Directors Report The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and other and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and regulatory requirements, as set out in the table below.
Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Share capital The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the requirements of shares allotted during the year, is shown in note 21 to the Group of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Details of the Companys financial financial statements.
instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk Purchase of own shares and liquidity risk are set out in full in note 20 on pages 119 to 123 The Directors, on behalf of the Company, after assessing the near-term of the financial statements.
capital needs of the business and the discount the Companys shares Results for the year ended 31 December 2014 were trading at in relation to the underlying core value of the asset The Companys results for the financial year are shown in the base, approved a share buyback programme of up to $100m worth consolidated financial statements on pages 98 to 154. of ordinary shares, in August 2014, following prior shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Directors Biographical details for the Directors of the Company who held office At 31 December 2014 a total of 15,522,066 shares with an aggregate during the year ended 31 December 2014 and at the date of this nominal value of 38,805, at a cost of 27.7m $44.2m, representing report are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Details of Directors service 2.614% of the share capital, had been repurchased at an average contracts or letters of appointment, their interests in the ordinary shares price per share, including transaction costs, of 178 pence of the Company and in any of the Companys long-term incentive and Shares repurchased under this authority are currently held as treasury other share schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report shares.
The shares held in treasury may be used to satisfy options which can be found on pages 69 to 93.
The Directors insurance and under the Companys various employee share schemes or cancelled.
indemnity provisions are set out on page 54.
During the year, no shares were cancelled and 611,952 shares were Substantial shareholders used to satisfy option exercises under employee share schemes.
As at 31 December 2014 and 18 March 2015, being the date of this Accordingly, as at 31 December 2014, 14,910,114 shares were held report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial in treasury.
holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company Number of % Number of % shares held as holding as at shares held as holding as at 31 December 31 December at 18 March at 18 March Name 2014 2014 1 2015 2015 2 Capital Group of Companies 75,863,412 13.10% 58,981,129 8.26% Kulczyk Investments S. A.
2 Calculated by reference to the issued share capital of the Company as at 18 March 2015.
66 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information The general authority to repurchase shares will expire at the Companys employer and where existing employees become unable to perform 2015 AGM.
The Directors presently intend that a resolution to renew their existing role due to a disability, it is the Companys policy to this authority will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
provide continuing employment under similar terms and conditions, wherever practicable, and to provide training and career development.
Shareholders rights As at 31 December 2014, the Company employed 133 people The rights and obligations in the Companys Articles of Association 2013: 119 people.
relating to the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Shareholder Information on pages 156 and 157.
The Articles can Corporate responsibility, business conduct and ethics and be found on the Companys website.
political donations The Company is committed to sound business conduct in its Dividend policy relationships with stakeholders shareholders, employees, customers, The Directors have not recommended a final dividend for the year business partners and suppliers, governments and regulators, ended 31 December 2014 and did not declare any interim dividends communities and the environment.
The Company seeks to conduct during the year.
The Directors do not anticipate that the Company will its operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect pay dividends in the near future.
The Directors envisage that, as the for the human rights and interests of our employees and, as such, Company advances the development of its operations, a dividend ensures that its anti-bribery policy is fully understood and implemented policy will be determined based on, and dependent on, the results by all employees and other key stakeholders.
The Board is also fully of the Companys operations, financial condition, cash requirements, committed to ensuring that high standards of health, safety and prospects, profits available for distribution and other factors deemed environmental practices are implemented and maintained by the to be relevant at the time.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on greenhouse gas emissions review on pages 38 to 45.
A breakdown of the Companys energy consumption and associated The Company has not made any political donations during the year.
greenhouse gas emissions during 2014 is set out in the Strategic Report The Companys policy is not to make political donations: however certain on page 40.
These figures have been calculated in accordance with socially responsible activities, which may include actions undertaken the guidance provided by the Department for Environment, Food through the Companys social and community related programmes, and Rural Affairs Defra and the Department of Energy and Climate attendance at conferences and receptions where communicating Change DECC and have been classified under the scopes set out in the Companys views might be vital to its business interests may the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable be inferred by some as making political donations as defined in the Developments Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
The Company does not consider such activities Diversity as being political donations but, nevertheless, ensures that all such A statement of the Companys policy on diversity is set out in the activities described in this report have been conducted in compliance Strategic Report on page 45 and the Board policy on diversity is with the Companys Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy.
summarised on page 65 of the Nomination Committee Report.
Directors responsibility statement Human rights The Directors responsibility statement is set out on pages 94 and 132 A statement of the Companys position on human rights is set out the Companys financial statements are included on pages 98 to 154. in the Strategic Report on page 45.
Change of control Employees The Company has entered into a number of commercial contracts The Company is committed to actively communicating with employees which might take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of in many ways, including regular briefings on financial performance the Company.
However, none of these is considered to be significant and training on health and safety matters.
The Company continues in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Company as a to have a diverse workforce comprising local employees, contractors whole.
Details of change of control clauses contained in the Service and expatriates at most sites.
The Company is an equal opportunities Agreements of the Executive Directors are set out on pages 78 and 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Directors Report continued of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Certain Company employees a tender by suppliers in advance of the 2014 audit, which concluded have agreements providing for compensation for loss of office or EY LLP should continue as the Companys Auditor for 2014. employment that occurs because of a change of control.
The Audit Committee have also proposed that resolutions to re-appoint All the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating EY as the Companys auditor and to authorise the Directors to set the to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided auditors remuneration be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 93.
Generally, Going concern outstanding awards under the Foundation Incentive Plan, the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to 2006 Plan and the Deferred Share Plan will vest in full and become affect its future development, performance and position are set out exercisable on or before a change of control.
The Remuneration in the strategic review on pages 2 to 45.
The financial position of Committee may allow outstanding awards under the Long-Term the Group, consisting of cash resources of $1,173 million, its cash Incentive Plan LTIP to vest to the extent that any performance flows and its liquidity position which are described in the financial condition is satisfied at the date of that event and, unless the statements on pages 98 to 154.
In addition, note 20 to the financial Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, such level of vesting statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes will be reduced to take account of the fact that the award is vesting for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: early.
LTIP awards may instead be exchanged for equivalent details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its awards over shares in the acquiring company.
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Corporate governance statement In making their going concern assessment, the Directors have The corporate governance statement on pages 46 to 55, in accordance considered Group budgets and cash flow forecasts, which include with Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Rule 9.8.
6 the impact of the completed acquisition of Salamander Energy plc 5 and 6 of the Listing Rules, forms part of this Directors Report.
subsequent to year-end for a period of at least 12 months.
As a result Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors of this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Directors Report are listed on pages 48 and 49.
Having made the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditor, each of basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
these directors confirms that: To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no Post balance sheet events information that is information that is needed by the Companys A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out in note 31 auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the to the Group financial statements.
Companys auditors are unaware By order of the Board Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Nick Cooper information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Chief Executive Officer aware of that information 18 March 2015 Auditor Registered office: Details of the Companys policy on external auditor rotation are Level 4, 123 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6DE set out on page 58 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Further to Company registered in England and Wales No.
5047425 provision C. 3.7 of the Code, listed companies are expected to put their external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
In 2013, the Audit Committee undertook a review of audit services including 68 Ophir Energy plc
