Corporate Governance report The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and fully recognises the benefits it brings to making the best decisions for the Companys future.
Together with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary, Leadership the Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings, ensuring that the decision-making process adopted by the Board allows for open The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the continuing and constructive debate.
The Chairman works closely with the success of the Company.
To achieve this, the Board provides leadership Chief Executive Officer, providing support and advice as well as to the business and, either directly or through the operation of ensuring that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are itsCommittees and delegating authority, brings an independent effectively implemented.
judgement on all matters of strategy, performance, risk management, resources, standards of conduct and accountability.
The Board also The Chairman was considered to be independent in character and leads in setting the values and the culture of theCompany.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for Dr Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in June 2011. its approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to He is responsible for managing the day-to-day business of the Company, itsCommittees.
proposing and developing strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of a strong and experienced The Board undertook a review of the schedule of matters specifically executive team, implementing the decisions of the Board and its reserved for the Board the Schedule in 2014.
Underpinning this, the Chief Executive Officer is supported that only minor amendments were required to those matters: principally by the Executive Committee consisting of the Chief Operating Officer to formally note that the Board was responsible for the anti-bribery and the Director of Finance, in addition to other members of the policy, that all country entries and exits were subject to prior Board senior management team.
approval and revisions to the financial limits at which Board approval is required, to better reflect the size and operations of the Company Role of the Chairman since the Board first adopted the Schedule in 2012.
Other specific The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board.
responsibilities are delegated to the Committees of the Board, In particular, he will: each of which has clear written Terms of Reference.
The Terms Cultivate a boardroom culture of honesty and openness which of Reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility encourages appropriate debate and challenges amongst theBoard.
and Nomination Committees are available on the Companys Ensure that the Board and its Committees operate in a way that website at www.
conforms to expected high standards of corporate governance.
Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Set the style and tone of Board discussions, promote constructive The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer debate and ensure an accurate, timely and clear flow of information are clearly established, separate and have been set out inwriting.
Lead the Nomination Committee in the appointment of an Nicholas Smith was appointed as Chairman of the Company in effective and complementary Board, review succession planning 2009, having been a Non-Executive Director since 2007.
As Chairman, and evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees and he is responsible for the leadership and effective running of the individual Directors.
Board as well as for ensuring that it plays a full and constructive part Foster effective Board relationships between the Executive and in the development and determination of the Companys strategy.
Non-Executive members, support and advise the Chief Executive Officer generally and in the implementation of agreed strategy.
Ensure effective communication with the Companys stakeholders and that their views are understood by the Board.
50 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Non-Executive Directors length of service as at 31 December 2014 03 years 3 36 years 1 6 years 1 Role of the Chief Executive Officer approximately two days per month, plus preparation time, each is The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day required to confirm that they are able to devote such time as is management of the business within the authorities delegated necessary for the satisfactory performance of their duties.
In particular, he will: Ronald Blakely Date of appointment: July 2011 Propose, develop and supervise the Companys strategy and Tenure from appointment to 2015 AGM: Less than 4 years overall commercial objectives and ensure that agreed strategies Considered to be independent: Yes are implemented by the senior management team through the sub-committees of the Executive Committee.
Alan Booth Build and develop an appropriate organisational structure for the Date of appointment: April 2013 Company, establish processes and systems and plan resourcing Tenure from appointment to 2015 AGM: Less than 3 years to ensure that the Company has the capability to achieve its aims.
Considered to be independent: Yes Lead the Executive and senior management team including Vivien Gibney undertaking appraisals, reviewing development needs and making Date of appointment: August 2013 recommendations to the Remuneration Committee with regard Tenure from appointment to 2015 AGM: Less than 2 years to remuneration where appropriate.
Considered to be independent: Yes Promote and conduct the affairs of the Company with the Lyndon Powell highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Date of appointment: October 2007 Progress the Companys communication programme with shareholders Tenure from appointment to 2015 AGM: Less than 8 years and ensure that financial results, business strategies and targets are Considered to be independent: Yes appropriately communicated to the Companys investors.
William Bill Schrader Non-Executive Directors Date of appointment : February 2013 The independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of knowledge Tenure from appointment to 2015 AGM: Less than 3 years from the Oil and Gas industry together with experience from other Considered to be independent: Yes sectors to the Board and its Committees.
Through their contributions, they provide the Company with independent views on matters of The Board considers that all its Non-Executive Directors at year end, strategy, performance, risk and conduct.
Non-Executive Directors are namely Ronald Blakely, Alan Booth, Vivien Gibney, Lyndon Powell appointed for an initial three-year term, although subject to annual and Bill Schrader, were independent in character and judgement re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM with the expectation and free from relationships or circumstances that might affect their that a further three-year term will follow, subject to review by the judgement.
Carol Bell joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Board.
Following a second term, consideration as to whether a on 2 March 2015 and is also considered to be similarly independent.
serving independent Non-Executive Director should be recommended for reappointment for a third term is subject to the review of the Throughout 2014 and up to the date of publication of this report, Chairman in consultation with the Chief ExecutiveOfficer.
a majority of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office during normal business hours.
While the expected time commitment from Non-Executive Directors is set out in their letter of appointment as Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Corporate Governance report continued Senior Independent Director Effectiveness Ronald Blakely is the Senior Independent Director and was in place throughout the year.
The Senior Independent Director is charged Board composition with maintaining a communication channel between the Chairman At 31 December 2014 the Board was composed of the Chairman, and the Non-Executive Directors and for leading the Non-Executive two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors in the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The following changes to the Board took place during In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders the year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this report: who have concerns that have not, or cannot, be resolved through the 28 February 2014 normal channels of the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer or John Lander retired as an independent Non-Executive Director.
where such contact is inappropriate.
The specific terms of the role 10 September 2014 of the Senior Independent Director have been set out in writing Bill Higgs was appointed Chief Operating Officer.
and approved by the Board.
17 October 2014 Company Secretary Lisa Mitchell stood down as Chief Financial Officer.
As the Group has grown significantly since it initially listed, the Board 4 November 2014 decided that it was appropriate to separate the roles of the General Dennis McShane stood down as Director of Corporate Strategy.
Counsel and the Company Secretary.
As a result Chandrika Kher was 2 March 2015 appointed as Company Secretary in March 2014, having previously Carol Bell was appointed an independent Non-Executive Director.
been the Deputy Company Secretary.
As previously announced, Lyndon Powell will be retiring from the Board Activity Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM in May, having served more Key areas of focus for the Board in 2014 included: than seven years.
Strategy The Board believes that this balance of Executive and Non-Executive Risk reviews Directors provides for high quality discussion and consideration of Acquisitions and new business development the key issues concerning the Company.
Share buyback programme Board restructure The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure that the Drilling campaigns Directors have the required skills, knowledge and experience to meet Governance and Board performance the needs of the business.
Further information on how this is achieved Investor feedback and communication and consideration of this in the year, is contained in the Nomination Corporate Responsibility, including health and safety, security, Committee Report on pages 64 and 65.
Biographical details for each environmental and community related projects of the Directors who served at the end of the year and at the date of this report are set out on pages 48 and 49.
During 2015, the Board expects these areas of focus to remain broadly similar, with the exception of the need for Board restructuring.
Board composition at 31 December 2014 Non-Executive Chairman 1 Executive Directors 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 52 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Meeting attendance Board process The Board held four formal meetings during 2014, as well as a Directors are provided with full and timely information before meeting to consider the strategic direction of the business.
In addition, meetings, including detailed financial information where applicable.
six further meetings were called at short notice in order to consider The Chairman agrees the agenda for Board meetings in consultation specific items of business.
Details of the attendance of all Directors with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary, and who served during the year ended 31 December 2014 at the formal formal minutes are prepared to record all decisions made.
Minutes and short-notice Board meetings are shown in the table below: of Board and Committee meetings are formally approved at the following meetings.
In the meantime, draft minutes are circulated to each Director or Committee member as appropriate and as soon Scheduled Meetings Board held at as practicable after the conclusion of the meeting.
meetings short notice Minutes of Committee meetings may be made available to other Nicholas Smith, Chairman 4 4 6 6 Board members on request and as appropriate.
If a Director objects Nick Cooper, Chief Executive Officer 4 4 6 6 to a particular proposal, this will be recorded in the minutes of the 1 Bill Higgs, Chief Operating Officer 1 1 5 5 relevant meeting.
Ronald Blakely, Non-Executive Director 4 4 6 6 In August 2013, the Board approved the establishment of the Alan Booth, Non-Executive Director 4 4 6 6 Technical Advisory Committee which would amongst many other Vivien Gibney, Non-Executive Director 4 4 6 6 matters consider the technical aspects of any operational business Lyndon Powell, Non-Executive Director 4 4 6 6 proposals requiring Board approval and advise the Board if there are Bill Schrader, Non-Executive Director 4 4 6 6 any significant technical risks or concerns that should be taken into consideration when considering any such proposals.
The Committee Former Directors also ensures the technical activities of the Company are consistent 2 Lisa Mitchell, Executive Director 3 3 1 1 with the overall strategy of the Company.
The Board recognises that 3 Dennis McShane, Executive Director 3 3 1 2 while the Committee is not a requirement of the Code, nonetheless, 4 it enhances the Boards ability to approve appropriate business John Lander, Non-Executive Director 0 0 0 0 proposals of a technical nature pertaining to the Oil and Gas industry.
1 Bill Higgs was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 10 September 2014.
During the course of 2014, the Committee undertook the following: 2 Lisa Mitchell stood down from the Board on 17 October 2014.
3 Dennis McShane stood down from the Board on 4 November 2014. a review of the Companys operating assets, evaluated new business 4 John Lander retired from the Board on 28 February 2014. developments, acted as technical advisers to the Board and reviewed and recommended changes to members of the Committee.
The The Non-Executive Directors met with the Chairman four times during Committee is comprised of three members and meets at least four the year, without any Executives present, to discuss the performance times a year and as otherwise required.
The Chair of the Committee of the Executive Directors.
In 2014, the Chairman introduced a is Alan Booth and other members are the Chief Operating Officer post-Board meeting review process, whereby the performance of replacing the Chief Executive Officer as a member on 17 November the Chairman is discussed, led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Committees Terms of Reference are Formal quarterly meetings also take place between the Chairman, available on the Companys website at www.
com the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer.
These meetings focus on governance and operating activities in order to enhance the ability of the Senior Independent Director to fulfil the independence mandate of that role and aid communication.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Corporate governance report continued Risk management against a any liability incurred by or attaching to the Director or The Board believes that effective risk management is crucial to the Officer in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or Companys strategic objectives and long-term success.
The Board breach of trust by them in relation to the Company or any associated has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is effectively managed.
company: and b any other liability incurred by or attaching to The Companys approach to risk and the Companys principal risks the Director or Officer in the actual or purported execution and or are detailed further on pages 18 to 21.
The Audit Committee reviews discharge of their duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of the effectiveness of the risk management process on the Boards their powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with their behalf, and its approach to this can be found in the Audit Committee duties, powers or office other than certain excluded liabilities including Report on pages 56 to 60. to the extent that such an indemnity is not permitted by law.
Board Evaluation Appointment, induction and training A full external Board evaluation was carried out in October 2014 The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate induction and Socia Limited was once again appointed to undertake the review.
is given to new Board members.
The induction programme is specifically This follows a full Board appraisal in 2012 and a comprehensive tailored to the needs of the incoming Director and will include training appraisal of the Board Committees in 2013.
The aim of the 2014 on the business and strategy of the Company, copies of Board policies evaluation was to ensure that the Board remains fully compliant with and procedures, meetings with senior management and site visits, the Code, to assess how the Board currently operates, and provide an where appropriate.
Further details of Bill Higgs induction programme opportunity to improve how it operates in the future.
The objective is set out in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 64 and 65. of the 2014 evaluation was to address three key areas: Ongoing development and training is provided to Directors at Board and Ensure that the Board is fit to meet the demands of a fast Committee meetings.
During 2014 the Directors received training on: developing business: Regulatory developments on the UK Listing Rules: Ensure that the Board continues to have the appropriate balance Regulatory developments on Corporate Governance pertaining to of skills and experience built into its respective succession plans: and risk management, audit committee reporting, board effectiveness To continue developing the dynamics of the Board so that it and succession planning: and remains an effective decision-making body.
The external facilitator conducted interviews with each member of The Board and Committees expect to receive regular updates and the Board and the Company Secretary, attended Board meetings briefings on new legislation and changes to best practice on corporate and was furnished with Board minutes and Terms of Reference for governance from, inter alia, the Company Secretary, the Groups each Board Committee and other documentation to facilitate the General Counsel on anti-bribery and corruption matters, the Companys evaluation.
The resulting report, including recommendations for Auditor and, in terms of Directors remuneration related matters, action, was then presented to the Board.
from the Companys Remuneration Consultants.
The principal conclusion from the 2014 Board evaluation was that Independent advice the Board operated effectively and complied fully with the provisions All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company of the Code.
Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby any Insurance and indemnification Director may take independent professional advice at the Companys The Company provides its Directors and Officers with the benefit expense on any matter in the furtherance of their duties.
of appropriate insurance, which is reviewed annually.
In addition, Directors and Officers have received an indemnity from the Company 54 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Re-election Relations with shareholders In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all continuing Directors of the Company offer themselves for annual re-election at the AGM.
Dialogue with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining External directorships good relations with all the Companys shareholders.
Nick Cooper, The Company has adopted a policy which allows the Executive the Chief Executive Officer, is primarily responsible for investor Directors to accept directorship of other quoted companies provided relations, supported by Executive Directors, senior management that they have obtained the prior permission of the Chairman.
and the Investor Relations function.
Over 300 investor meetings As set out in the Code, no Executive Director would be permitted and calls were hosted during the year.
Additionally, Nicholas Smith, to take on more than one Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 the Chairman, and Ronald Blakely, the Senior Independent Director company or the chairmanship of such a company.
and Audit Committee Chairman met with major institutional During the year ended 31 December 2014, none of the Companys shareholders during the first quarter of 2015 to listen to their views Executive Directors held directorships in any other quoted company.
on the Companys strategic direction, developments since listing and the executive management team.
This process, which was well Conflicts of interest received by investors and produced positive responses on the Every Director has a duty to avoid a conflict between their personal Company and its management team, is ongoing.
interests and those of the Company.
The provisions of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association All financial and regulatory announcements, as well as other important permit the Board to authorise situations identified by a Director in business announcements, are published on the Investors section which he or she has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that of the Companys website and stakeholders can subscribe to receive conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
news updates by email by registering online on the website at www.
The Board continues to undertake regular reviews of the outside positions and interests or arrangements with third parties held by Annual General Meeting each Director and, where appropriate, to authorise those situational All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General conflicts following consideration.
Notwithstanding the above, each Meeting when they are given the opportunity to ask questions on Director is aware of their duty to notify the Board should there be the financial report and accounts and on the general business of any material change to their positions or interests during the year.
Directors do not participate in Board discussion or decisions which The 2015 AGM will be held on 20 May 2015 at the offices of relate to any matter in which they have or may have a conflict Linklaters LLP, 1 Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
Full details of the ofinterest.
business of the AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting and sent to those shareholders who have elected to receive hard copy notifications, together with any related documentation, at least 20 clear business days before the date of the meeting in accordance with the requirement of the Code.
The Notice of Meeting together with a copy of the 2014 Annual Report will also be made available at: www.
