Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Corporate Governance At this years AGM, Mike Brady will not seekre-election asaNon-Executive Director having served for an extended The Board is committed to ensuring that period of time.
The Board is inthe process of identifying highstandards of corporate governance aNon-Executive Director with a strong scientific aremaintained by the Group.
background to serve on the Board as an Independent The Board endorses the main and supporting Non-Executive Director.
principlesand the provisions set out in the UK Resolutions for the election of Directors will beput Corporate Governance Code theGovernance toShareholders at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
Code except as detailed below.
Thiswill continue to deliver a Board which meets the The Boards policies and procedures are documented requirements of Provision B.
inthe Board Reference File that sets out the roles anddelegated authorities applying to the Directors, Compliance theBoard and the Board Committees.
The Board The Board considers that, throughout the period under Reference File isreviewed annually by the Board as review, theGroup has complied with the provisions partof theannual governance review undertaken recommended in the UKCorporate Governance Code bytheChairman.
June 2010 and September 2012, other than in respect of: Provision D. 2.1: Nigel Keen was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until the Companys AGM in September 2013.
However, as more fully explained below, Board constitution the Group became compliant with this provision when In late 2010, prior to Oxford Instruments promotion Thomas Geitner took over as Remuneration Committee tothe FTSE 250, the Nomination Committee reviewed Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM: and itsBoard Development programme and put in place amulti-year plan to allow for an orderly refreshing of Provision B.
1.2: Up until the AGM in September 2013 itsNon-Executive Directors over this extended period.
less than halfthe Board, excluding the Chairman, Thisprogramme is under annual review.
The Board comprised Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Development programme ensures that the constitution Following the changes described above, the ofthe Board is compliant with the Governance Code constitution of the Board has been compliant since following the Companys admission to the FTSE 250. theAGM inSeptember 2013.
In line with the programme, Jennifer Allerton has joined Preservation of value the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in The basis on which the Group generates and preserves June 2013 and MikeHughes stepped down from the Read more in the value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering Board at last years AGM.
Since 2010, the Company has StrategicReport the objectives of the Group are to be found in the been through a strong period of growth and the Executive Turn to pages Strategic Report.
team has reorganised the business into a divisional structure.
10 and 12 In light ofthe Groups new divisional structure, the Nomination Committee recommended that the Executive representation on the Board be the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Accordingly, Charles Holroyd also stepped down from the Board at lastyearsAGM.
Changes in the Board Joining the Board Retiring from the Board Key Entering Board Leaving Board Jennifer Allerton Mike Hughes Charles Holroyd Mike Brady Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director Chairman and Non-Executive Director Joined: 10 06 13 Retired: 10 09 13 Retired: 10 09 13 Retires: 09 09 14 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 33 www.
com Corporate Governance continued The details of the way the Board operates, including a Board of Directors and managementstructure schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, Board of Directors areset out in the Board Reference File.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Board retains control over strategy, investments and TheDirectors biographies and details of length of service capital expenditure, and limits the decisions which can be areshown on pages 28 to29.
All the Directors have taken bymanagement in the areas of strategic and financial written letters of appointment that have been approved management and reporting, capital structure, corporate bythe Board and which are available for inspection at actions, mergers and acquisitions, major contracts and theCompanys Annual General Meeting.
other commitments, litigation and regulatory proceedings, remuneration and share incentive plans.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Where the Board delegates authority to management Thedivision of responsibilities between the role of itison a structured basis, which requires that proper Chairman and the Chief Executive has been set out management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
inwriting and agreed by the Board.
The Board meets on a regular basis, at least nine times The Board has delegated Group responsibility for the ayear, and otherwise as required.
Of the nine regular management ofhealth, safety and the environment meetings, typically six are held at Group locations and the toJonathan Flint and he reports to the Board on these remaining three are held by telephone conference.
Board meetings are held on an as needed basis and during the year an additional four single issue meetings were held to consider matters relating to proposed acquisitions.
The Board members length of service Board also had an off site meeting specifically to discuss the Companys strategic direction during the year.
Nigel Keen 15 years Board meetings involve reviews of financial and business Jonathan Flint 9 years performance against the plan approved by the Board.
Risk 7 years Kevin Boyd management review, both at Group level and also for each 19 years Sir Mike Brady of the business units, is embedded in the reporting system.
Jock Lennox 5 years On a rotating basis, the Board receives presentations from the business units and key functional areas enabling it to Thomas Geitner 1 year explore specific issues in more detail.
Any matter requiring 1 year Jennifer Allerton adecision by the Board will be supported by a pre-circulated paper analysing all relevant aspects of the proposal and recommending acourse of action.
Management Board Board papers are distributed in advance of therelevant The Board delegates management of the business to meeting in sufficient time to allow the Directors to prepare theChief Executive.
To assist in this, the Chief Executive formeetings.
Minutes of Committee meetings are circulated has created a Management Board that consists of the tothe relevant Directors.
In the very few instances when a Executive Directors, the Group Operations Director and Director has not been able to attend Board or Committee theGroup Human Resources & Brand Director and the meetings, his comments on the papers to be considered Divisional Managing Directors.
atthemeeting are communicated in advance to the The Management Board meets monthly either physically relevantChairman.
orby video ortelephone conference and focuses on The Non-Executive Directors meet without theExecutive Group-wide performance, strategy and risk management.
Directors at least annually, with the Chairman leading Operation of the Board these meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet The Board is responsible to Shareholders for delivering annually without the Chairman in attendance.
The Deputy sustainable incremental Shareholder value through Chairman chairs these meetings.
entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of controls The Company Secretary and the Company Secretarys Office for managing risk.
The Board sets the Groups strategy, are responsible for implementing Board procedures and for maintains the policy and decision making framework in advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
which this strategy is implemented, verifies that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet strategic aims, monitors performance against key financial and non-financial indicators, oversees the system of risk management and sets values and standards in governance matters.
34 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Board balance and independence The Governance Code requires the Board should His technical expertise as the only Non-Executive Director beof sufficient size that the balance of skills and from a scientific profession brings a depth of technical experience is appropriate for the requirements of the expertise to Board discussions.
As a result of his tenure as business and that there is a balance of Executive and a Director of the Company, the Board has, in the light of Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or guidance by the Governance Code, determined that he small group of individuals can dominate the Boards should not be considered independent.
Mike is a member decision making.
The composition ofthe Board and of the Nomination Committee.
Mike will be retiring from the combination of diverse backgrounds and the Board immediately following the AGM in September.
expertise of the Non-Executive Directors meet Jennifer Allerton was appointed to the Board as an theseprinciples.
Independent Non-Executive Director on 11 June 2013.
Jennifer is a graduate of Imperial College, London and Nigel Keen, Chairman, has been a member of the Boardsince February 1999.
He has a degree in engineering hasa masters degree in physics from the University of Manitoba and is a chartered engineer.
from Cambridge University, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and of the Institute of Engineering She has extensive international business experience and Technology and has been involved in the formation whichstrengthens the skills and expertise of the Board.
and development of high technology businesses for more Jennifer is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and than 30 years.
He fulfilled the independence criteria at the NominationCommittees.
time of his appointment as set out in the Governance Code.
Thomas Geitner was appointed to the Board as an Nigel Keen also serves as Chairman of Oxford Instruments Pension Trustee Limited, the Trustee of theCompanys UK Independent Non-Executive Director on 15 January 2013.
He is a graduate of the Technische Universitt Mnchen defined benefit pension scheme.
The Board of the Company and the Board of the Trustee tothe Pension Scheme have each independently considered Thomas has extensive international experience in the whether it is appropriate to have the Chairman of the technology and engineering sectors, having spent more Company as Chairman to the Board of the Trustee of the than 30 years in businesses operating across the globe.
Pension Scheme, notwithstanding the potential conflicts Having worked in a number of global companies he ofinterest inherent in the same person holding both these understands the importance ofremuneration connecting positions, and they each have unanimously confirmed that with strategy to appropriately incentivise the executiveteam.
they believe that it is in the interest of all parties for this The Board believes that his skills, experience and knowledge tocontinue.
make Thomas well suited to run the Remuneration Committee He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and and accordingly he was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the conclusion ofthe AGM amember of the Remuneration Committee.
Thomasisa member of the Audit, He was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until Remuneration .
the conclusion of the 2013 AGM as the Board considered thatwhilst the Company was a SmallCap company it was Jock Lennox was appointed to the Board as an appropriate and necessary for the Chairman of the Board Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2009. to also be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Priorto that he was a Senior Audit Partner at EY where InJanuary 2013, the Board appointed Thomas Geitner hegained extensive experience advising clients in a variety asan Independent Non-Executive Director with the of industries on financial reporting, financing, transactions appropriate mix of skills to take over the Chair of the and international expansion.
Remuneration Committee which he did once the The Board believes that Jocks skills, experience and  for the 2012 13 reporting knowledge enhance and maintain an effective Board and yearwere completed.
provide a well qualified Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mike Brady, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Jock is Chairman of theAudit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Director, has been a member of the Board since June 1995.
He is Professor of Oncological Imaging in the Department He was appointed Senior Independent Director at the close of Oncology at the University of Oxford, having retired as of 2013s AGM when Mike Hughes retired from the Board.
BP Professor of Information Engineering at that university, and is one of the UKsleadingengineers.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 35 www.
com Corporate Governance continued Board balance and independence continued Independence of Non-Executive Directors In the opinion of the Board, Jock Lennox, Thomas Geitner and Jennifer Allerton are independent.
Mike Brady is no Composition of the Board: longer considered independent in accordance with the Independent vs. non-independent guidelines set out in the Governance Code and is due to retire from the Board at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
50% The Board considers that they are each independent in Independent members character and judgement and do not have relationships of the board which are likely to affect theirjudgement.
This opinion is rising to 60% after the AGM based on current participation and performance on both the Board and Board Committees including consideration of the length of service at Oxford Instruments plc.
Independent 3 non-independent 3 Term of appointment of Non-Executive Directors In line with the Governance Code the Chairman is excluded from thesenumbers Each Non-Executive Director was appointed for an initial term of three years.
7.1 of the Governance Code, the Board has determined that all Directors of the Board are to be subject to annual re-election by Shareholders and accordingly the appropriate resolutions will be put to Shareholders attheCompanys forthcoming AGM.
Board development and evaluation Board development Board evaluation On appointment, Directors undertake an induction In light of the provisions of Section B.
6.2 of the Governance processwhich isdesigned to develop knowledge and Code which expects that an externally facilitated evaluation understanding of the Groups businesses through visits of the Board becarried out at least triennially, John Stopford, tovarious Group operating sites, discussion ofrelevant an emeritus professor of the London Business School, technology, as well as product demonstrations, briefings carried out a light touch external evaluation of the from management and familiarisation with investor governance review process in 2011.
He found that the perceptions of theGroup.
This induction is supported by process described below effectively reviews the mechanics briefing papers prepared bythe Company Secretary.
of theoperation of the Board and he found the written statement ongovernance each Director completes a very The operating business units senior management teams helpful input.
Hisobservation was that the Board was present to theBoard on a regular basis.
Directors are encouraged to meet individual members of the senior management team and havedone so during theyear under review.
The Board has sought proposals from external providers to undertake an external Board Throughout the year, Non-Executive Directors attend Oxford effectiveness review.
This will be carried out Instruments events, exhibitions and award presentations.
overthesummer of 2014 and will be reported The Company Secretary and her office act as advisers to onin next years report.
the Board onmatters concerning governance and ensure compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have access to this advice and a procedure also exists for Directors to take independent professional advice at theGroups expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Theappointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
36 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Director has prepared awritten statement concerning For the year ended 31 March 2014 the Board has conducted its annual effectiveness evaluation exercise, including a governance of the Company and has discussed the statement with the Chairman at the individual one-to-one interviews specific review of the effectiveness of its principal committees and members.
This was an internal exercise under the which the Chairman holds with each Director.
The Chief Executive is also involved in the process by giving his input control of the Chairman using a detailed questionnaire completed by all Directors in relation to the key areas of on the way the Board helps him in his role.
The output from these evaluations allows the Chairman to review Board accountability and the arrangements in place to enable effective focus on these areas.
Topics covered objectively the overall balance and effectiveness of the included Group strategy, performance, delegation and Board and will be used as an input to the independent accountability, success, development and reward, Board review currently in process.
The Non-Executive Directors and Committee composition, Board induction and training, meet annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
internal control and risk management.
In addition, each Attendance at meetings No one other than the Committee Chairman and members is entitled to be present at a meeting of the Nomination, Audit or Remuneration Committee, but others may attend by invitation of the Committee.
No Director votes on matters where he has a conflict of interest.
Further details of the individual Committees activities are described below.
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, Board and principal Board Committee meetings for the year to 31 March 2014: Main Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 13 6 6 3 Nigel Keen 13 6 6 2 Jonathan Flint 13 6 2 1 Kevin Boyd 13 6 1 1 Mike Brady 13 6 6 3 Jock Lennox 13 6 6 3 Thomas Geitner 13 5 6 3 Jennifer Allerton 10 4 3 2 Charles Holroyd 5 3 1 Mike Hughes 5 3 2 3 Note: 1 Attended by invitation.
2 Charles Holroyd and Mike Hughes resigned on 10 September 2013.
3 Jennifer Allerton was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2013.
Board committees The Board has formed the following Committees: considers potential candidates and recommends appointments Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Administration.
of new Directors to the Board.
The appointments are based onmerit and against objective criteria including time Membership of Board Committees, which is set out on availableand the commitment that will be required of pages 28 to 29, is determined by the Board and is reviewed thepotentialDirector.
The written terms of reference of the Board Committees are reviewed annually by each Committee There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to the Board, and the Board and are available on the Companys website at www.
com investors and from the the prime responsibility for which is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
Each appointment process begins Company on request.
They will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
with an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience existing on the Board that is effected through Nomination Committee aseries of one-on-one meetings between the Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Chairman and Directors.
The Nomination Committee Directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the takesexternal advice when considered appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in the formal selection and appointment of Directors and considers succession planning for the Board.
It also Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 37 www.
com Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Board committees continued recommending to the Board the remuneration packages Nomination Committee continued forExecutive Directors and the bonus and share option During the year, the sub-committee, established by the strategy for the Groups executive management.
Nomination Committee to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and to identify Independent professional advice is sought when considered appropriate candidates for Non-Executive Director positions necessary.
Under its terms of reference the Chairman of the on the Board, has continued its work.
Accordingly, using Board may be Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman information it has gathered, taking into account both diversity and the Executive Directors are responsible for fixing the within the Board and the balance of skills on the Board, it remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and the has drawn up descriptions of the role and desired capabilities Non-Executive Directors are responsible for fixing the for candidates to help in the search of new Non-Executive remuneration ofthe Chairman.
With the help of executive search consultants The Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration Korn Ferry, the Committee developed shortlists of qualifying Committee meetings as deemed appropriate, for example candidates.
Candidates met with the Chairman and the when consideration isbeing given to the performance of Deputy Chairman and a final selection of potential appointees other Executive Directors and onsignificant Group-wide met several Directors individually.
Following these meetings, changes in salary structure and terms and conditions the Nomination Committee considered each Directors affecting other employees at senior executive level.
feedback and made a final recommendation to the Board concerning any further appointment.
Following this process, the Committee has during the year: Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are included in theDirectors recommended the appointment of Jennifer Allerton Remuneration Report set out onpages 47 to 65. tothe Board asan Independent Non-Executive Director.
Her appointment to theBoard commenced 11 June 2013: and Audit Committee has started the process of identifying a Non-Executive Director witha strong scientific background to serve The Audit Committee comprises all the Independent onthe Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors and its chairman is Jock Lennox.
Other members of the Board, senior management The Nomination Committee, taking into account the andtheexternal auditor are invited toattend all or part performance of the individual, has considered whether ofany meetings.
The Board has determined that, as a each of the Non-Executive Directors appointments should Chartered Accountant and former Senior Audit Partner be renewed and has confirmed that they should.
atEY, JockLennox is the designated financial expert.
The Nomination Committee has also carried out its annual The Audit Committees main responsibilities are focusedon review of the performance of the Chief Executive and financial reporting, external audit, internal audit, internal succession planning within the business.
controls and financial risk management.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises all the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman Fulldetails of the operation and the work of ofthe Board.
Thomas Geitner, appointed to the Board theAudit Committee are included in the Audit inJanuary 2013, worked closely with Nigel Keen on Committee Report set out on pages 41 to 46. remuneration matters until he took over as Chairman ofthe Remuneration Committee at the end of the Companys AGM on 10September 2013.
The Board considers that Administration Committee Thomas, with his experience of working atsenior levels The Administration Committee consists of a minimum inglobal companies, including high technology companies, oftwo Directors and deals with items of a routine and has anappropriate blend of skills to make a successful administrative nature.
The Board receives a summary Chairmanof the Remuneration Committee.
Prior to that, outlining all matters decided by the Administrative the Chairman of the Board, Nigel Keen, who fulfilled the Committee since the previous Board Meeting.
independence criteria at the time of his appointment as setout in the Governance Code, was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as the Board considered that ina SmallCap company it was essential that the Chairman beinvolved in setting remuneration policy.
The members ofthe Committee areappointed by the Board.
38 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information themanagement team assigned.
On a regular basis each Annual General Meeting AGM business reviews and updates its risk summary which is The AGM is an opportunity for the Board to meet then reported to the Chief Executive.
At its AGM, the Group complies with changes or arises, the Managing Director of the business theprovisions of the Governance Code relating to the reports this in writing to the Chief Executive at which time disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions there is a discussion on the adequacy of the mitigating andthe attendance of Committee Chairmen.
arranges for the Annual Reports and Financial Statements and related papers to be posted on its website and, where In addition, the Board considers risks to the Groups Shareholders have elected to receive paper copies, posted strategic objectives which are not addressed within the to Shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days Groups businesses and develops appropriate actions forconsideration prior to the AGM.
The next AGM will tomanage and mitigate these risks.
beheld on 9 September 2014 at the Groups offices in TubneyWoods, Oxfordshire.
The management of each business is responsible Investor relations for risk management and control within The Group places considerable importance on regular theirbusiness communications with its Shareholders with whom it has anongoing programme of dialogue.
All Shareholders areencouraged to participate in the AGM atwhich the Internal audit and assurance Chairman and Chief Executive present an overview of The Groups Internal Audit function has responsibility for theGroups business and review the results and make independently assessing the adequacy and effectiveness comments on strategy and current business activity.
ofthe management of significant risk areas and acts as athird line of defence behind operational managements The Non-Executive Directors meet informally with front line and own assurance activities.
Further details Shareholders both before and after the AGM and respond ofthis are set out in the Audit Committee Report on toShareholder queries and requests.
The Chairman and pages41 to 46. the Senior Independent Director make themselves availableto meet Shareholders, as required.
Internal control All Group announcements are posted on the Group website, The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving www.
com investors, as soon as they the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls are released.
The Investor Relations section of the website operated by the Group, including financial, operational provides financial and other information on the Group and compliance controls and risk management.
The andthe website itself carries additional information management of each business is responsible for risk ontheGroups products, services and markets.
management and control within their business and, through the Management Board, implementing Board Risk management policies on risk and control.
Within the Group there is an ongoing embedded process Read more about The internal control framework includes central direction, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Principal Risks and oversight and risk management of the key activities within risks faced by the Group.
Day-to-day management of this Uncertainties the Group.
As part of this framework there is a financial process has been delegated by the Board to the Executive Turn to pages planning process which includes a three year planning Directors.
Detail of the process is set out in the Audit 16 and 17 model and the preparation of an annual budget approved Committee Report on pages 41 to 46.
This process has by the Board.
The results of the business units are reported been in place for the year under review and up to the monthly and compared with the budget.
Forecasts are also dateof approval of the Annual Report and Financial prepared monthly.
Itisregularly reviewed by the Board of Directors and accords with the Turnbull principles.
Control activities include policies and practices covering appropriate authorisation and approval of transactions, Details of all major risks identified and the mitigating actions theapplication of financial reporting standards and reviews in place are reported to and reviewed by the Board.
The of significant judgements and financial performance.
Principal Risks page 16 gives an overview of the major Financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
A standard and risk activities across the Group are reviewed by the process is in place throughout the Group that requires the Groups assurance function.
senior management of each business to identify significant business risks and to classify them both as to probability and potential impact.
Once identified, mitigating action, where possible, is formulated and responsibility within Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 39 www.
com Corporate Governance continued the Board approves all acquisition and divestment proposals Internal control continued and there are established procedures for theplanning, The internal control framework complies with the Turnbull approval and monitoring of capital expenditure: guidance and has been designed to manage rather than eliminate material risksto the achievement of strategic and for all major investments the performance of at least business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and the first 12 months against the original proposal is not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or reviewed by the Board: loss.
Because of inherent limitations, internal controls over each Group site, except for representative sales offices, financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements.
is required to submit a self-assessment internal control There has been no material change to the Groups internal questionnaire annually: control framework during the period covered by this Annual Report.
internal audit is carried out through a system of regular reviews ofthe financial and non-financial internal controls The key components designed to provide effective internal at each site andthis is further reported on in the Audit control within the Group are as follows: Committee Report onpages 41 to 46.
These reviews there is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the are coordinated by the Group Audit & Risk Manager: Board for decision: other than these matters, the Board the Board receives regular updates on treasury, tax, delegates to the ChiefExecutive and reviews the delegation property, pensions, insurance, litigation, human of authorities throughout the management structure: resources, corporate social responsibility, business the Groups management structure is headed up by ethics and health and safety matters: theManagement Board.
Its membership comprises the authorisation limits are set at appropriate levels Executive Directors, senior managers with Group-wide throughout the Group: compliance with these limits functional responsibilities and the heads of the principal ismonitored by the Group Finance Director and the businesses of the Groups activities.
Day-to-day Group Audit & Risk Manager: responsibility for the management of the Group is delegated to the Management Board.
The responsibility all requests to quote for substantial fixed price contracts is based on the identification of separate businesses are reviewed by the Chief Executive and or the Group foreach of the Groups activities for which there are Finance Director to assess both technical and financial clearly defined lines of management responsibilities risk and to fix an appropriate balance between risk atalllevels up to and including the Group Board and andreward.
However, no procedure can guarantee the Groups accounting and reporting functions reflect theavoidance of losses on fixed price contracts of this organisation: atechnical nature: and financial executives within Group businesses report with respect to the UK pension scheme, the Group totheir own operational head but there is also a well nominates half of the trustee directors of the corporate established and acknowledged functional reporting trustee to the pension scheme, involves its own relationship through to the Group Finance Director: independent actuary with whom actuarial assumptions are reviewed, agrees the investment policy with the the Board reviews strategic issues and options formally trustee, works with the trustee on its investment once a year during the annual strategic planning process sub-committee to deal with day-to-day investment and during the year asappropriate.
In addition the matters and to act as a co-ordinator between the Executive Directors maintain a three year planning investment advisors, investment managers and the model of the Group and its individual businesses: trustee, ensures there is an independent actuarial annual budgets are prepared for each of the Groups valuation every three years and agrees funding levels businesses which include monthly figures for turnover, toprovide adequate funding to meet the benefit profit, capital expenditure, cash flow and borrowings.
payments of the members as they fall due.
The budgets are reviewed through the Group management structure and result in a Group financial budget which is considered and approved by the Board: Susan Johnson-Brett the businesses prepare monthly management accounts Company Secretary which compare the actual operating result with both 10 June 2014 the budget and the prior year.
The businesses also prepare rolling reforecasts for orders, turnover, operating profit and cash.
Both are reviewed by the Board monthly: 40 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
