Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, The role of the Audit Committee is to undertake an independent assessment of the integrity of theFinancial Statements and to ensure that there is a sound system of internal financial control throughout the Group.
The recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code serve to highlight this further, particularly the new duties to: advise the Board on whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Composition of the Audit Committee provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Chairman Members model and strategy: Jock Lennox Jennifer Allerton Thomas Geitner ensure that the external audit is put out to tender atleast once every ten years: and Mike Hughes report formally to the Board and Shareholders onhow it has discharged its responsibilities.
I would therefore like to present to you our report During the year, we also decided it would be appropriate to put the external audit out to tender.
Mindful of the which describes in more detail than in previous years the role of the Committee and the way in which our longevity of KPMGs audit tenure and that we had reached the point of partner rotation, we invited structured programme of activities enables us to Deloitte and  to tender discharge our responsibilities.
The programme not alongside KPMG.
After careful consideration we onlysupports the key events in the Groups financial decided to re-appoint KPMG andrecommended reporting cycle, but enables us tomonitor the effectiveness suchdecision to the Board.
of the internal financial control and risk management systems and to monitor the activities and performance As the size and complexity of Oxford Instruments of both our internal and external auditors.
Our report continues to grow we will continue to direct our also highlights the significant matters which we dealt activities to ensure the Groups governance and with in 2013 14 and how we satisfied ourselves as to controlmechanisms remain appropriate.
I hope that you will be supportive of the resolutions tobe proposed atour AGM.
If you have any queries inthe meantime I will be pleased to engage with you.
Jock Lennox Audit Committee Chairman Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 41 www.
com Audit Committee Report continued External audit Composition The members of the Audit Committee are Jock Lennox Chair, Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor.
Jennifer Allerton and Thomas Geitner.
The composition Monitoring and reviewing auditor independence and ofthe Committee changed during the year with the objectivity andevaluating the effectiveness of the appointment of Jennifer Allerton to the Board and the auditprocess.
Committee in June 2013 and the retirement from the Board and the Committee of Mike Hughes in September 2013.
Reviewing and approving the annual audit plan and The Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board, Chief audit findings.
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit and Risk Making recommendations to the Board for the Manager and the external auditor, KPMG, are invited to appointment or re-appointment of the external auditor.
attend all or part of any meetings at the discretion of the Audit Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary Reviewing and monitoring the non-audit services policy to the Committee.
Other relevant people from the business and the level of non-audit services provided by the are also invited toattend certain meetings in order to provide external auditor.
a deeper level of insight into key issues and developments.
Internal audit Each meeting allows time for the Committee to speak with Monitoring the role, resources and effectiveness of the the external auditors without the presence ofthe executive Group Internal Audit function.
The Board has determined that, as a Chartered Accountant, Audit Committee Chairman of certain other Approving an annual programme of internal audit public companies and former Senior Audit Partner of EY, work and reviewing the results of such work.
Jock Lennox is deemed to be independent and have recent Internal controls and risk management and relevant financial experience.
Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal financial control environment.
Role The remit of the Committee is summarised below and is Reviewing the operation of the Groups risk detailed in full in the terms of reference, a copy of which management processes.
can be found on our website at www.
The main responsibilities of the Committee Reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements are focused on the following five areas: and matters reported to the whistle-blowing hotline.
Financial reporting The Committee periodically reviews its terms of reference Reviewing our financial results announcements and and its effectiveness and recommends to the Board any Financial Statements and monitoring compliance with changes required as a result of such review.
Advising the Board on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model, strategy and risks.
Reviewing and challenging significant financial reporting judgements and accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards.
42 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Activities of the Audit Committee in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2014 The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities developed from its terms of reference and agreed with the Committee Chair at the start of the financial year.
A summary of the items discussed in each meeting is set out in the table below: July September November January March June Agenda item 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 Review the integrity of the draft Financial Statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumption reports received from management and KPMG Review and recommend for approval the half-year and year end announcements, interim management and AGM statements and the Annual Report External audit tender process Assess the effectiveness of the external auditprocess Approve external audit plan and fee proposal Review and approve non-audit services policy Consider independence and objectivity of externalauditor Review internal management representation letters Agree internal audit plan Review the output of the internal audit work Re-evaluate the effectiveness of the internal auditfunction Review internal control framework Review risk management process Annual review of whistle-blowing arrangements Discuss Audit Committee effectiveness survey and review  and terms of reference In addition to its usual business as described above the Significant matters related to the Financial Statements Committee met individual business managers in order to The Committee reviews all significant issues concerning gain a deeper insight into areas relevant to the Committees the Financial Statements.
The principal matters considered work and to provide an opportunity to discuss specific concerning the 2014 Financial Statements were: areas of interest.
These included progress updates on the Acquisition accounting Group-wide Enterprise Resource Planning ERP project, During the year the Group acquired Andor plc and two Project Connect, and a presentation on the nature of the smaller companies.
cyber security threat posed tothe Group.
Following the publication of the revised version of the UK For each acquisition the consideration was required to be allocated tothe identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Corporate Governance Code, which applies to financial years commencing on or after 1October 2012, the Board liabilities with any positive balance remaining being recognised as goodwill.
This requires the assets and liabilities to be requested that the Committee advise it on whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and valued at their fair value at the acquisition date and identifiable intangible assets to be recognised separately understandable and provides the information necessary forShareholders toassess the Companys performance, from goodwill.
The total value of intangibles acquired during the year was valued at 172.6m, further details of business model and strategy.
which can be found in Note 5 to the Financial Statements.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 43 www.
com Audit Committee Report continued Provisions for other liabilities and charges Significant matters related to the Financial Statements continued A provision is required to be made for any claim or dispute Acquisition accounting continued when itisconsidered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably The fair value of the intangible assets was assessed, using estimated.
From time to time theGroup will be subject to the advice of independent experts, by discounting the a variety of legal claims and disputes which, as a result of estimated future cash flows generated from the ownership its high technology products, may include patentinfringement of the asset over its useful economic life.
This requires making claims and disputes.
Details of provisions and contingencies assumptions on variables such as discount rates, economic can be found in Note 23 and 26 to the Financial Statements.
life of the asset, future expected cash flows from product sales, customer contracts and acquired developed technologies The level of provisioning, when required, will be subject and patents.
The selection of these assumptions is subjective toa significant degree of estimation since at the point of and small changes would have asignificant impact on the recognition the liability may be of an uncertain amount.
valuation of the intangible and on the allocation of the Revenue recognition consideration between intangible assets and goodwill.
Certain products supplied by the Group contain customer The Committee received reports from management on specific design and a high degree of technical specification.
thevaluation techniques and significant estimates used Although considerable technical expertise is employed to and satisfied itself that these had been reasonably and manufacture and install these products at the customer appropriately applied.
site, there is a risk that a particular term of sale is not Impairment of intangible assets achieved and revenue is recognised incorrectly.
The Group has undertaken a number of acquisitions, both The external auditor considers revenue recognition to be in the current year and historically.
Any goodwill acquired asignificant risk and has included this as an area of audit in these acquisitions is required, in accordance with IFRS, focus in its plan which was presented and approved by to be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
The value theCommittee in January 2014. of goodwill amounts to 106.4m at 31 March 2014.
Specific policies are applied by the Groups management such Impairment testing for goodwill is always carried out in the that revenue recognition is appropriate in these circumstances.
context ofa cash generating unit CGU or groups of CGUs, The Committee was satisfied that revenue has been since goodwill does not generate cash flows independently.
appropriately recognised within the Financial Statements.
Any goodwill acquired isallocated, at acquisition, to the CGU that is expected to benefit fromthe acquisition.
Misstatements TheGroups CGUs are set out in Note13.
Management reported to the Committee that they were Goodwill is considered to be impaired when its recoverable not aware ofany material misstatements or immaterial amount falls below its carrying amount.
In determining the misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular recoverable amount the value in use of the associated CGU presentation.
The auditor reported to the Committee the is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows.
misstatements that it had found in the course of their work This requires making assumptions on discount rates, growth none of which were material and required adjustment.
rates, expected selling volumes and prices anddirect costs.
TheCommittee concluded that it was satisfied that the auditor had fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence This year, the outcome of the impairment review concluded andprofessional scepticism.
that the carrying value of the Omicron CGU was less than its recoverable amount by 2.6m.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management, andafter consulting, where necessary, with Management highlighted to the Committee how it arrived the external auditor the Committee was satisfied that the at the key assumptions to estimate the expected future Financial Statements appropriately addressed the critical cash flows for the CGUs.
Management also brought to judgements and key estimates both in respect tothe theattention of the Committee the sensitivity analysis amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee tobe disclosed in Note 13 to the Financial Statements was alsosatisfied that the significant assumptions used withregards to the recoverable amount of the CGUs fordetermining thevalue of assets and liabilities, goodwill that had not been impaired.
includingthe pension commitments of the Group, The external auditor reported to the Committee its audit hadbeen appropriately scrutinised and challenged.
procedures to test managements impairment assessment and its assessment ofthe Groups disclosures on the subject.
No additional impairment tothe carrying amount at 31 March 2014 had been identified through the auditors work.
44 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Auditor independence External auditor The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance, In its assessment of the independence of the auditor the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, Committee receives confirmation of any relationships recommending the appointment of the external auditor between the Group and KPMG that may have a bearing tothe Board and approval ofits fees.
At the Committee onits independence and receives confirmation that it is meeting in January 2014 the external auditor, KPMG, provided independent of the Group.
the Committee with its plan for undertaking the external To further safeguard the objectivity and independence audit.
This highlighted the proposed approach, scope and ofthe external auditor firm becoming compromised, the planned materiality of the audit for the coming year and Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement identified the key risks and areas of audit focus, including of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
the approach for these areas in detail.
Nochange to this policy has been made during the year.
The Committee reviewed and, as appropriate, challenged All non-audit related engagements over 50,000 require the basis for these before agreeing the plan.
The Committee formal advance approval by the Committee.
The details assesses the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing ofthe audit fees for the year, together with fees for these matters through the reporting received from KPMG non-audit services, are set out in Note 4 page 89 to at the half year and year end and through feedback from .
key stakeholders at all levels across Oxford Instruments.
Internal audit The current KPMG audit engagement partner, Simon Internal Audit plays an important role in assessing the Haydn-Jones, willrotate off the Oxford Instruments effectiveness of internal controls.
This is achieved through auditaccount at the conclusion of the 2014 audit having an audit programme that includes rotational site visits completed his permitted tenure of five years.
It was decided providing core assurance over the Groups financial processes by the Committee that, mindful of the regulatory changes and risk-based reviews to provide assurance that controls in Europe and the longevity of the KPMG audit tenure, over certain key risks are operating effectively.
itwould be appropriate to put the external audit out to tender aligned to the partner rotation.
Oxford Instruments During the year a significant amount of Internal Audits has adopted the policy to tender the external audit at least time has been spent on providing assurance over the input every ten years, aligned with the audit engagement partner into the design of Project Connect and on reviewing the rotation and subject to the Financial Reporting Councils implementation of the findings of a third party audit of implementation in the UK of the European regulation on Project Connect.
The Committee has assessed the internal audit plan so KPMG, Deloitte and  were that it provides appropriate coverage over the internal approached inJanuary 2014 and a six stage tender process control environment and provides a balanced overview was conducted.
Duringthe process the tendering firms across the Group, taking into account the level of risk, were granted access to the Groups manufacturing sites other assurance activities and previous coverage.
Reports inthe UK, the USA and Germany: to theNon-Executive from the Group Audit & Risk Manager include updates Directors: to key management: and to company information onaudit activities, progress against the audit plan, and through an online data room.
This information gathering theresults ofthe audit work and status of any control stage was conducted over five weeks and allowed the remediationplans.
firms the opportunity to obtain a more in-depth knowledge The Group Audit & Risk Manager has direct access and of our business.
Each audit firm was then required to submit areporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee a written proposal and make a presentation to the selection and meets independently with him during the year.
The panel chaired by the Committee Chairman.
Each firm was Committee monitors the resources andscope of work of rated against pre-determined selection criteria and the the internal audit function to ensure that its development final score, whichincluded feedback from senior business is commensurate with the increasing scale and complexity management involved in the process, was used to support of the business.
Following this process the Committee recommended tothe Board at a Committee meeting convened in April 2014 that KPMG LLP be re-appointed asthe Groups external auditors.
Greg Watts will replace Simon Haydn-Jones as the lead audit partner for 2015.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 45 www.
com Audit Committee Report continued Whistle-blowing Internal control and risk management As we continue to expand and increase our global footprint The Groups Business Malpractice Policy comprises an internal A discussion of our it is recognised that the management of risk continues process that has been communicated directly to allemployees principal risks and tobe ever more important to the Group achieving its by which employees can raise a concern, including concerns uncertainties can keystrategic plans and objectives.
This year the Group relating to fraud, damage to the environment, criminal be found on hasrefreshed its risk management process to ensure that activity or danger to health and safety, in the knowledge pages 16 and 17 the Group continues to effectively identify and respond that it will be taken seriously, treated as confidential and tothe risks it faces.
The Groups risk management process that no action will be taken against the employee raising is underpinned by business risk reports and a reporting the concern.
There is also provision within the Policy framework that escalates risks to the appropriate foremployees to raise concerns directly with the Senior stakeholders.
Annually the business risk reports are Independent Director.
This policy isreviewed annually consolidated into the Group Risk Register and reviewed bythe Committee.
No serious matters were reported byexecutive management before being reported to during the year.
Summary Internal audit provides assurance on the risk management The Committee has concluded, as a result of its work processes aspart of its audit work and utilises the output during the year, that it has acted in accordance with its of the business risk reporting to identify the risk-based terms of reference and fulfilled its responsibilities.
The reviews to be included within its audit plan.
Chairman of the Committee will be available atthe AGM The Committee reviewed the system of internal financial to answer any questions on the work of the Committee.
control on behalf of the Board and satisfied itself that the Group is meeting the required standards both for the year ended 31 March 2014 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
No concerns were raised with the Committee in 2014 about possible improprieties in matters offinancial reporting.
In coming to these conclusions the Committee reviewed reports from internal audit and external audit on internal control findings, received in-depth reviews into the control environment and risk management process: and had regard for the other assurance activity performed bythe Group functional heads over operations, health and safety, research and development, human resources and IT.
The Committee noted the Groups move to more detailed policies, the implementation of minimum financial control standards and a related programme of self-assessment.
46 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
