Governance Financial statements Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report Audit & Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder budget process, with regular forecast updates and Board reviews of performance.
I am pleased to introduce this report of Paces Audit & Risk Committee for the year ended During the year the Committee was assisted 31December 2014.
This reflects the provisions by the previous Chief Financial Officer and from of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the 28 July 2014 the Acting Chief Financial Officer, Code now in effect regarding narrative reporting.
Belinda Ellis, the Vice President of Group Finance and in particular the internal auditors, The Committees duties are described later in this BDO LLP.
Ihave also met separately with report and reflect the Codes recommendations.
theCompanys auditors during which meetings More broadly, the Committee sees its role as Ihave discussed their views on the strength and being to ensure the integrity of the Groups depth of financial reporting and internal control financial reporting and the robustness of its processes operating within the Group.
internal controls and risk management processes.
John Grant Set out in the following pages is the Committees In relation to the integrity of financial reporting, Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee report on its activities during the year, including we adopt prudent accounting policies and a description of how the Committee dealt with practices, with areas of judgement being those areas of financial reporting that require subject to specific review by the Committee.
particularly careful review and judgement.
We work closely with the Companys external None of these areas has proved critical in auditors to agree areas of risk of potential preparing the Groups financial statements misstatement and to make sure these are thisyear.
addressed as part of the audit process.
With respect to the financial statements, the While the ultimate responsibility for reviewing Financial Reporting Council FRC reviewed and approving the Annual Report and Accounts our 2013 Annual Report & Accounts under remains with the Board, the Board requires that their duty to review periodically those of all UK the Committee report to the Board on whether listed companies.
The Audit & Risk Committee it considers the Annual Report and Accounts, is currently finalising the review with the FRC taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and and the 2014 Annual Report & Accounts has understandable and to provide the information been updated where necessary.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model I hope you will find this report helpful in andstrategy.
understanding the work of the Committee.
Risk management at Pace is a Board Yours sincerely responsibility, but the Audit & Risk Committee is tasked by the Board with ensuring the risk John Grant management process is fit for purpose.
Our Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee systems of internal control are designed to focus resource on the principal risks to the business which are summarised within the Strategic Report.
We have a well-developed Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report continued The Committee, in consultation with the Internal audit Role and key responsibilities Groups executive management, agreed The Companys Vice President of Group Finance, The terms of reference of the Committee totheterms of the KPMG engagement letter, who has direct access to the Audit & Risk are reviewed annually and are available on audit plan and budgeted audit fees for the Committee primarily through the Chairman the Companys website www.
ofthe Committee, oversees an internal audit The Committees main responsibilities involve: function including a Risk Assurance Manager A formal framework governs the process and incorporating external qualified through which the Groups auditors are R monitoring the integrity of the Financial .
considered to render non-audit services.
Statements of the Company and formal TheCommittee has approved a policy in announcements relating to the Companys The Audit & Risk Committee reviews annually relation to the provision of non-audit services financial performance and reviewing any the arrangements for internal audit and during by the external auditors and the nature and significant financial reporting the year the Committee re-appointed BDO LLP extent of non-audit services that the external judgements contained therein: BDO to act as internal auditors, performing auditors could provide within the scope an agreed programme of internal audits in R reviewing the Companys internal ofthepolicy during the year.
collaboration with the Companys Vice President financial and operational control of Group Finance and senior management.
Details of the external auditors total fees paid andriskmanagement systems: BDO attended and presented their reports to to KPMG during the year are set out in Note 4 R monitoring the effectiveness of the each of the Audit & Risk Committee meetings to the Financial Statements.
Non-audit fees of Companys internal audit function during the year.
$133,000 2013: $100,000 were paid to KPMG andreviewing its material findings: in respect of the year ended 31December 2014.
The Committee has, amongst other things, R reviewing accounting policies, considered the quality of reporting to the External audit appointment accounting treatments and disclosures Committee and impartiality of the internal auditors in the Strategic Report and Financial and has concluded that the effectiveness of The Committee reviews and makes Statements ensuring that shareholders Internal Audit during the year was satisfactory.
recommendations with regard to the may understand strategic aims and re-appointment of the external auditors.
risks of the business of the Group and Inmaking these recommendations, the External audit that the Annual Report and Accounts Committee considers auditor effectiveness Our auditors, KPMG Audit Plc instigated an taken as a whole is fair, balanced and independence, partner rotation and any orderly wind down of their business during andunderstandable: other factors which may impact the external theyear.
The Board decided to put KPMG LLP auditors re-appointment.
forward to be appointed as auditors and a R overseeing the Companys relationship resolution concerning their appointment is being with its external auditors, including making The external auditors are required to rotate put to the forthcoming AGM of the company.
recommendations as to frequency theaudit partner every five years.
The most oftendering for audit services, the recent change occurred in the year ended The Audit & Risk Committee has satisfied itself appointment or re-appointment of the 31December 2012 and therefore partner rotation that the external auditors, KPMG LLP KPMG, external auditors, reviewing their terms is due in the year ending 31 December 2017. acted independently of the Group.
Previous of engagement and monitoring their appointments of KPMG and the extent of other The current external auditors, KPMG LLP independence and ensuring that policy work undertaken by it were considered inter formerly KPMG Audit plc, were first appointed surrounding their engagement to provide alia in this regard.
in 1996 and the external audit has not been non-audit services is appropriately applied: formally tendered since then.
It is the Committees opinion confirmed in R monitoring fraud reports and reviewing discussions with KPMG that there were no Having completed the activities outlined, the effectiveness of the Companys limitations imposed by management on KPMG theCommittee remains confident that the whistleblowing procedures: and whilst performing their duties during the effectiveness and independence of the external reviewperiod.
R reporting to the Board on how it auditors is not impaired in any way.
There are hasdischarged its responsibilities.
no contractual restrictions on the choice ofexternal auditor.
32 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Financial statements The comply-or-explain provision relating to audit With the support of the external auditor, Internal controls and risk management tendering in the UK Corporate Governance theCommittee assessed whether suitable The Committee reviews the framework of Code has effectively now been superseded by accounting policies had been adopted, whether internal controls and the processes by which the UK Competition Commissions final report management had made appropriate estimates the Groups control environment is evaluated.
and recent developments in Europe.
Pace has and judgements and whether the disclosures In this regard, the Committee received reports been advised that new European legislation were fair and balanced.
from internal audit on the operation of, and islikely to require mandatory rotation of audit The significant judgements considered by the issue arising from, the Groups internal controls firms every ten years, extendable in certain Committee in areas where there was potential and procedures.
External audit has also provided circumstances to twenty years.
KPMG has risk of material misstatement, were: input and observations on the internal control been Paces auditor since listing in 1996 and environment and on any specific control issues the transitional rules that the EU has proposed R Royalty provisions.
These are considered that occurred during the year.
are expected to require an initial change of audit asignificant area of judgement due to the firms no later than 2023.
Until this uncertainty is complexity of the claims made against the The Committee also reviewed compliance resolved, the Committee will continue to consider Group, and the range of possible outcomes activities in relation to internal audit reports annually whether to conduct an audit tender of each claim.
The Committee and the submitted to the Committee in prior years for audit quality or independence reasons.
Board receive a semi-annual report from the andreceived a report on the status of General Counsel regarding royalties under recommendations and actions outstanding.
negotiation as referred to inNote 20 to the Activities of the Committee The Committee reviews the Groups risk Financial Statements.
The main activities of the Committee during management framework in order to ensure it is the year are set out below.
Project appropriate and operating effectively.
In doing development costs are capitalised and so, the Committee received reports from the Financial reporting subsequently amortised over their useful Vice President of Group Finance covering: The Committee reviewed and considered the economic life.
The Committee considered following areas in respect of financial reporting R the effectiveness of the risk management the basis forselecting such costs as relevant and the preparation of the interim and annual processes and their adoption across the development costs and the process for financial statements: Group: and identifying the useful life.
The Committee R the appropriateness of accounting also reviews a summary of the larger R a summary of the top risks to the Group, policiesused: projects, by carrying value, to understand controls identified to mitigate these risks how the costs capitalised are covered by and actions planned to reduce risks R compliance with external and internal future forecast margin.
financial reporting standards and policies: hasconcluded that the processes for As part of its agenda, the Committee allowed R significant judgements made: capitalising development costs are robust time for in-depth reviews of particular risk areas.
and that the balance is recoverable.
R disclosures and presentations: and During the year, the risk areas considered included R Acquisition accounting.
As part of the business continuity management, IT Strategy, R whether the Annual Report and Accounts accounting for the acquisition of Aurora governance and supply chain management.
are fair, balanced and understandable.
Networks, Inc, the Committee considered In carrying this out, the Committee considered the purchase price allocation exercise and the work and recommendations of the Group the basis for fair value adjustments.
In addition, the Committee Committee considered that the balances received reports from the external auditors were fairly stated.
setting out their view on the accounting R Other areas of judgement reviewed by the treatments and judgements included in the Committee, but where it was concluded that financial statements.
The external auditors there was not a risk of material misstatement, reports are based on a full audit of the annual included: revenue recognition, warranty financial statements and a high-level review provisions: classification of items as exceptional: ofthe interim financial statements.
potential impairments of goodwill, intangible and other fixed assets: and treatment of tax assets and liabilities.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
