Governance Framework of Corporate Governance The Pace plc Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for standards of governance across the Groups businesses Each of the directors submit themselves for The Board Details of each Committees terms re-election on an annual basis.
New directors The Pace plc Board is accountable to the ofreference are available on the Pace receive a programme of tailored induction on Companys shareholders for standards of website at www.
com joining the Board and all directors are offered governance across the Groups businesses.
the opportunity to continually update their skills Certain strategic decision-making powers The Board of directors currently comprises and knowledge by attending external training andauthorities of the Company are reserved two executive and five non-executive directors events.
The Company has in place procedures as matters for the Board.
Whilst day-to-day who bring a wide range of skills and experience to deal with directors conflicts of interest and operational decisions are managed by the to the Board.
the Board is satisfied that these procedures Chief Executive Officer the principal matters Biographical details of all directors are to be found operate effectively.
reserved for the Board are set out below: on pages 26 and 27.
The Chairman, Allan Leighton, The Board normally meets at least eight times R setting the overall strategic direction is mainly responsible for the running of the Board, each year.
It reviews the strategic direction of andoversight of the management of ensuring, together with the Company Secretary, the Group and meets with other senior executives theCompany: that it receives timely and clear information and employees within the Group as required appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
R recommending or declaring dividends: during the year.
The Chairman holds meetings The responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, with the non-executive directors without the R approval of the Company consolidated Mike Pulli, are to focus on running the Groups executive directors being present on a regular financial statements: business and implementing Group strategy.
It is the policy of the Board to undertake a Chief Executive Officer is assisted in managing R approval of major corporate transactions formal review and evaluation of its performance the business on a day-to-day basis by the and commitments: including the performance of its committees, Executive Committee as further described below.
the Chairman and individual directors on an R succession planning and appointments tothe All the non-executive directors other than annual basis.
This is generally concluded by Board and senior management remuneration: theChairman are deemed by the Board to be written feedback in standardised form from R review of the Groups overall corporate independent and the Chairman was deemed each director to the Chairman or the Senior governance arrangements including independent on his appointment, as required by Independent Director in the case of appraisal systems of internal controls and risk the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, of the Chairman.
The Board considers appointing management: and the Board has designated John Grant as the an independent facilitator for the evaluation Senior Independent Director.
All directors have process at least once every three years and R approval of the delegation of authority to access to the advice and services of the General resolved to do so in 2014: however this process the Chief Executive Officer and the terms Counsel and Company Secretary and are able was deferred to 2015 to allow the appointment ofreference of all Committees of the Board.
to take independent professional advice at the ofa new CFO to take effect ahead of the Where appropriate, matters are delegated Companys expense in the furtherance of their evaluation process.
In addition the members toaCommittee which will consider them duties, if necessary.
The code can be accessed meet with senior employees below Executive inaccordance with its terms of reference.
level on a regular basis in the UK and overseas to receive feedback over lunch, dinner orininformal meetings.
Board and committee meetings attendance Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 8 4 3 1 Allan Leighton 7 3 1 Mike Pulli 8 Roddy Murray 4 John Grant 8 4 3 1 Mike Inglis 6 3 1 1 Pat Chapman-Pincher 8 4 3 1 Amanda Mesler 8 4 3 1 resigned 27 July 2014 appointed 13 March 2014 and has attended all meetings since appointment 28 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Financial statements Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the two executive directors In addition the following senior executives attend meetings together with the following two senior executives who are deemed oftheExecutive Committee on a regular basis: to be Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility under R Phil Baldock Senior Vice President, Operations theUKListing Rules.
R Jon Cobb President, Software & Services R Mike Pulli Chief Executive Officer R Bruce Gurek Chief Strategy Officer R Mark Shuttleworth Chief Financial Officer R Jim Henderson President, Pace International R Tim OLoughlin President, Pace Americas R Jane Johnston Group Human Resources Director R Anthony Dixon General Counsel and Company Secretary R Roberto Salermo Senior Vice President, Latin America Sales R Guy Sucharczuk President, Networks The Executive Committee is chaired Where directors do hold other external positions, Board committees byMike Pulli as Chief Executive Officer.
these are not considered to have any impact The Board has established the following TheCommittee generally meets once a on their duties for the Group.
committees, each of which has written terms monthandensures that the strategy, plans of reference specifying its authority and duties The Nomination Committee is comprised of and policies previously agreed or delegated and copies of which are publicly available non-executive directors Pat Chapman-Pincher, bytheBoard are implemented.
John Grant, Mike Inglis and Amanda Mesler and The Executive Committee comprises two is chaired by Allan Leighton.
Its principal purpose The Audit & Risk Committee is comprised executive directors together with the senior is to consider and make recommendations to of independent designated non-executive executives shown in the table above.
the Board regarding the appointment of new directors Pat Chapman-Pincher, Mike Inglis, directors.
The Nomination Committee meets Amanda Mesler and John Grant, who is the The Remuneration Committee is comprised at least once a year or asrequired.
John Grant was ofAllan Leighton and independent designated previously Group Finance Director of a listed non-executive directors John Grant, Amanda business and is considered by the Board Mesler, Pat Chapman-Pincher and Mike Inglis, tohave the necessary recent and relevant who is the Chairman of the Committee.
financial experience for his role as Chairman.
TheCommittee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and Details of the role and of the primary other members of the Executive Committee responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee and wider Executive Team, including making are explained on pages 31 to 33 recommendations regarding the grant of share incentive awards.
The members of the Committee have no personal interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, nopotential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in the running of the business.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Governance Framework of Corporate Governance continued Directors remuneration Relations with shareholders Annual General Meeting The Remuneration Committee reviews The Company has a well-developed investor The Annual General Meeting of the Company theperformance of the executive directors, relations programme led by the Chief Executive will be held on 23 April 2015 at the offices of othermembers of the Executive Committee Officer and Chief Financial Officer and managed the Company at Salts Mill, Victoria Road, Saltaire, and wider Executive Team asa prelude to by the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations West Yorkshire BD18 3LF.
Full details of the recommending their annual remuneration, and Strategy.
Through this programme the business to be transacted at the meeting will be bonus awards and long-term share incentive Company maintains regular contact with major set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The final determinations are shareholders to communicate clearly the Groups made by the Board as awhole but no director objectives and monitors movements plays a part in any discussions concerning their insignificant shareholdings.
There are no agreements Investor roadshows are now held each year between the Company andits directors or inthe USA as well as in the UK and formal employees providing for compensation for investor presentations are made twice a year lossof office or employment whether through to groups of investment fund managers.
resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise Theopportunity for shareholders to meet the that occurs as aresult of a takeover bid.
Chairman or Senior Independent Director, The 2014 Remuneration Report of the directors separately from the executive directors, to shareholders is set out on pages 35 to 43. isavailable on request.
All financial and trading announcements are Code compliance published immediately on the Companys As referred to on page 43 the Company website, including copies of the presentations granted an appointment share award to Allan made to analysts and investors.
Leighton on his appointment as Non-executive All shareholders are welcome to participate at Chairman in 2011 and this partially vested during the Companys Annual General Meeting when 2014 and will fully vest in 2015.
As noted earlier all the directors will normally be available to the evaluation of the Board by an external third answer questions.
The results of the Annual party did not take place and was postponed to General Meeting resolutions, including details 2015.
Save in respect of these matters, the of votes cast withheld, are published on the directors believe that the Company has complied Companys website.
throughout the year with the UK Corporate Governance Code, as revised and adopted bythe Financial Reporting Council.
TheBoard confirms that it has established the necessary procedures designed to maintain a sound system of internal controls and that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
30 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
