GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature of the and controlled by an effective board which monitors progress company.
The company has complied with the revised version of through monthly reports and management accounts.
The board the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as issued by the has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The most Financial Reporting Council for the year ended 31 March 2014, significant of these are the approval of: a copy of which can be found at www.
cfm other than in respect of corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating the requirement to perform an external evaluation of the board and capital expenditure budgets: every three years.
The rationale for the delay in the external the appointment of the Chief Executive, other directors and evaluation is dealt with later in this governance report.
the Company Secretary: major capital investments: This statement describes how the principles of corporate annual and half yearly financial statements: governance in the Code are applied by the company.
interim management statements: and acquisitions and disposals.
The board The board met six times during the year and all meetings were The board currently comprises ten directors: David Newlands, attended by all board members in office at the relevant time the non-executive Chairman, Warren Tucker, the non-executive except that Tim Watkin-Rees, Eric Anstee and Andrew Robb Chairman designate, three executive directors, Dominic Taylor, were each unable to attend one meeting.
Where a director is George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees, and five non-executive unable to attend, he provides input through discussion with the directors, Eric Anstee, David Morrison, Andrew Robb, Stephen Chairman in advance of the meeting.
In order for the company to be fully compliant with the Code, Having served as Chairman of the board since 1998, David an external evaluation of the board was due to take place Newlands has elected to retire from the board at the annual during the year.
However, in view of the recent appointment of general meeting on 23 July 2014.
Warren Tucker was appointed Warren Tucker, as Chairman designate, the board considered it to the board on 5 February 2014 and, subject to election by would be of more value to undertake a formal external board shareholders, will succeed David Newlands as Chairman with evaluation following the 2014 annual general meeting when effect from the conclusion of the annual general meeting.
Warren Tucker will take over the role of Chairman.
The external Further information about the appointment of Warren Tucker is evaluation will be completed during the course of next year, provided in the nomination committee report.
to enable the board and the new Chairman to fully review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the financial The board considers that Warren Tucker, Eric Anstee, Andrew year ahead and to assist the nomination committee in its Robb, Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles are independent for the succession planning activities.
David Newlands was considered to be independent on appointment.
In contemplation of the performance evaluation that will be performed by an external advisor next year, an internal The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and performance evaluation of the board, its committees and ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The board individual directors was undertaken during the period.
There is comprised of an appropriate balance of skills, experience, were no material changes recommended.
independence and knowledge, which enables it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The balance of independence creates In addition to the evaluation of board members, the various an environment that encourages the effective challenge and committees carried out self-assessments to determine whether development of proposals on strategy.
All the non-executive their terms of reference had been satisfactorily fulfilled and how directors bring considerable knowledge and experience to board their processes could be improved.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys share schemes or bonus schemes and their service The Chairman and Andrew Robb Senior Independent Director is non-pensionable.
The balance and independence of the board will both retire at the 2014 annual general meeting.
Warren is kept under review by the nominations committee.
Tucker will offer himself for election by shareholders for the first time.
Every other member of the board will offer himself for Biographical details of each of the current serving directors are set re-election.
The boards recommendations in respect of the out on page 21.
Procedures exist to allow the directors to seek re-election of each director can be found in the notice of independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the meeting on pages 69 to 82. companys expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive proactively manages succession planning for the executives and senior management team and keeps the The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive board updated on developments as necessary.
directors and the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the annual general meeting.
The Chairman, David Newlands, chairs board meetings and regularly consults with the executive directors regarding ongoing business.
His other significant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 21.
The board considers that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the company and its subsidiaries the group effectively.
PayPoint plc annual report 2014 17 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE continued Further details on diversity throughout the group can be found Conflicts of interest on pages 15 and 16.
Under the articles of association, the board has authority to approve any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that are The Senior Independent Director would chair discussions relating declared by individual directors: conditions may be attached to to succession planning for the Chairman, in which the Chairman such approvals and directors will generally not be entitled to would not take part.
participate in discussions or vote on matters in which they have or may have a conflict of interest.
During the year, an external search was commissioned, using an independent executive search firm, Egon Zehnder, which has no A register of conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at least other connection with the company, to search for a Chairman annually to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Authorisation designate pending the retirement of David Newlands from the is sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if any board at the 2014 annual general meeting.
Warren Tucker new conflicts arise.
was identified as the strongest candidate for the role and was subsequently recommended to the board by the nomination committee on the basis that he met the desired criteria.
Shareholder relations The directors consider that the annual report and accounts Since the year end, the committee has commissioned Egon play an important role in providing shareholders with an Zehnder to search for an independent non-executive director evaluation of the companys position and prospects.
The board to replace Andrew Robb as Senior Independent Director and aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all chairman of the remuneration committee.
The board acknowledges the importance of an retire from the board at the 2014 annual general meeting after open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and welcomes nine years.
The search process is being conducted in line with correspondence from private investors.
the appropriate guidelines on diversity and is well advanced.
We believe that, in addition to the annual report and the Audit committee companys website, the annual general meeting is an ideal The audit committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew Robb, forum at which to communicate with investors, and the board Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles.
The board considers Eric encourages their participation.
The Senior Independent Director Anstee, who is Chairman of the audit committee, to have is available to address any unresolved shareholder concerns.
recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the Code.
Full biographical details of each of the current committee The company held briefings with institutional fund managers, members, including relevant financial experience, are set out on analysts and other investors following the announcement of page 21. half yearly results and feedback from these has been reported to the board.
Meetings have been held at other times during the The key responsibilities of the audit committee are as follows: period when appropriate.
monitoring that the financial performance of the group is Committees of the board properly measured and reported: The following formally constituted committees deal with specific reporting to the board on the appropriateness of the aspects of the groups affairs in accordance with the duties and significant accounting policies and practices of the group: responsibilities formally delegated to them by the board.
The considering and making recommendations to the board on terms of reference for each of the committees are available on the nature and extent of the significant risk the group is the companys website at www.
willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor and the quality of the internal and external audit processes: Nomination committee reviewing the internal financial controls and internal control The nomination committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew and risk management systems of the group: Robb, Stephen Rowley, David Morrison, Nick Wiles, Warren monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Tucker since 5 February 2014 and David Newlands, who is its arrangements for internal audit, including its remit and Chairman.
It met three times during the period and all members programme and ensuring that it is adequately resourced: and in office at the relevant time were in attendance.
David advising the board on whether the committee believes Newlands did not chair the nomination committee when it was the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, dealing with the appointment of his successor.
balanced and understandable and provides sufficient information to enable shareholders to assess the groups The committee is responsible for considering and making performance, business model and strategy.
recommendations on the appointment of additional directors, the retirement of existing directors and for reviewing the size, The committee continues to keep its activities under review in structure and composition of the board and membership of board the light of regulatory and market developments and met six committees, which are considered against objective criteria.
All members were in attendance with the exception of Eric Anstee and Andrew Robb, who were each The committee considers the need for progressive refreshment unable to attend one of the meetings.
In both cases, each of and keeps the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and the directors reviewed all relevant papers and provided input experience of the board under review.
During considerations through discussion with the Group Finance Director in advance on the appointment and retention of non-executive directors, of the meeting.
By invitation, during the year, meetings were also the committee has regard to the need for particularly rigorous attended by the Chairman and non-executive directors, the Chief review and the need to progressively refresh the board where Executive, Group Finance Director, Business Development Director terms of appointment are beyond six years.
In 2014 the and the Group Financial Controller.
Our external auditor, Deloitte committee will continue to assess the boards composition and LLP and internal auditor, KPMG LLP attended as appropriate.
Diversity will be considered as part of this process to ensure candidates are selected from the broadest range of talent.
18 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE continued In order to maximise its effectiveness and as part of the External audit process of working with the board, the committee meetings Deloitte LLP has been the external auditor for the group since 2001 generally take place on the same day and prior to the company following a formal tender process.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP board meetings.
Where all the board members have not been as external auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner, is in attendance at an audit committee meeting, either as a kept under annual review.
The current lead audit partner has been member of the committee or by invitation, the chairman of the in place for four years.
An annual review of the effectiveness of the committee reports to the board as part of a separate agenda external audit is undertaken by the committee.
item, on the activity of the committee.
The effectiveness of the audit process is underpinned by In contemplation of its key responsibilities, during the period, appropriate audit planning and risk identification at the outset the committee: reviewed reports from the auditor relating to the of the audit cycle.
The auditor provides a detailed audit plan groups accounting and internal controls: advised the board on identifying its assessment of the risks and other key matters the appointment, performance, independence and objectivity of for review.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the primary the auditor and the internal auditor: reviewed the effectiveness risks identified were goodwill impairment, revenue recognition of the groups systems of internal control, including fraud and taxation.
The committee reviews and challenges the work prevention: reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit undertaken by the auditor to test managements assumptions programme and the reports of the internal auditors and other on these matters.
An assessment of the effectiveness of the independent audits by clients, LINK and BSI.
audit process in addressing these items is performed through the reporting received from the auditor at the half-year and year The significant issues considered by the committee in relation to end.
The committee seeks feedback from management on the the 2014 accounts, and how these were addressed, were: effectiveness of the audit process.
No significant issues were raised with respect to the audit process for the period and the Goodwill impairment and disclosure: quality of the audit process was assessed to be good.
The judgments in relation to the impairment of goodwill largely relate to the value in use of the businesses acquired and, in The audit committee meets the external auditor without the particular, the combination during the period under review executive directors being present and procedures are in place of PayPoint.
net, PayByPhone and the newly acquired Adaptis which allow access at any time of both external and internal into Mobile and Online.
Forecasts used for the valuations are auditor to the audit committee.
The Chairman of the committee consistent with those prepared for business planning purposes, reports the outcome of each meeting to the board.
including the setting of targets for management incentives.
The committee scrutinises these forecasts and challenges the The committees assessment of the external auditors assumptions with management.
The forecasts include targets performance and independence, if satisfactory, underpins its for the sale of new products and services to new clients, over recommendation to the board to propose to shareholders which there is inherent uncertainty.
In addition, the committee the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor.
Based on the receives extensive reports from the auditors on these valuations.
committees assessment, the committee has provided the Sensitivity analysis is performed to understand whether the board with its recommendation to the shareholders on the headroom the amount by which the value in use would have re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor for the year to fall to cause impairment is adequate and proper disclosure ending 31 March 2015.
There are no contractual obligations is made in the financial statements.
The committee challenged restricting the committees choice of auditor.
A resolution for the combination of business into Mobile and Online and is re-appointment of the auditor will be proposed at the satisfied that it is appropriate, as forecast revenue attributed forthcoming annual general meeting, the notice for which can to new products and for new clients has been prepared on a be found on pages 69 to 82. group basis for Mobile and Online and cannot be distinguished between PayPoint.
Revenue recognition: We have reviewed the recognition of income to ensure that the approach adopted is appropriate and consistent.
Most of the groups revenue is transaction-based and recognised on the basis of completed transactions.
We have challenged the basis of  recognition, where judgment is applied.
The largest instance of this is the Simple Payment service set-up fee, the final tranche of which was taken to income last year.
The committee also receives reports from the auditor on income recognition which it discusses with them.
Taxation: Judgment on taxation includes the recognition of losses.
There were brought forward losses at the start of last year available for offsetting profit in the year and future years.
The audit committee considers the losses, any time restrictions for their use and the financial forecasts prepared by management and managements views on the potential use of such losses and those it would be appropriate to recognise in the period under review.
The committee also receives reports from the auditor and discusses the recognition of losses with them.
PayPoint plc annual report 2014 19 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE continued Non-audit services Internal audit The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for The audit committee is responsible for approving a rigorous services provided by the auditor in order to satisfy itself that internal audit programme covering all the groups key business auditor independence is safeguarded.
The group has a policy areas.
The current programme was approved in March 2011 which prohibits the auditor providing certain services which and, each year, the programme is reviewed to ensure that might impair its independence.
The committee monitors account is taken, where necessary, of any change.
During compliance with the policy safeguarding the independence of the period, KPMG LLP provided internal audit services to the the external auditor.
The policy also prescribes that any noncompany as directed by the audit committee, in accordance audit services to be performed by the auditor in any one year with the approved internal audit plan.
It executed a programme excluding tax are to be provisionally capped at an aggregate of testing designed to assess and report on the adequacy, total equivalent to the level of the annual audit fee.
Any reliability and effectiveness of the design and operation of the proposal to use the auditor for non-audit services exceeding this relevant accounting, financial and business control systems will be subject to the prior approval of the audit committee.
In implemented by management and reported the results to the determining the most appropriate provider of non-audit services, audit committee.
the committee will consider the knowledge and expertise of the potential providers and the proposed costs.
Non-audit services During the year, the internal audit service was subject to tender.
will only be undertaken by the auditor where it is deemed As part of the selection process, the audit committee met to be the preferred provider and the provision of services poses with a shortlist of firms, during which Grant Thornton LLP was no threat to its independence.
Details of the remuneration paid identified as the strongest candidate firm, culminating in its to the auditor for the statutory audit and non-audit services, appointment to provide internal audit services to the company.
which normally are limited to assurance and tax advice, are set out in note 5.
Remuneration committee The role and composition of the remuneration committee Risk management and internal control and details of how the company applies the principles of the The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out in the the groups system of internal control and for regularly reviewing remuneration committee report on pages 25 to 41. its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed to meet the particular needs of the group and its risks, safeguarding shareholders investments and the companys assets.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
All procedures necessary to comply with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code have been in place throughout the period under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The directors have conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control during the period.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the review.
The operational management of the group is delegated to senior managers who are appointed by the Chief Executive.
The responsibilities of the senior management group include the regular review of the main business risks to the group.
The group has prepared a detailed risk register which includes analysis of all the main operational risks covering all parts of the groups business activities, including financial risks.
The group evaluates and prioritises the identified key operational risks.
In order to ensure that this process is managed effectively, responsibility for each key risk area is assigned to a member of senior management, who must confirm in writing that the potential threats in each area have been properly identified and recorded and the appropriate action taken to mitigate risks so far as possible.
This process has been fully embedded into the operations of the business.
The audit committee receives regular updates on the ongoing risk management, control systems and processes which are discussed at their meetings.
