60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Leadership & effectiveness Board of directors Chairman Executive Directors Robin Freestone chief financial officer Glen moreno chairman John Fallon chief executive aged 56, appointed 12 June 2006 aged 71, appointed 1 October 2005 aged 52, appointed 3 October 2012 Robins experience in management and John became Pearsons chief executive on Chairman of the nomination committee and accounting includes a previous role as group 1 January 2013.
Since 2008 he had been member of the remuneration committee financial controller of Amersham plc now responsible for the companys education Glen has more than four decades of part of General Electric and senior financial businesses outside North America, and experience in business and finance, and positions with ICI plc, Zeneca and Henkel a member of the Pearson management is currently non-executive director and UK.
He was also a non-executive director and committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 chairman designate of Virgin Money Holdings founder shareholder of eChem Limited until as director of communications and was UK plc and non-executive director of May 2014 when the company was sold.
Robin appointed president of Pearson Inc. a role Fidelity International Limited.
He is also a joined Pearson in 2004 as deputy chief financial he combined with his communications senior adviser to HSBC and chairman of officer and became chief financial officer responsibilities, in 2000.
In 2003, he was the Global Leadership and Technology in June 2006.
He qualified as a chartered appointed CEO of Pearsons educational Exchange leadership board.
Previously, accountant with Touche Ross now Deloitte, publishing businesses for Europe, Middle Glen was deputy chairman of The Financial and currently sits on the Advisory Group of East & Africa EMA and gradually took on Reporting Council Limited in the UK, the ICAEWs Financial Reporting Faculty and a broader international education brief.
deputy chairman and senior independent was, until December 2014, chairman of The Prior to joining Pearson, John was director of director at Lloyds Banking Group plc, senior Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
He also corporate affairs at Powergen plc, where he independent director of Man Group plc and sits on the CBIs Economic Growth board.
was also a member of the companys executive acting chairman of UK Financial Investments committee.
Earlier in his career, John held Limited, the company set up by HM Treasury senior public policy and communications roles to manage the governments shareholdings in UK local government.
He is an advisory in UK banks.
board member of the Global Business Coalition for Education.
Non-executive Directors Pearson board members bring a wide range of experience, skills and backgrounds which Ken Hydon Non-executive director Josh lewis Non-executive director complement our strategy.
aged 70, appointed 28 February 2006 aged 52, appointed 1 March 2011 Chairman of the audit committee and Digital experience Member of the nomination and remuneration member of the nomination and remuneration committees 50% committees Joshs experience spans finance, education Kens experience in finance and business and the development of digital enterprises.
includes working in the electronics, retail, He is the founder of Salmon River Capital LLC, Emerging market consumer products and healthcare sectors.
a New York-based private equity venture He is non-executive director of Reckitt experience capital firm focused on technology-enabled Benckiser Group plc, one of the worlds businesses in education, financial services 25% leading branded consumer goods companies and other sectors.
Over a 25-year career in in health, hygiene and home.
He is also a nonactive, principal investing, he has been involved executive director of Merlin Entertainments in a broad range of successful companies, Education learning plc, the worlds second largest visitor including several pioneering enterprises sector experience attraction operator.
From 2004 to 2013 he in the education sector.
In addition, he has was a non-executive director of Tesco plc.
long been active in the non-profit education 50% Previously, Ken was chief financial officer sector, with associations including New of Vodafone Group plc, the multinational Leaders, New Classrooms, and the Bill & Note: Graphic illustrates experience telecommunications company, and financial Melinda Gates Foundation.
He is also a nonof non-executive directors director of subsidiaries of Racal Electronics.
executive director of eVestment and Axioma, both financial data technology companies, and Parchment, an education credentials management company.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 61 Non-executive Directors Elizabeth corley, cBE Non-executive director vivienne cox Senior independent director David Arculus Non-executive director aged 58, appointed 1 May 2014 aged55, appointed 1 January 2012 aged 68, appointed 28 February 2006 Chairman of the reputation & responsibility Chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the nomination and remuneration committee and member of the audit, and member of the audit and nomination committees nomination and remuneration committees committees Elizabeth is chief executive officer of Allianz Global Investors, one of the worlds leading Vivienne has wide experience in energy, David has experience in banking, natural resources and business innovation.
telecommunications and publishing in a long investment organisations.
She was previously She worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain career in business.
Currently he is chairman of at Merrill Lynch Investment Managers and Coopers & Lybrand.
Elizabeth is a member and Continental Europe, in posts including Energy UK and Hassium Asset Management of the board of the Investment Association, executive vice president and chief executive and is a member of council of Cranfield of BPs gas, power and renewables business University.
Davids previous roles include the a member of the European Securities and and its alternative energy unit.
She is nonchairmanship of Aldermore Bank plc, Numis Markets Authoritys stakeholder group, an advisory council member of TheCityUK and executive director of Stena International Corporation plc, O2 plc, Severn Trent plc, is non-executive director of the Financial and of energy company BG Group plc, IPC Group and the advisory board of the and chairman of the supervisory board of British Library, as well as chief operating Reporting Council in the UK.
She is also a Vallourec, which supplies tubular systems officer of United Business Media plc, group member of the management committee of the Forum of European Asset Managers, a member for the energy industry.
She is also lead managing director of EMAP plc and a nonof the CFA Future of Finance Council and a independent director at the UK Department executive director of Telefonica S. A. David for International Development.
Vivienne is a served from 2002 to 2006 as chairman of the member of the Committee of 200.
Elizabeth commissioner of the Airports Commission, UK governments Better Regulation Task was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire CBE in the 2015 New Year which was set up by the UK government to Force, which worked on reducing burdens Honours, for services to the financial sector.
examine any requirements for additional UK on business.
She is also a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and an accomplished crime fiction author.
Non-executive Directors linda lorimer Non-executive director Harish manwani Non-executive director tim Score Non-executive director aged 62, appointed 1 July 2013 aged 61, appointed 1 October 2013 aged 54, appointed 1 January 2015 Member of the audit, nomination and Member of the nomination and reputation & Member of the audit and nomination reputation & responsibility committees responsibility committees committees Linda has a deep background in education Harish has an extensive background in emerging Tim has been chief financial officer of strategy, administration and public affairs.
She is markets and senior experience in a successful ARM Holdings plc, the worlds leading vice president for Global & Strategic Initiatives global organisation.
He was previously chief semiconductor IP company, for 13 years, at Yale University, where her duties include operating officer of consumer products with extensive experience of the technology oversight of Yales Office of International company Unilever, having joined the company sector and in both developed and emerging Affairs and Office of Digital Dissemination.
in 1976 as a marketing management trainee markets, particularly China.
He is an Over a 30-year career in higher education, in India, and held senior management roles experienced non-executive director and she has been responsible for many of Yales around the world, including North America, currently sits on the board of The British administrative services including the universitys Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia.
He served on the board public communications, alumni relations and non-executive chairman of Hindustan Unilever of National Express Group plc from 2005 to Office of Sustainability.
Previously, Linda served Limited in India, and serves on the boards of 2014, including time as interim chairman and as president of Randolph-Macon Womans Whirlpool Corporation, Qualcomm Inc. and six years as the senior independent director.
College in Virginia, and had earlier worked at Nielsen N. V. He is also on the board of the Earlier in his career Tim held senior finance Yale in several senior roles including associate Indian School of Business and the Economic roles with Rebus Group, William Baird, provost.
She is a non-executive director of Save Development Board EDB of Singapore.
the Children US and was chair of the board of the Association of American Colleges and Universities.
62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Leadership & effectiveness Board governance Board of directors Independence of directors All of the non-executive directors who served during 2014 were considered by the composition of the board The board currently consists board to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
of the chairman, Glen Moreno, two executive directors including the chief executive, John Fallon, and eight The board reviews the independence of each of the nonindependent non-executive directors.
Following the executive directors annually.
This includes reviewing their 2015 AGM, the board will consist of six independent external appointments and any potential conflicts of non-executive directors, following the retirement of interest as well as assessing their individual circumstances David Arculus and Ken Hydon.
in order to ensure that there are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect their character or judgement.
chairman and chief executive There is a defined split In addition to this review, each of the non-executive of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief directors is asked annually to complete an independence executive.
The roles and responsibilities of the chairman questionnaire to satisfy requirements arising from and chief executive are clearly defined, set out in writing Pearsons US listing.
and reviewed and agreed by the board annually.
The board has in particular considered the independence chairmans significant commitments During the course of David Arculus and Ken Hydon who have each now of2014, the chairman stepped down from his position as served for nine years.
It is the intention of both David deputy chairman of the Financial Reporting Council, and and Ken to retire as directors at the 2015 AGM, but with effect from 1 January 2015 has been appointed as a nevertheless the board believes that both directors non-executive director and chairman designate of Virgin continue to provide sufficient challenge to the Money Holdings UK plc.
deliberations of the board as a whole, and that they are sufficiently independent in character and judgement to continue to serve as independent non-executive directors for the remainder of their terms.
Key roles ROlE NAmE RESPONSIBIlItY chairman Glen Moreno The chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board and ensuring itseffectiveness.
chief John Fallon The chief executive is responsible for the operational management of the executive business and for the development and implementation of the companys strategy as agreed by the board and the Pearson executive.
Senior Vivienne Cox The senior independent directors role includes meeting regularly with independent the chairman and chief executive to discuss specific issues, as well as being director available to shareholders generally if they should have concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels.
The senior independent director has responsibility for appraising the performance of the chairman, including in relation to the effectiveness of the nomination committee, as part of the annual board evaluation process.
The senior independent director would be expected to chair the nomination committee in the event that it was considering succession to the role of chairman of the board.
Gender split of the board length of tenure of non-executive directors Men 7 Under 3 years 3 Women 3 3 to 6 years 2 7 years or more 2 Figures as at 31 December 2014 Following 2015 AGM, split will be 6:3 Figures as at 31 December 2014 Following 2015 AGM, ratio will be 4:2:0 OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS ANNUAl GENERAl mEEtING 25 APRIl 2014 Section 4 Governance 63 scheduled meeting.
The relevant director cannot vote on conflicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006 an authorisation resolution, or be counted in the quorum, the Act, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts in relation to the resolution relating to his her conflict or of interest with the company.
The companys articles of potential conflict.
The board reviews any authorisations association Articles allow the directors to authorise granted on an annual basis.
The company has established a procedure to identify actual and potential conflicts of Board meetings interest, including all directorships or other appointments The board held six full scheduled meetings in 2014, with to, or relationships with, companies which are not part discussions and debates focused on the key strategic of the Pearson Group and which could give rise to actual issues facing the company.
Major items covered by the or potential conflicts of interest.
Once notified to the board in 2014 are shown in the table below.
chairman or company secretary, such potential conflicts are considered for authorisation by the board at its next Board meetings during the year 2014 Feb 2014 Apr 2014 Jun 2014 Jul 2014 Oct 2014 Dec 2014 London London Washington DC London London New York GOvERNANcE A nnual review F ocus on B rand, reputation U pdate on Approval of ofauthorised forthcoming AGM and US Pearson committee terms conflicts of and review of government policy Foundation of reference interest shareholder issues Read more onp78 Enterprise risk R eview of division management of responsibilities review between chairman Approval of and chief executive schedule of authority limits StRAtEGY Strategic offsite 2 014 operating U pdate on new Overview of Strategic P enguin Random meeting, focusing plan organisational and US business plan update House review on: Review of product strategy Systems, supply B usiness portfolio Geographies and transformation approach chain and and transaction Lines of Business to date and plans Pearson procurement update strategic reviews, for 2014 Technology view including postfrom new chief acquisition information officer reviews F ocus sessions Financial Times and UK education Technology deep dive PERFORmANcE 2 013 report R eview of investor Interim results and T rading update T rading update and accounts relations strategy dividend approval and preliminary and dividend and share price view of 2015 recommendation performance T rading update PEOPlE Review R ising Stars Organisational R ising Stars Ta lent review remuneration breakfast design and breakfast committee Read more structure Read more recommendations on p65 on p65 In addition to its six formal meetings, the board held one further meeting in February 2014 to approve the 2013 preliminary results and to make its determination that the 2013 Annual report was fair, balanced and understandable.
The board also undertook discussions throughout the year, as required, to consider the progress and terms of corporate transactions.
64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Leadership & effectiveness Board governance continued the role and business of the board The committee has written terms of reference, reviewed The board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring and approved each year, which clearly set out its authority the companys long-term strategy, performance and and duties.
These can be found on the company website value.
We believe that it adds a valuable and diverse set at www.
com governance of external perspectives and that robust, open debate culture and values of the board about significant business issues brings a valuable As part of its annual evaluation, the board considered its additional discipline to major decisions.
own culture and dynamics, and how these have evolved A schedule of formal matters reserved for the boards alongside the wider transformation.
decision and approval is available on our website, at The board agreed that it has a real sense of collegiality, www.
com governance with an open and transparent approach where diversity The board receives timely, regular and necessary financial, ofopinion and challenge are encouraged and welcomed.
management and other information to fulfil its duties.
Asa whole and at an individual level, the board feels Comprehensive board papers are circulated to the board wholly committed to Pearsons values and mission, and and committee members at least one week in advance throughout 2014 has received regular updates on the of each meeting and the board receives regular reports transformation as it has progressed.
Learn more about from the chief executive.
In addition to meeting papers, our Board evaluation on p67 a library of current and historic corporate information is Board attendance made available to directors electronically to support the boards decision-making process.
Directors can obtain The following table sets out the attendance of the companys independent professional advice, at the companys directors at scheduled board meetings during2014: expense, in the performance of their duties as directors.
Board meetings All directors have access to the advice and services of the attended company secretary.
Chairman Non-executive directors meet with local senior Glen Moreno 6 6 management every time board and committee meetings Executive directors are held at the locations of operating companies, such as during the boards 2014 trip to Washington, DC.
John Fallon 6 6 Thisallows the non-executive directors to share their Robin Freestone 6 6 experience and expertise with senior managers as well Non-executive directors asallowing them to better understand the abilities and motivations of senior management, which in turn will David Arculus 6 6 help them assess the companys prospects and plans Elizabeth Corley 4 4 forsuccession.
Vivienne Cox 6 6 Standing committee Ken Hydon 6 6 A standing committee of the board has been established Josh Lewis 6 6 to approve certain ordinary course of business items such as banking matters, guarantees, intra-Group transactions Linda Lorimer 6 6 and routine matters relating to employee share plans.
Harish Manwani 6 6 Appointed on 1 May 2014 OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 65 Succession planning RISING StARS The board considers oversight of succession planning In addition to the boards not only at board and executive management level but for all key positions throughout the business as one of established succession planning and its prime responsibilities.
At board level, the primary talent review process for senior focus in the latter part of the year has been to identify suitable candidates for the role of chief financial officer.
roles throughout the business, The company has formal contingency plans in place for itwas decided in 2014 to initiate temporary absence of the chief executive for health or aseries of Rising Stars sessions.
The matter of chief executive succession is a standing item for discussion and review by the The first of these sessions took place over informal chairman and chief executive annually.
Succession breakfasts during each of the boards offsite meetings planning for the board and chair are also undertaken in Washington, DC and London.
The purpose of the annually.
sessions is to provide the board with the opportunity talent review to meet a cross-section of junior or mid-level The board dedicated part of its December 2014 colleagues from the host country who have been meeting to reviewing chief executive succession and the identified by senior executives as showing leadership talent pipeline at Pearson.
The boards feedback on these that, the Pearson executive team undertook a rigorous sessions in 2014 was overwhelmingly positive talent review programme, assessing performance and they valued the opportunity to meet and potential of its top 100 executives their direct reports hear from colleagues from all levels, as well as the strength of the succession pipeline for their finding the sessions rich and own roles and their teams roles.
interesting, and taking away a clearer sense of Pearsons All members of the executive team also took part in a working culture.
multi-rater feedback process 360 feedback process, receiving feedback from direct reports, colleagues and the chief executive on key leadership traits and behaviours.
At the board meeting, the board discussed chief executive succession and together they reviewed Rising Stars the 360 summary reports for the executives, as gender split well as overall themes from the 2014 employee Male 47% engagementsurvey.
Female 53% This discussion was followed by a session on the as at 31 December 2014 broader talent process, looking into succession for each executive role, analysing diversity statistics and discussing The Rising Stars offered the directors key capabilities that will be critical for the effective incredible insights into the workings of the delivery of our strategy pedagogy, technology and companys enterprises.
These men and product management.
women are a key part of the future of the As a result of this process, we are designing structured company, and we were impressed by their development plans for the top 100 executives in the sagacity and by their passion for the mission organisation and starting a deeper assessment of our of Pearson and by their good ideas for our capabilities in the areas of pedagogy, technology and collective future.
linda lorimer Non-executive director 66 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Leadership & effectiveness Board governance continued Directors training and induction Board committees Directors receive a significant bespoke induction The board has established four formal committees: programme and a range of information about Pearson theaudit committee, the nomination committee, when they join the board.
This includes background theremuneration committee, and the reputation & information on Pearson and details of board procedures, responsibility committee, which was formally constituted directors responsibilities and various governance related in 2014 having operated on an informal basis during 2013. issues, including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares The chairmen and members of these committees are and their legal obligations as directors.
The induction appointed by the board on the recommendation also includes a series of meetings with members of the whereappropriate of the nomination committee and board, the Pearson executive and senior management, inconsultation with each relevant committee chairman.
presentations regarding the business from senior Inaddition to these formal board committees, the standing committee also operates with board level input.
executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor relations programme.
The induction programmes for Elizabeth more committee information: Corley and Tim Score are ongoing, tailored to their specific interests, and relevant to the board committees AUDIt cOmmIttEE p70 they have joined.
NOmINAtION cOmmIttEE p68 All directors receive training in the form of presentations about the companys operations, through board meetings REmUNERAtION cOmmIttEE p82 held at operational locations and by encouraging the REPUtAtION & RESPONSIBIlItY directors to visit local operations and management as and cOmmIttEE p78 when their schedule allows, including if they are travelling to a country or region on non-Pearson business.
The StANDING cOmmIttEE p64 company secretary and general counsel, in conjunction with the Groups advisers, monitor legal and governance The approach adopted by the board is for committees to developments and update the board on such matters as focus on their own areas of expertise, enabling the board agreed with the chairman.
Directors can also make use of meetings to focus on governance, strategy, performance external courses.
and people, thereby making the best use of the boards time together as a whole.
The committee chairmen Directors indemnities report to the full board at each meeting immediately In accordance with section 232 of the Act, the company following their sessions, ensuring a good communication grants an indemnity to all of its directors.
The indemnity flow whilst retaining the ability to escalate items to the full relates to costs incurred by them in defending any civil or boards agenda if appropriate.
criminal proceedings and in connection with an application for relief under sections 661 3 and 4 or sections 1157 1 - Board committee attendance 3 of the Act, so long as monies are repaid not later than The following table shows attendance by directors at when the outcome becomes final if: committee meetings throughout 2014: i they are convicted in the proceedings Reputation & Audit Remuneration Nomination responsibility ii judgment is given against them or iii the court refuses to grant the relief sought.
Glen Moreno 4 4 6 6 John Fallon 6 6 As permitted by Pearsons articles of association, the David Arculus 5 5 4 4 6 6 directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined Elizabeth Corley 1 1 4 4 by section 234 of the Act.
The indemnity was in force Vivienne Cox 5 5 4 4 6 6 3 3 throughout the last financial period and is currently Ken Hydon 5 5 4 4 6 6 in force.
Josh Lewis 4 4 6 6 The company has purchased and maintains directors and Linda Lorimer 5 5 6 6 3 3 officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and Harish Manwani 6 6 3 3 costs for claims in connection with any act or omission by Joined nomination committee on 1 May 2014 and remuneration committee such directors and officers in the execution of their duties.
on 1 August 2014 OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 67 BOARD EvAlUAtION A formal evaluation of the board, its committees and conclusion and recommendations individual directors performance was completed at The review concluded that overall the board and the end of 2014. its committees remain effective in fulfilling their It is recommended by the Code that this process is responsibilities appropriately.
Actions agreed as a facilitated by a third party every three years.
This result of the evaluation included ongoing review and effectiveness review was conducted by external assessment of the strategy and its success, given the evaluator, JCA Group.
In addition to facilitating this significant transformation being undertaken by the review, JCA Group provided benchmarking and due company.
The frequency of board meetings was judged diligence services in connection with the appointment to be appropriate.
However, building on the success of ofElizabeth Corley as a non-executive director.
the recommendation of the chief executives monthly JCAGroup has no other connection to Pearson letter from last years internal board review, there was apart from in relation to board evaluation and search also a suggestion to introduce additional board calls in consultancy services.
between board meetings to keep the board current on issues and progress.
In addition, it was highlighted that it is essential the board pays continuing attention to EvAlUAtION PROcESS ensure all directors are well informed and have a deep understanding of the issues for the business and the On JCA Groups recommendation, the process for broader global education environment in order to the evaluation was as follows: provide appropriate strategic direction and challenge Initial briefing An initial briefing on the going forward.
This might include creating ongoing company to provide context and insights opportunities for board members to visit Pearsons 1 into the strategic priorities forthe business operations in different global venues.
as well as any issues or concerns to address Personal objectives more specifically In addition to the evaluation of the board as a whole, Discussion guideline Development of a executives are also evaluated each year on their discussion guideline which was shared with performance against personal objectives under the 2 the participants ahead of one-to-one meetings, companys annual incentive plan.
Learn more about our toaddress key topics but not limit the Annual incentive plan on p104 discussion to only these: such topics included The non-executive directors, led by the senior the organisation of the board, board and chair independent director, also conduct a review of the succession, judgement of thestrategy and chairmans performance.
business performance, thedynamics and composition of the board andfeedback on committee evaluation the committees and individual directors In addition to the review of the board and individual directors, the audit and remuneration committees each One-to-one meetings One-to-one meetings undergo an annual evaluation process to review their with each board member, both executive performance and effectiveness.
3 and non-executive: these conversations The process involves distribution of questionnaires to were conducted on a confidential, audit and remuneration committee members, as well as un-attributablebasis key stakeholders in each committee, seeking views on matters including committee roles and responsibilities, Effectiveness report A full report was quality and timeliness of meeting materials, opportunity presented to the board, containing the for discussion and debate, dialogue with management 4 key findings, recommendations foractions and access to independent advice.
Responses are then and suggested nextsteps evaluated and presented to the respective committee at a scheduled meeting, with key themes being drawn out for discussion.
68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Leadership & effectiveness Board governance continued NOmINAtION cOmmIttEE Nomination committee role and composition Chairman Glen Moreno The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the board and its committees, and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors and or committee members.
John Fallon stepped down from the nomination Members David Arculus, Elizabeth Corley, Vivienne Cox, Ken Hydon, Josh Lewis, Linda Lorimer, HarishManwani, committee in December 2014, although he will continue GlenMoreno and Tim Score to be available to attend committee meetings by invitation.
Elizabeth Corley and Tim Score joined the nomination committee following their appointments Key activities in 2014 to the board.
Objectives Actions committee meetings and appointments Identify and appoint additional Appointment of The nomination committee meets at least once a year and non-executive directors, at Elizabeth corley and least one of whom to be female tim Score at other times as and when required.
During 2014, the Audit committee and Appointment of tim committee met six times with its primary focus being to remuneration committee Score and Elizabeth consider suitable candidates for the role of chief financial chair succession corley as respective officer and for non-executive positions, including for the committee chairmen roles of audit and remuneration committee chairmen in commence search for new Appointment of coram preparation for the retirement from the board of Ken chief financial officer williams announced Hydon and David Arculus during 2015. to join board on 1 August 2015 The non-executive search culminated in the successful For nomination committee attendance appointment of Tim Score and Elizabeth Corley to the see overview table on p66 board, who also joined the audit and remuneration committees respectively and will assume the chairmanships of those committees following the cOmmIttEE RESPONSIBIlItIES INclUDE: AGM in April 2015.
Appointments Identifying and nominating Having considered a range of external and internal candidates for board vacancies.
candidates, we announced on 27 February 2015 that 2.
Balance Ensuring that the board and its committees Coram Williams would succeed Robin Freestone as chief have theappropriate balance of skills, experience, financial officer.
Coram will join Pearson as CFO designate independence, diversity and knowledge to on 1 July 2015 and will replace Robin on the board on operateeffectively.
Succession planning Reviewing the companys In addition, the committee continued to focus on the leadership needs with a view to ensuring the continued search for a non-executive director with insights into ability of the organisation to compete effectively in mobile and digital technology to further complement the marketplace.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 69 NOmINAtION cOmmIttEE Pearson uses a number of leading firms in its board Lord Davies has called for companies to target 25% and executive search activities.
An external search female representation on boards of FTSE 100 companies consultancy, Odgers Berndtson, was used during the by 2015.
Pearson is committed to having at least 30% recruitment process for Tim Score.
Odgers Berndtson female directors within Lord Davies 2015 timeframe does not have any other connection to Pearson apart and currently has three female directors on its board from as a search consultancy.
With the forthcoming retirement of David Arculus and Ken Hydon in the coming The committee identified Elizabeth Corley as a potential months, this figure is expected to increase to 33%.
non-executive candidate and an external search agency, JCA Group, provided benchmarking and due diligence Immediately below board level, the Pearson executive, services in connection with Elizabeths appointment.
not including the chief executive and chief financial officer In addition to these services, JCA Group facilitated who are main board directors, has three female members Pearsons board evaluation in 2014. out of a total of 12 representing 25%.
Our senior leadership team, up to and including two reporting levels Learnmore about the Board of directors on p60 from the chief executive, shows a strong pipeline of chairman role female talent with women representing 35% of our senior leaders.
Although the chairman of the board chairs the nomination committee, he is not permitted to chair Pearson considers diversity as an important issue across meetings when the appointment of his successor is the Group, not just at board level.
One of the key aims being considered or during a discussion regarding his ofPearsons diversity policy is to increase the number performance.
At such times, the senior independent of leaders coming from a diverse background, including director will chair the meetings.
advancing more women into leadership positions such as through our Women in Learning and Leadership terms of reference programme for employees.
The committee has written terms of reference which Learnmore about Diversity throughout Pearson clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are reviewed on p50 annually and can be found on the company website at www.
com governance Diversity The board embraces the Codes underlying principles with regard to board balance and diversity, including Glen moreno chairman of nomination committee gender diversity.
The nomination committee, led by the chairman, ensures that the directors of Pearson demonstrate a broad balance of skills, experience and nationality, to support Pearsons strategic development and reflect the global nature of the Groups business.
The committee and the board always take account of diversity in its broadest sense when considering board appointments whilst ensuring that appointments are made based on merit and relevant experience.
