Governance and remuneration Board of Directors Composition Experience Tenure Executive 43% Industry 43% 0-3 years 29% Non-executive 57% Finance 43% 4-6 years 14% inc. Chairman Governance 14% 7-10 years 57% Male 86% Female 14% The Board considers each of its The Board has a target in its diversity The Board believes its Directors have Non-executive Directors to be policy to achieve 25% female an appropriate range of experience to independent in accordance with the representation by 2015. the business of the Group.
Chairman Kenneth George Harvey CBE, BSc Chairman Appointed on 1 March 1997 Committees: Nomination Chairman Ken was formerly chairman and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was previously deputy chairman of London Electricity and earlier its engineering director.
He has also been chairman of a number of limited and private equity funded companies.
He was until July 2013 the senior independent director of National Grid Holdings Plc.
Executive Directors David Jeremy Dupont Christopher Loughlin Ian James McAulay MA, MBA BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA BEng, CEng, VIWEM Group Director of Finance Chief Executive, South West Water Chief Executive, Viridor Appointed on 2 March 2002 Appointed on 1 August 2006 Appointed on 9 September 2013 Committees: Sustainability Committees: Sustainability David was formerly regulatory and finance director of South West Water Limited, Chris was previously chief operating Ian was previously chief of global strategy having joined Pennon Group Plc then officer with Lloyds Register and earlier in and corporate development with MWH South West Water Plc in 1992 as his career was an executive director of Global based in the US.
Previously he strategic planning manager.
Previously he British Nuclear Fuels Plc and executive was the managing director, capital held business planning and development chairman of Magnox Electric Plc.
He was programmes, at United Utilities Plc.
Ian roles with Gateway Corporation.
He is a also a senior diplomat in the British started his career as a consulting civil member of the CBI South West Regional Embassy, Tokyo.
Chris started his career engineer and held a number of positions Council and the Theatre Royal Plymouth as a chartered engineer working in both with Crouch and Hogg in Glasgow and Development Advisory Group.
the consulting and contracting sectors subsequently Montgomery Watson, and subsequently held a number of which merged in 2001 with Harza to form senior positions with British Nuclear MWH Global.
Between April 2008 and March 2012 he was chairman of Water UK.
Currently Chris is vice-chairman of the Cornwall Local Enterprise Partnership and a trustee and member of the audit committee of the global charity WaterAid.
Until June he was also president of the Institute of Water.
52 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Non-executive Directors Martin David Angle Gerard Dominic Connell BSc Hons, FCA, MCSI MA Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Appointed on 1 December 2008 Appointed on 1 October 2003 Committees: Audit, Sustainability, Nomination, Committees: Audit Chairman, Sustainability, Remuneration Chairman Nomination, Remuneration Martin currently holds non-executive directorships with Gerard currently is also a non-executive director and Savills Plc, OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital psc and The chairman of the audit committee of the Defence National Exhibition Group where he is chairman.
In Science and Technology Laboratory, a non-executive addition he sits on the board of the FIA Foundation director of the Land Registry, an independent director where he is vice-chairman.
Formerly he held senior of the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund Company positions with Terra Firma Capital Partners and various Limited and a council member of the Science & of its portfolio companies, including the executive Technology Facilities Council.
He was previously chairmanship of Waste Recycling Group Limited.
group finance director of Wincanton plc.
Before that Before that he was the group finance director of TI he was a director of Hill Samuel and a managing Group Plc and held a number of senior investment director of Bankers Trust, having trained originally at banking positions with SG Warburg & Co. Ltd, Morgan Price Waterhouse.
He is also a governor of Kings Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting in 2014 Gerard is due to retire following the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Group Company Secretary Gill Ann Rider Kenneth David Woodier CB, PhD, FCIPD Solicitor, CMA, DMS, CPE Law Non-executive Director Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Appointed on 1 September 2012 Appointed Company Secretary to the Board in March Committees: Audit, Sustainability Chairman with effect 1998 from 2 August 2013, Nomination, Remuneration Ken was formerly the head of group legal services Gill currently holds non-executive directorships with at Pennon Group Plc then South West Water Plc Charles Taylor Plc, the Chartered Institute of Personnel from February 1990.
Previously he held senior legal & Development where she is president and fide La positions with H. P. Bulmer Holdings Plc, Investors Rue Plc where she is chairman of the remuneration in Industry Plc 3i and Severn Trent Water.
She is also chair of council of the director of the Devon & Somerset Law Society and a University of Southampton.
Formerly Gill was head member of its Governance Committee.
of the Civil Service Capability Group in the Cabinet Office reporting to the Cabinet Secretary and prior to that held a number of senior positions with Accenture culminating in the post of chief leadership officer for the global firm.
co. uk 2014 53 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
