Governance and remuneration Directors report Introduction Directors insurance and indemnities This Directors report is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and regulations made The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions thereunder.
It comprises the following two pages and the contained in the Companys Articles, and the Company has matters disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report as follows: maintained throughout the year Directors and officers liability insurance for the benefit of the Company, the Directors and its list of Directors during the year single total figure of officers.
The Company has entered into qualifying third party remuneration tables on page 84 of the Directors indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a remuneration report : form and scope which comply with the requirements of the internal control and risk management systems pages 59 and Companies Act 2006 and which were in force throughout the 60 of the governance report : year and remain in force.
likely future developments of the Company pages 7, 17 and Statement as to disclosure of information to the Auditors 23 of the strategic report : a.
So far as each of the Directors in office at the date of the inclusion and diversity page 55 of this report and page 68 of signing of the report is aware, there is no relevant audit the governance report : information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: provision of information to and consultation with employees and page 55 of this report : b. each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director carbon emissions page 44 of the sustainability report : ought to have taken individually as a Director in order to Directors responsibilities statements page 60 of the make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit governance report information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
financial instruments pages 109, 110 and 130 of the notes to the financial statements : important post-balance sheet events page 157 of the financial statements : governance information relating to the securities of the Company, voting rights and in the event of a takeover bid page 61 of the governance report.
Financial results and dividend The Directors recommend a final dividend of 20.92p per Ordinary share to be paid on 3 October 2014 to shareholders on the register on 8 August 2014, making a total dividend for 1 the year of 30.31p, the cost of which will be 112.7 million, 2 leaving a transfer to reserves of 29.8 million.
The strategic report on pages 2 to 47 analyses the Groups financial results in more detail and sets out other financial information.
1 The cost of the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 excludes the impact of any conversion of the 125 million convertible bond between the year end and 8 August 2014.
2 The amount transferred to retained earnings is after a payment of 15.6 million net of tax to holders of the Companys perpetual capital securities.
54 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Employment policies and employee involvement Research and development The Group has a culture of continuous improvement Research and development within the Group involving through investment in people at all levels within the water and waste treatment processes amounted to Group.
The Group is committed to pursuing equality 0.1 million during the year 2012 13 0.2 million.
and diversity in all its employment activities including Pennon Group donations recruitment, training, career development and No political donations were made or political promotion and ensuring there is no bias or expenditure incurred and no contributions were made discrimination in the treatment of people.
In particular, to a non-EU political party 2012 13 nil.
applications for employment are welcomed from persons with disabilities, and special arrangements Purchase of own ordinary shares and adjustments as necessary are made to ensure The Company has authority from shareholders to that applicants are treated fairly when attending for purchase up to 10% of its own ordinary shares as interview or for pre-employment aptitude tests.
renewed at the Annual General Meeting in 2013, Wherever possible the opportunity is taken to retrain which was valid as at 31 March 2014 and remains people who become disabled during their employment currently valid.
Of the 2,105,836 shares held in in order to maintain their employment within the Treasury at 31 March 2013, 823,146 were Group.
The Board also has a diversity policy and subsequently re-issued under the Companys encourages gender diversity in particular.
Further employee share schemes for proceeds of 2.4 million.
details are set out in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 68.
Employees are consulted regularly about changes By Order of the Board which may affect them either through their trade Ken Woodier union-appointed representatives or by means of the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary elected staff council which operates in South West 23 June 2014 Water for staff employees.
These forums, together with regular meetings with particular groups of employees, are used to ensure that employees are kept up-to-date with the operating and financial performance of their employer.
The Group also cascades information monthly to all employees to provide them with important and up to date information about key events and to obtain feedback from them.
Further information about employment matters relating to the Group are set out on pages 15, 23 and 43 of the strategic report.
The Group encourages share ownership among its employees by operating an HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan which are, subject to shareholder approval at this years AGM, being amended to provide for the increased savings limits approved by Government.
At 31 March 2014 around one-third of the Groups employees were participating in these plans.
co. uk 2014 55 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
