Corporate governance and internal control Internal control Wider aspects of internal control We also have a whistleblowing policy and we thoroughly investigate any allegations of misconduct The Board is responsible for maintaining the Group's and irregularity and consider the implications for our system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' control environment in accordance with the policy.
In investment and the Group's assets and for reviewing the normal course of business investigations into its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage irregularities may be ongoing as of the date of the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve approval of the financial statements.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for effective control and risk management is embedded identifying, evaluating and managing the significant within the organisation and that the Group is in a risks faced by the Group that has been in place position to react appropriately to new risks as they throughout 2013 14 and up to the date of the arise.
Details of key risks affecting the Group are set approval of this Annual Report & Accounts.
out in the strategic report on pages 30 to 35.
The Board confirms that it continues to apply Internal control framework procedures in accordance with the UK Code and the The Group also has a well-established internal control 'Guidance on Internal Control' The Turnbull Guidance framework which is operated and which applies in that suggests means of applying the internal control relation to the process for preparing the Group's part of the Code.
As part of these procedures the consolidated accounts.
Board has a Group risk management policy which provides for the identification of key risks in relation to This framework comprises: the achievement of the business objectives of the a clearly defined structure which delegates an Group, monitoring of such risks and annual evaluation appropriate level of authority, responsibility and of the overall process, as described in more detail accountability, including responsibility for internal below.
The policy is applied by all business units within financial control, to management of operating units the Group in accordance with an annual timetable.
a comprehensive budgeting and reporting function Risk identification with an annual budget approved by the Board, A full risk and control assessment is undertaken which also monitors the financial reporting process, annually by the management of each business to monthly results and updated forecasts for the year identify financial and non-financial risks, which are then against budget regularly updated.
Each business compiles as part of documented financial control procedures.
Managers regular management reports an enhanced and of operating units are required to confirm annually focused assessment of key risks against corporate that they have adequate financial controls in objectives.
At each meeting the Board receives from operation and to report all material areas of financial the Executive Directors details of any new high-level risk.
Compliance with procedures is reviewed and risks identified and how they are to be managed, tested by the Company's internal audit function together with details of any changes to existing risks an investment appraisal process for evaluating and their management.
The subsidiary boards of proposals for all major capital expenditure and South West Water and Viridor also receive at each acquisitions, with defined levels of approval and a meeting similar reports in respect of their own areas of system for monitoring the progress of capital responsibility.
In addition the Group Director of Finance projects is responsible for monitoring the Group risk register a post-investment evaluation process for major and for reporting on key risks and how they are capital expenditure and acquisitions to assess the managed at regular intervals to the Audit Committee success of the project and learn any lessons to be and to the Board.
All Executive Directors and senior managers are required to certify on an annual basis that they have effective controls in place to manage risks and to operate in compliance with legislation and Group procedures.
co. uk 2014 59 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Governance and remuneration Corporate governance and internal control Continued Directors' responsibilities statements Internal control review The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall internal control the Directors' remuneration report and the financial statements compliance by the Group is undertaken in respect of each in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial year and subsequently up to the date of this report to assist the Audit Committee in considering the Group internal Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial audit plan for the forthcoming financial year and also the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors strategic report for the Annual Report.
The Group General have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in Counsel & Company Secretary initially carries out the evaluation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards with Executive Directors and senior management, for IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
consideration by the Audit Committee and subsequently for final evaluation by the Board.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a In addition the Audit Committee regularly reviews the operation true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the and effectiveness of the internal control framework and annually Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
reviews the scope of work, authority and resources of the In preparing these financial statements the Directors are Company's internal audit function.
The Committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board on such reviews.
For required to: 2013 14 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Report & Accounts, both the Audit Committee and the Board consistently were satisfied with the effectiveness of the Group risk make judgements and accounting estimates which are management policy and the internal control framework and their reasonable and prudent operation within the Group.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Further information on the internal control review is set out in the Union have been followed, subject to any material departures Audit Committee report on page 63. disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Going concern The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above Having considered the Groups funding position and financial requirements in preparing the financial statements.
projections the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Group has adequate resource to continue in operational records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the time the financial position of the Group and the Company: and financial statements.
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors' remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 52 and 53, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: a.
The financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and of the Company, and b.
The Directors' report contained on pages 54 and 55 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website www.
co. uk Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
60 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance statements e. The Directors have the power to make purchases of the Company's own shares in issue as set out in the The following disclosures are made pursuant to Part 6 Directors' report on page 55 'Purchase of own of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized ordinary shares'.
No such purchases have been Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports made during the year.
The Directors also have the Regulations 2008 and Rule 7.2.
R of the UK Listing authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal Authority's Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
value of: i 49,521,023 such amount to be As at 31 March 2014: reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted under ii below in excess of 49,521,023 or: ii a.
Details of the Company's issued share capital, 99,042,046 by way of a rights issue such amount which consists of Ordinary shares of nominal value to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights 40.7 pence each, are set out in note 34 to the granted from i above, which were approved by financial statements on pages 148 to 150.
All of the shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting Company's issued shares are fully paid up, rank AGM.
In addition shareholders approved a equally in all respects and are listed on the Official resolution giving the Directors a limited authority to List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The allot shares for cash other than pro rata to existing rights and obligations attaching to the Company's shareholders.
These resolutions remain valid until shares, in addition to those conferred on their the conclusion of this year's AGM.
Similar holders by law, are set out in the Company's Articles resolutions will be proposed at this year's AGM.
The of Association 'Articles', copies of which can be Directors have no present intention to issue Ordinary obtained from Companies House in the UK or by shares other than pursuant to the Company's writing to the Group Company Secretary at the employee share schemes, Scrip Dividend Alternative Company's registered office.
The holders of the and the convertible bond referred to in the financial Company's shares are entitled to receive the review on page 28: and Company's reports and accounts and in relation to general meetings of the Company they have the f. There are a number of agreements which take right to attend and speak, exercise voting rights and effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of appoint proxies: the Company following a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, eurobond documentation, hybrid b.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of issued capital securities documentation, private placement shares of the Company or on the exercise of voting debt and employees' share plans.
This may result in rights attached to them, except where the Company certain funding agreements being altered or repaid has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights early.
The impact on employees share plans is not or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of considered significant their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by The UK Corporate Governance Code statement it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act of compliance 2006 or where their holder is precluded from Upon the advice of the Audit Committee the Board exercising voting rights by the Financial Conduct considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is Authority's Listing Rules or the City Code on fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Takeovers and Mergers: information necessary for shareholders to assess the c. Details of significant direct or indirect holdings of Groups performance, business model and strategy.
securities of the Company are set out in the As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys shareholder analysis on page 160: Listing Rules, the independent auditors have d. The Company's rules about the appointment and considered the Directors statement of compliance in replacement of Directors are contained in the relation to those provisions of the UK Corporate Articles and accord with usual English company law Governance Code which are specified for their review.
The powers of Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from time to time.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by the Company's shareholders by passing a special resolution: www.
co. uk 2014 61 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Governance and remuneration Corporate governance and internal control Continued The Audit Committee Audit Committee composition and meetings The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings during 2013 14 is set out below: Members Appointment date Attendance Gerard Connell October 2003 7 7 Committee chairman Martin Angle December 2008 7 7 Dinah Nichols June 2003 3 3 Gill Rider September 2012 6 7 Retired August 2013.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the report on the Audit Committees Other regular attendees to our meetings include: activities during the year.
Our two key tasks have again been to Group Director of Finance consider the integrity and balance of the Groups financial Chief Executive, South West Water reporting and to discuss, challenge and test our risk assurance processes.
Our primary objectives have therefore been to seek Chief Executive, Viridor to ensure that our external reporting is fair, balanced and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary understandable and that our risk assurance processes continue Finance & Regulatory Director, South West Water to give clear and comprehensive oversight and control of risks and opportunities across the business.
Finance Director, Viridor Group Financial Controller During the year South West Water was heavily engaged in the regulatory review of its industry with consequent uncertainty for its Group Audit Manager business and operations over the next regulatory period.
continued its process of transformation towards a new business In addition the Chairman of the Group, Ken Harvey, has an open model with significant management focus on the future shape of invitation to attend the meetings and during the last year has its organisational structure, the renewal of its business systems attended when the Committee has reviewed the half year and and the delivery of its major capital programme.
full year financial results of the Group.
In the course of the year we discussed and considered In accordance with the UK Code the Board has determined that developments in the subsidiary companies and Group risk Gerard Connell and Martin Angle both have recent and relevant registers as a consequence of these changes, kept under review financial experience.
In addition, Gerard Connell, who has now the focus and prioritisation of our assurance activities and been a non-executive director and chairman of the Audit challenged the executive teams to consider changes to our Committee since October 2003, has been determined by the existing processes and controls where we thought it necessary to Board as continuing to be independent in character and do so.
As part of our year-end-work we then reflected upon judgement notwithstanding his length of tenure.
He will step whether judgements in relation to significant issues remained valid down as chairman of the Audit Committee following the given developments in the year and whether any new issues of appointment of a further non-executive director who is expected significance had emerged which required more detailed review to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Both significant matters considered by the Committee during 2013 14 and significant issues considered in All of the Committee members are also members of the relation to the year-end financial statements are further explained Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide input in this report.
into both Committees on any Group performance matters and on the management of any risk factors relevant to remuneration This is my last report as chairman of the Group Audit Committee.
I would therefore like to thank both executive and non-executive colleagues, our internal audit team and our external auditors for the open, challenging and constructive nature of discussions at the Committee.
Debates have been robust and I am confident that the Group is better positioned for resilience and growth as a result.
Gerard Connell Audit Committee Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Director 62 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Significant matters considered by the Committee during 2013 14 The Committee has an established annual calendar of business which assists in ensuring that it manages its affairs efficiently and effectively throughout the year concentrating on the key matters which affect the Group.
The most significant matters which the Committee considered and made decision on during the year are set out below: Financial reporting Internal control and External auditors Risk management Governance compliance Monitored the integrity Reviewed quarterly Considered the Reviewed risk Discussed annual of the financial internal audit reports on auditors report on their management evaluation exercise of statements of the audit reviews across review of the 2012 13 framework and the Committee and Company and the half the Group during the Annual Results compliance with that agreed action plans to year and full year year including on major focusing on key framework during further improve the results announcements contracts, site findings.
2012 13 and after the Committees relating to the operations and year 2013 14. performance including Reviewed and Companys financial recycling activities.
a review of the monitored the ratio of Reviewed the performance including Committees terms of Reviewed the internal audit non-audit assessment of the risks reviewing significant reference.
control framework for expenditure during by the Executive financial reporting the Group.
Considered and judgements contained approved new annual in the statements.
Monitored the financial Assessed the external Reviewed Group risk report disclosure performance on auditors and their register and considered Reviewed and requirements including specific matters effectiveness in respect appropriate areas of recommended to the the audit report.
including Viridors of the 2012 13 external focus and prioritisation Board the approval of Project Enterprise audit process.
for the audit work Reviewed a number of the 2012 13 preliminary business programme for the updated Group policies results announcement, Recommended to the transformation project.
covering treasury the 2013 Annual Board the rearrangements, Report & Accounts appointment of the Received as part of the guarantees and tax.
including the financial external auditors for risk management statements and the 2013 14 and for review the annual Confirmed compliance 2013 14 half year approval at the Annual report on any with the UK Code.
Regularly held separate also for the Committee Considered and meetings with the to agree the external approved a process for external auditors and auditors remuneration.
confirming and the internal group audit recommending to the Considered and manager without Board that the 2013 14 approved the 2013 14 members of Annual Report and audit plan and audit fee management being Accounts including the proposal and set present.
financial statements is performance Considered and fair, balanced and expectations for the approved external audit understandable in external auditors.
tender process for accordance with new Considered the initial appointment of new reporting requirements.
results of the 2013 14 auditor firm from audit.
Also received presentations from Agreed and monitored auditor candidates and the provision of recommended to the non-audit services for Board appointment of 2013 14 by the new auditors from external auditors firm 2014 15. in accordance with the Group policy.
co. uk 2014 63 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Governance and remuneration Corporate governance and internal control Continued The Audit Committee Continued In respect of the monitoring of the integrity of the financial Committees meetings throughout the year the Committee and statements, which is a key responsibility of the Committee the external auditors have discussed the significant issues identified in the UK Code, the significant issues considered in arising in respect of financial reporting during the year and the relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March areas of particular audit focus, as reported on in the 2014 are set out in the following table, together with details of independent auditors report on pages 97 to 101. how each matter was addressed by the Committee.
At the Significant issues the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee considered in relation to the financial statements Going concern basis for the The Board, on a monthly basis, receives an update from the Group Finance Director on the financial preparation of the financial performance of the Group including forward looking assessments of covenant compliance and funding levels.
The Board also regularly reviews and challenges rolling 5-year strategy projections and the resultant headroom relative to borrowings.
A report to the Audit Committee, prepared by the Group Finance Director at each half year and year-end, focuses on the Groups liquidity over the 18 months subsequent to a period end and the Groups solvency over a longer period.
This report, and the external auditors comments and views on the validity of the going concern assumption which are set out in their year-end report, provide the basis for a detailed review and discussion of the key issues at the Committee.
These discussions, together with the ongoing monitoring of the Groups business model and financial performance, provide the evidence on which the Committee forms its assessment.
Viridor: asset impairment There has again been considerable focus at this year-end on the provisions and the carrying value of assets in and provisions.
the Viridor and Group balance sheets.
Underlying assumptions, both in respect of markets and individual operating sites, have been discussed and reviewed with executive management, including consideration of external market research where appropriate, at both subsidiary and Group Board levels, before being considered and challenged again at the Audit Committee.
At our year-end audit clearance meeting, the Group Director of Finance tabled a report summarising the key issues, and Committee members asked questions of both the Viridor Chief Executive and the Group Director of Finance and discussed the detailed sensitivity analysis in respect of key assumptions carried out by the external auditors in respect of both a 'base case' and a 'sensitised case'.
South West Water: bad debt Both the South West Water board and the Group Board receive regular updates, and more detailed reports if provision.
felt necessary, on progress against debt collection targets.
Performance is monitored regularly against both South West Water's historical collection record and the track record of other companies in the sector.
At the year-end the external auditors reported on the work they had performed.
The Committee discussed the results of this report at the year-end and asked questions of both the South West Water Chief Executive and the Finance Director before forming a view on management's assessment of the year-end position.
The Group takes a prudent view of its tax position and has a general policy of only releasing tax provisions when matters under discussion are expected to be cleared by HM Revenue & Customs.
If any outstanding issues are considered potentially material, such matters are also discussed, and challenged where necessary, at Group Board level.
Expert external legal advice is sought as and when appropriate.
The external auditors reported on the work they had performed in respect of tax provisions in the Group balance sheet.
Questions raised by this review were addressed at the year-end audit clearance meeting of the Audit Committee and the Group Director of Finance was asked to justify the proposed treatment of certain items.
The Committee also considered at the year-end the tax and accounting treatment of certain structured treasury transactions used to seek to enhance yield and overall interest performance on the Group's cash balances and sought the views of both the external auditors and the Group Director of Finance.
During the year the Committee received external assurance reports on both the Group tax and treasury functions and updated policies in certain areas as a consequence.
Further consideration will be given in 2014 15 to the Group's policies and activities in relation to tax and treasury.
The key issues reviewed by the Audit Committee at year-end in respect of revenue recognition related to the accrual for metered billing within South West Water and service concession arrangements under IFRIC 12 at Viridor.
The Committee relied primarily on South West Waters track record of assessing appropriate levels of accrual at previous year-ends, and Viridor's internal processes for analysing complex long-term contracts.
The Committee also considered the work in respect of these areas at the year-end by the external auditors.
64 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Effectiveness of the external audit process all non-audit related services, where necessary, being performed by personnel independent of the As reported in previous Annual Reports we continue to audit engagement team: monitor carefully the effectiveness of our external auditors as well as their independence, bearing in the auditors being in a position whereby they will mind that it is recognised there is an ongoing need to appropriately evaluate the results of a judgement use our external auditors firm for non-audit services.
or service: We have full regard to the Auditing Practices Boards no work being undertaken that would require the ethical standards and ensure that our procedures and auditors to act in a capacity as an advocate: safeguards meet these standards.
no aspect of the auditing engagement partners We reported last year that our policy was to review the performance being assessed on the level of nonprovision of the external audit in accordance with best audit fees charged to the Company: and practice and in line with the UK Code, which included the Committee chairman meeting with the auditors putting out to tender the external audit service at least independent senior partner periodically to discuss every 10 years.
As the last review was undertaken in the scope and performance of their work.
2006 when the current auditors were appointed following a comprehensive competitive tender Provision of non-audit services process, apart from the usual annual reviews, the The Committee has a new more restrictive policy for intention of the Committee was not to re-tender the the engagement of the external auditors firm for audit until after the rotation of the current audit partner.
The policy involves the Group Director However, while the Committee is satisfied with the of Finance setting out in a report to the Committee the auditors independence and objectivity, following reasons why the auditors firm should be appointed for discussion with a major shareholder and upon the any material work.
The Committee carefully reviews recommendation of the Committee the Board decided whether it is necessary for the auditors firm to carry to re-tender the audit a year early.
The process out such work and will only grant approval for their followed in re-tendering and the outcome of the appointment if they are satisfied that the auditors re-tender is reported on later in this section.
independence and objectivity is fully safeguarded.
Also The effectiveness review of the external auditors is if there is another accounting firm which can provide undertaken as part of the Committees annual the required level of experience and expertise in performance evaluation.
This includes reviewing and respect of non-audit services then such firm would be testing the work of the external auditors in respect of chosen in preference to the external auditors.
the audits that the auditors undertakes, the challenges It is once again recognised that the level of non-audit to management on financial judgements being made, fees payable to the Companys audit firm in the past demonstrating up-to-date knowledge of technical year was in excess of the audit fee paid.
This was issues and communicating best practice and industry primarily due to fees paid to the corporate finance arm trends in reporting.
The performance of the external of the auditors firm in relation to the major new Public auditors following the preparation of the financial Private Partnership PPP contract gains by Viridor, statements for 2012 13 was highly rated.
agreed upon procedures and advisory services in Auditor independence relation to South West Water's PR14 submissions and The Committee carefully reviews on an ongoing basis pensions advisory services.
The Committee the relationship with the external auditors to ensure considered that the external auditors were best placed that the auditors independence and objectivity is fully to provide certain agreed upon procedures and safeguarded.
This is supported by the external advisory services in connection with South West auditors ensuring that the senior partner responsible Water's PR14 submissions because of their for the external audit of the Group remained knowledge of South West Water's business, responsible for such audit for no more than five years accounting policies and practices.
Furthermore, and that there is a quality review partner who is Ofwats best practice guidance included an involved in planning the audit and in the reviewing of expectation of external auditors reporting in relation to the final accounts of the Company including assessing the submissions.
The Committee also considered that any significant matters which may be identified in the the external auditors were best placed to provide audit.
Group pension advisory services because of their relevant experience in the water sector.
The The external auditors have reported on their Committee carefully considers the reasons for the independence and have confirmed to the Committee engagement of the auditors firm in accordance with that they have complied with all relevant guidance the process described above.
The external auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board and have firm has only been engaged to undertake the nonimplemented appropriate safeguards for all non-audit audit work on the basis that the Committee was fully services including: satisfied that the continuing independence of the external auditors was maintained due to the safeguards followed by the auditors firm described in the previous section.
co. uk 2014 65 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Governance and remuneration Corporate governance and internal control Continued The Audit Committee Continued PPP and similar contracts are of vital importance to the longInternal audit term strategic development of Viridor and it is critical that Viridor The internal audit activities of the Group remain particularly is able to benefit from the best advice available in the market.
The Group has a long-standing The number of such contract opportunities is now declining, and effective centralised internal audit function led by an which would have led to a corresponding decline in fees experienced head of function who makes a significant payable to the corporate finance arm of the current external contribution to the ability of the Committee to deliver its auditors.
Nevertheless as described in the following section the responsibilities.
current external auditors, subject to approval at the Companys forthcoming AGM, will no longer be the external auditors to the A Group internal audit plan continues to be approved in Company from August 2014.
It takes account of the activities to be undertaken by the external auditors and also the Groups annual The Group Director of Finance regularly reports to the and ongoing risk management reviews.
This approach seeks to Committee on the extent of services provided to the Company ensure that there is a programme of internal and external audit by the external auditors and the level of fees paid.
The fees paid reviews focused on key risk areas throughout the Group.
to the external auditors firm for non-audit services and for audit services are set out in note 8 to the financial statements on The Group Audit Manager reports quarterly to the Committee page 120. on audit reviews undertaken and their findings and there are regular information discussions and meetings between the Audit firm tendering Group Audit Manager and the Committee chairman.
Due to the decision of the Board to re-tender audit services for The areas of the business that received attention from Group the Company in the current year rather than wait until the end of internal audit over the past year included: the 10-year period in 2015, the Committee approved an audit tender process recommended by the Group Director of Finance Pennon Group treasury, Group treasury log audits, Group in September 2013.
This process followed the notes on best taxation and Group carbon management and reporting: practice in respect of audit tenders published by the Financial South West Water customer service, accounts payable, Reporting Council in July 2013.
The process followed was: payroll and related HR processes, cash processing, credit initial identification of a selection criteria and assessment management and debt collection: and mechanism: Viridor bank and cash management: Greater Manchester consideration of the candidates to be invited to tender sub-contract process Joint Venture : TPSCo Joint Venture including those outside the Big Four: processes: capital expenditure: payroll and related HR processes: purchasing and procurement: environmental discussion with the potential auditors to ensure they were free provisioning revisit: and Project Enterprise business to compete under independence rules: transformation project.
design of a detailed tender document with input from the chairman of the Committee: Fair, balanced and understandable assessment initial review of tenders received by the Group Director of To enable the Committee to provide support to the Finance and his team involving the chairman of the Board in making its statement that it considered that the Committee: Companys Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and interviewing of the preferred candidates initially by the Group understandable FBU on page 61, the Committee initially Director of Finance and the Group Financial Controller and received advice from its external auditors on an appropriate then subsequently by the Committee followed by a FBU assessment process.
It subsequently approved its recommendation to the Board on the preferred appointment: own FBU process which had been prepared by the Group and Company Secretary following consultation with the chairman allowing for sufficient time for an orderly handover and of the Committee and the Group Director of Finance.
The transition involving the incoming auditors at key stages in the FBU process took account of the Groups well-documented prior periods audit.
verification process undertaken in conjunction with the Subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM the Board preparation of the Annual Report & Accounts.
This is in addition approved the appointment of Ernst & Young in February as the to the formal process carried out by the external auditors to incoming auditors with effect from August 2014.
Since February enable the preparation of the independent auditors report Ernst & Young have followed an orientation programme with key which is set out on pages 97 to 101. management in the Company and attended, with the current In preparing and finalising the 2014 Annual Report and external auditors, the meeting of the Committee at which the Accounts the Committee considered a report on the actions preliminary results for the year were considered and discussed taken by management in accordance with the FBU process and for recommendation to the Board.
an FBU assessment undertaken by the subsidiary boards.
This assisted the Committee in carrying out its own assessment and being able to advise the Board that it considered that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
66 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 The Sustainability Committee Members Appointment date Attendance Dinah Nichols November 2006 4 4 Committee chairman Gill Rider September 2012 6 6 Committee chairman Martin Angle December 2008 6 6 Gerard Connell November 2006 6 6 # Colin Drummond November 2006 4 4 Christopher November 2006 6 6 Loughlin Ian McAulay September 2013 2 2 The Sustainability Committee's duties, in the context Retired in August 2013.
Dinah Nichols was replaced as of the requirement for companies to conduct their chairman by Gill Rider in August 2013. business in a responsible manner in relation to # Retired in September 2013. environmental, social and governance ESG matters, are to review the strategies, policies, management, initiatives, targets and performance of the Pennon In addition the Committee considered: Group of companies in the areas of occupational health and safety and security: environment: the 2013 14 Group, South West Water and Viridor workplace policies: non-financial regulatory sustainability reports: and the associated verifier's compliance and the role of the Group in society.
reports for 2013 14 and his recommendations for the 2014 15 reports During the year the Committee considered a wide range of matters in accordance with its terms of progress against the sustainability targets for reference including: 2013 14 sustainability targets for 2014 15 developments and progress in carbon management and reduction the annual review of the coverage and appropriateness of Group policies.
the Groups pollution and compliance performance Committee performance evaluation results division of responsibilities between the Pennon Group and South West Water Sustainability the Groups participation in external benchmarking Committees systems.
the impact of the Group's charitable donations and In reporting on sustainability, the Company has sought community support to comply with the Association of British Insurers' Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure.
The the Group's health and safety performance and strategic report on pages 36 to 47 contains the plans Group's 2014 annual sustainability report.
the Group's workplace and other Group policies and performance.
co. uk 2014 67 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Governance and remuneration Corporate governance and internal control Continued The Nomination Committee Diversity policy The Boards diversity policy confirms that the Board is committed to: the search for Board candidates being conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender: satisfying itself that plans are in place for orderly succession of appointments to the Board and to senior management to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Group and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
In addition within the spirit of Principle B.
2 of the UK Code, the Board will endeavour to achieve and subsequently maintain:- a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board by 2015: and The Nomination Committee meets in accordance with an a minimum of 25% female representation on the Groups annual calendar to consider succession planning, equality and senior management team by 2015. diversity reports and periodically as necessary to manage the Currently as disclosed with the Directors biographies on page Board appointment process and recommend to the Board 52 the Group has 14% female representation at Board level.
suitable candidates for appointment as executive and nonThis represents a reduction from 25% when Dinah Nichols executive directors to the Board and also to the boards of retired from the Board on 1 August 2013.
The Board remains South West Water and Viridor.
committed to achieving the 25% level by 2015.
It is the practice of the Committee, led by the chairman, to In a workforce of around 4,500 at 31 March 2014 around 19% appoint an external search consultancy to assist in board were women.
appointments to ensure that an extensive and robust search can be made for suitable candidates.
As well as its diversity policy the Group has a number of policies in place embracing workplace matters, including nonDuring the year the Committee considered: discrimination and equal opportunities policies which are its annual performance evaluation: reported on separately in the strategic report.
the appointment of a new Chief Executive, Viridor, and a The Committee is required by the Board to review and monitor chairman of the Viridor board: compliance with the Boards diversity policy and report on the reviewed succession plans throughout the Group targets, achievement against those targets and overall reviewed diversity and equality policies and practice compliance in the Annual Report each year.
The appointment of the Chief Executive, Viridor, was undertaken with the assistance of an external search consultant Zygos, which had no other connection with the Company.
After the year end the same external search consultant has assisted on a non-executive director appointment to the Board, which is expected to culminate in an appointment shortly.
Members Appointment date Attendance Kenneth Harvey March 1997 2 2 Committee chairman Martin Angle December 2008 2 2 Gerard Connell October 2003 2 2 Dinah Nichols June 2003 1 1 Gill Rider September 2012 2 2 Retired in August 2013.
68 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 The Remuneration Committee The Committees activities during the financial year During the year the Committee dealt with the following matters: annual review of the pay and benefits policies and practices for the staff below Board level in the Group: annual executive salary review: determining performance targets in respect of the annual incentive bonus plan for 2013 14: reviewing final drafts of the Directors remuneration report for 2012 13 and recommending it to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2013 Annual Report: reviewing early drafts of the Directors remuneration report for 2013 14: Directors remuneration report review and determination of the Group The Directors remuneration report for 2013 14 is set Chairmans fee: out separately on pages 70 to 96. determining bonuses and deferred bonus awards The Remuneration Committee meets in accordance pursuant to the Companys annual incentive bonus with an annual calendar to consider remuneration plan in respect of the year 2012 13: matters in respect of the Group and in particular is approving the terms of the appointment of the new responsible for: non-executive chairman of Viridor: advising the Board on the framework of executive approving the performance & co-investment plan remuneration for the Group: and awards for the year: determining the remuneration and terms of reviewing the annual performance evaluation results engagement of the Chairman, the Executive of the Committee: Directors and senior management of the Group.
approving the remuneration arrangements for the new chief executive, Viridor, and Executive Director of the Board: Members Appointment date Attendance approving the release of the 2010 deferred bonus share awards and the vesting of executive share Martin Angle December 2008 9 9 Committee options pursuant to the annual incentive bonus plan: chairman determining the outcome of the 2010 long-term incentive plan awards: Gerard Connell October 2003 9 9 reviewing the operation of the annual incentive Dinah Nichols June 2003 4 5 bonus plan and determining revised performance Gill Rider September 2012 9 9 targets and the inclusion of malus and clawback provisions in the plan rules: and Retired in August 2013. determining subsidiary board non-executive director fees.
The Board approved this governance report set out on pages 49 to 53 and 56 to 69 on 23 June 2014.
By Order of the Board Ken Woodier Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 23 June 2014 www.
co. uk 2014 69 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
