The Board and its Committees The Directors, their independence Operation of the Board in the year and and responsibilities its activities The Board of Directors at the end of the year The Directors on the Board and their attendance at comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors the 10 scheduled meetings of the Board during and three Non-executive Directors.
All of the Non- 2013 14 are shown below.
executive Directors were considered by the Board to be independent throughout the year.
None of the relationships or circumstances set out in provision Members Appointment date Attendance B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code latest 2012 edition the UK Code applied to them other Kenneth Harvey March 1997 10 10 Chairman than in respect of Gerard Connell who, following the Annual General Meeting last year, has served on the Non-executive Directors: Board for more than nine years since his first selection Martin Angle December 2008 10 10 and Dinah Nicholls who retired at last years AGM but at that time had served on the Board for 10 years.
Gerard Connell October 2003 10 10 Following this years Annual General Meeting and Dinah Nichols June 2003 4 4 subject to re-election, Gerard will continue on the Board for a further year for reasons explained by the Gill Rider September 2012 9 10 Chairman on page 7.
Gerard has been determined by Executive Directors: the Board to be independent as was Dinah up to the date of her retirement.
The Board is satisfied that Colin Drummond April 1992 5 5 Gerard does and will continue to demonstrate David Dupont March 2002 10 10 independence of character and judgement in the performance of his role on the Board.
Christopher August 2006 10 10 Loughlin All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to have the appropriate skills, experience in their Ian McAulay September 2013 6 6 respective disciplines and personality to bring independent and objective judgement to the Boards Dinah Nichols retired in August 2013 and Colin Drummond retired in deliberations.
Their biographies on pages 52 and 53 September 2013 from the Board.
demonstrate collectively a broad range of business, financial and other relevant experience.
Gerard Connell All Directors are equally accountable for the proper is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and stewardship of the Groups affairs with the Nonhis duties include leading the annual evaluation of the executive Directors having a particular responsibility for performance of the Chairman by the Non-executive ensuring that strategies proposed for the development Directors and being available as an additional point of of the business are critically reviewed.
The Noncontact on the Board for shareholders.
Gerard is also executive Directors also critically examine the chairman of the Audit Committee and in accordance operational and financial performance of the Group with the code of principles relating to Audit Committee and fulfil a key role in corporate accountability through membership he has recent and relevant financial their membership of the Committees of the Board.
In experience as set out in his biography on page 53. addition the Chairman holds meetings with the NonMartin Angle is also a member of the Audit Committee executive Directors, without the Executive Directors and he has relevant financial experience as set out in present, to discuss performance and strategic issues.
his biography, also on page 53.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and the Chief Executives of South West Water and Viridor as recorded in the descriptions of the roles approved by the Board.
All Directors are subject to re-election each year in accordance with provision B.
co. uk 2014 57 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Governance and remuneration The Board and its Committees Continued In accordance with the governance framework set out on page Performance evaluation 56 the Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision The Board continues to have well-developed internal and delegates more detailed consideration of certain matters to procedures to evaluate the performance of the whole Board, Board Committees: to the subsidiary boards of South West each Committee of the Board, the Chairman, each individual Water and Viridor: to the Executive Directors and the Group Director and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
General Counsel & Company Secretary, as appropriate.
The The evaluation procedure relating to the Board and its matters reserved for the Board include: Committees has previously been externally facilitated.
This year the Board decided it was appropriate to revert to an internally approval of the preliminary and half year results managed evaluation operated by the Group General Counsel & announcements: Company Secretary.
All participants views were sought via a approval of the Annual Report & Accounts including the questionnaire on a range of questions which were specifically financial statements : designed to ensure objective evaluation of performance and all acquisitions and disposals: based on key trends followed in previous years to enable the major items of capital expenditure: monitoring of performance.
Responses were then summarised and evaluated by the Group General Counsel & Company authority levels for other expenditure: Secretary for the Board to consider and determine whether any risk management process and monitoring of risks: changes should be made to be more effective or to improve approval of the strategic plan and annual operating budgets: governance.
Group policies, procedures and delegations: and The Board considered the finding of the evaluation and, while appointments to main and subsidiary boards.
performance was again considered to be satisfactory overall, a number of areas were identified where Board practice could be The Board operates by receiving written reports circulated enhanced or refocused in line with the future development of usually in advance of the meetings from the Executive Directors the Group.
These included: and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on matters within their respective business areas of the Group.
providing more time for consideration of strategic matters: When considered appropriate the Board also receives considering the appointment of an additional Non-executive presentations on key areas of the business and undertakes site Director: visits to gain a better understanding of the operation of the reviewing new Director induction arrangements: and business initiatives.
developing of closer links with subsidiary boards.
Under the guidance of the Chairman all matters before the The Board will be monitoring implementation of these action Board are discussed openly and presentations and advice are received frequently from other senior executives within the areas over the coming months to ensure that they are successfully implemented.
Group and from external advisers to facilitate the decision making of the Board.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated separately by the In addition to the governance framework, due to the Company Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director.
The Chairman no longer has any significant not having a Group Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman meets regularly with the Executive Directors and the Group General commitments outside the Group which could impact on his performance in relation to his Group role.
Counsel & Company Secretary to consider Group matters.
Dealing with Directors conflicts of interest Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has an In accordance with the directors interest provision of the established procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil their Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association duties, may seek independent professional advice at the the Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and Companys expense.
authorisation of Directors conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
The training needs of Directors are reviewed as part of the Boards performance evaluation process each year.
Training Board Committees and their terms of reference consists of attendance at external courses organised by In accordance with Group policies a range of key matters are professional advisers and also internal presentations from senior delegated to the Boards Committees as set out on pages 62 to management.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards Committees are set out on the Companys website, www.
co. uk or available upon request to the Group Company Secretary.
58 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014
