Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 40 Introduction to corporate governance High standards in corporate governance The composition of the Board remained The Board held its annual strategy The stewardship and unchanged during 2014, following meeting in October and undertook a full governance of our three changes in 2013.
The Nomination and detailed review of its current strategy Company continues to Committee has undertaken a further which is set out in the Strategic Report on review of succession planning for the pages 7, 17 and 18.
The strategy includes be a high priority for the Board and senior management.
It is the ensuring the Group maintains appropriate Board to ensure that the Committees intention to recommend the levels of resource to successfully execute Boards strategy and its appointment of further Non-Executive Group policies in all key areas of the requirements for excellence Directors during the course of 2015, in business, in particular with regard to the light of requirements to refresh Board strategic land, health and safety, customer and good governance are membership, specifically for diversity and care and sales and construction activities.
instilled into the culture to comply with the recommendations of As a result of our significant increase in of the business.
production over the last two years the Our Executive and Non-Executive It has been the Companys policy to Board has also committed resources to Directors regularly meet with management promote its Executive Directors from training and recruitment.
I am in particular teams and staff across our 24 operating senior management within the Group.
pleased that our Combat to Construction businesses.
The Groups excellent Senior management succession planning training initiative has received widespread performance during 2014 again provides within the Divisional Boards ensures future support and will provide a good career assurance to shareholders that the suitable executive candidates are identified path for ex-UK Armed Forces personnel Directors, management and staff are and have experience within the Group.
and address the widespread industry communicating well to ensure that the shortage of skilled tradesmen.
Overall we The Board has again undertaken an Groups strategy is implemented.
have 439 trainees and apprentices working internal evaluation of its performance.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees are working Finally, I am again pleased to report that effectively but there were further minor the Company has complied with the improvements that could be made, which UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 have been implemented.
The Board has reviewed course of 2015 the Board will conduct the new 2014 Code and will be making an externally assisted evaluation of itself a number of small changes to ensure and its Committees, with evaluation continued good governance and future criteria linked to the Companys strategy compliance with the new Code.
