Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 42 Board of Directors Nicholas Wrigley Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran ACA Chairman age 59 Group Chief Executive age 48 Group Finance Director age 53 Date of appointment Appointed to the Date of appointment 1 June 2009 Date of appointment 4 January 1999 Board on 1 February 2006 and as Chairman Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Member of the of the Board on21 April 2011 Risk Committee.
Committee membership Chairman of the Experience Jeff Fairburn has been Group Experience Mike Killoran joined the Nomination Committee and member of the Chief Executive since April 2013.
the Group in 1989 and became North by profession, Mike worked in manufacturing, Experience Nicholas Wrigley is an Executive East Managing Director in 2002.
He was distribution and retail sectors before joining Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
He has promoted to North Division Chief Executive in the Group.
He took over his present role in over 30 years mergers and acquisitions 2006 and subsequently to Group Managing April 1999. experience at Rothschild and is a qualified Director in 2012.
Skills Mike has extensive financial and accountant.
He was also Senior Steward of Skills Jeff has 31 years experience in the operational skills and over 18 years the Jockey Club from 2009 to 2014. construction industry, 27 of which have experience and knowledge of both the Skills Nicholas leadership style encourages been in the housebuilding sector.
He has industry and our business.
These skills open and honest debate in the spirit of an in depth knowledge of Persimmon enable Mike to make a strong contribution to constructive challenge, which enables having started as a quantity surveyor in strategy development.
effective decision making by the Board our Yorkshire business.
This, together with in all areas of strategy, responsibility his strong leadership skills, enables him to and governance.
effectively direct and manage the delivery ofour strategy.
Jonathan Davie Mark Preston Marion Sears Non-Executive Director age 68 Non-Executive Director age 47 Non-Executive Director age 52 Date of appointment 1 January 2010 Date of appointment 9 January 2012 Date of appointment 8 January 2013 Committee membership Chairman of the Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Corporate Responsibility Committee and a the Audit and Nomination Committees.
member of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience Mark Preston, a chartered Experience Jonathan Davie, a chartered surveyor, is the Group Chief Executive of Experience Marion Sears is a Nonaccountant, is Non-Executive Chairman Grosvenor Group Limited, an appointment Executive Director of Dunelm Group Plc of First Avenue LLP and a Non-Executive he took up in 2008.
He is a Non-Executive where she is the Nominations Committee Director of Hansa Trust Plc.
Jonathans Director of Sonae Sierra SGPS.
He is also a Chair and the Remuneration Committee previous roles include Non-Executive board member of The Association of Foreign Chair.
She was the Senior Independent Chairman of IG Group Holdings Plc, Vice Investors in Real Estate, a Member of the Director from 2006 to 2014.
She is also a Chairman of Credit Suisse, CEO of BZW University of Cambridge Land Economy Non-Executive Director of investment trusts Global Equities and Non-Executive Director Advisory Board, a Member of the Greenprint Octopus AIM VCT Plc and Fidelity European ofCredit Suisse UK Private Bank.
Advisory Board and a Trustee of the Values Plc.
Marion was previously Senior Westminster Foundation.
Independent Non-Executive Director of Zetar Skills Jonathans experience has given Plc and held executive positions at Glaxo, him sound judgement and the ability to Skills Marks experience as Chief Executive UBS, Baring Brothers and JP Morgan.
constructively challenge the Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited has given him Directors.
He has extensive experience extensive knowledge of the commercial Skills Marion has extensive retail industry ofthefinancial markets and capital raising.
and residential property market, which knowledge and customer understanding enables him to add a valuable contribution to together with an all-round view of the discussions regarding the Groups strategy.
Her banking skills, financial background and current involvement in the investment industry enable her to provide useful advice and judgement on the implementation of the Companys strategy.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 43 Nigel Greenaway David Jenkinson Richard Pennycook South Division Chief Executive age 54 North Division Chief Executive age 47 Senior Independent Director age 50 Date of appointment 8 January 2013 Date of appointment 13 December 2013 Date of appointment 14 March 2008 Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Chairman of Risk Committee.
the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Experience Nigel Greenaway joined the Experience Dave Jenkinson joined the Group in 1986.
He was appointed Managing Group in 1997.
He was appointed Managing Experience A chartered accountant and Director of the South Midlands operating Director of the North East operating graduate of Bristol University, Richard is business and was promoted through the business in 2005 and was promoted to Chief Executive Officer of The Co-Operative Group ultimately being appointed to his Regional Managing Director in 2007.
He was Group, Non-Executive Chairman of The current role of South Division Chief Executive appointed to his current role as North Division Hut Group and Chairman of the Audit in 2005.
Committee at Howden Joinery Group Plc.
Previous roles include Group Finance Skills Nigel has extensive experience of the Skills Dave has extensive experience of Director of WmMorrison Supermarkets business and the housebuilding industry, our business and of the housebuilding Plc and RAC Plc, Finance Director of having held various roles within the Group industry.
He has particular strengths in land JDWetherspoon Plc, CEO of Welcome before being promoted to his current role.
buying and development and is a qualified Break Holdings Plc and Non-Executive He is the Board Director responsible for town planner.
Skills Richard has extensive financial and retail skills, which enable him to inform the debate on strategy and particularly participate in evaluating the robustness of the Groups risk management.
Together the balance of skills, experience and personal characteristics of the Non-Executive Directors result in a diversity of views and opinions to support the Executive Directors.
