Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 44 Corporate Governance Statement and Directors Report Key actions of the Board The Board of Directors presents its Directors Report incorporating the The Board reviewed and approved the Companys current strategy and Capital Return Plan at its annual strategy meeting in October Corporate Governance Statement for 2014.
Full details of the current strategy are set out in the Strategic the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Board met on six occasions in 2014, including the annual strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its Leadership and effectiveness consideration and decision.
The schedule includes the approval of the Groups strategy, major investments, annual and half year Board composition results, interim management statements and trading updates, review of performance, dividend and cash return policy, monitoring The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive risk and ensuring adequate financial controls are available.
Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Nicholas Wrigley The schedule is reviewed annually.
became Chairman in April 2011 and he remains an Executive Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
The Executive Directors have The implementation of the Board strategy and policies are extensive experience in the housebuilding industry.
Jeff Fairburn delegated to Executive Directors and senior management within became Chief Executive in April 2013.
He joined the Group in the Group.
Particular focus during 2014 was placed on increasing 1989 and was appointed to the Board in June 2009, having held staff training to drive improvements in both health and safety and a number of positions within the business.
Mike Killoran joined customer care.
the Group in 1996 and has been Finance Director for the last 15 years.
Nigel Greenaway has been with the Group since 1986 and Board diversity and independence was appointed to the Board in January 2013: David Jenkinson The Board recognises that a diverse workforce can bring joined the Group in 1997 and was appointed to the Board on benefits to the Group and, by the same measure, the Directors 13 December 2013 and both held senior operational positions recognise the value diversity, including gender, can bring to the within the Group prior to their appointments.
When considering the nomination and appointment of The Senior Independent Director is Richard Pennycook, who has new Directors, the Nomination Committee evaluates candidates held the position since April 2012.
The Non-Executive Directors skills, knowledge and experience in order that they nominate have complementary skill sets bringing substantial and diverse new Directors on the basis of merit and overall suitability.
Nicholas Wrigley and Jonathan Davie When considering a new appointment the Board takes into both have considerable experience of financial markets and account the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity capital raising.
Richard Pennycook has extensive financial and of the Board.
Subject to the above principle, the Directors continue retail experience gained from his current role as Group Chief to work towards appointing a meaningful percentage of women to Executive of the Co-operative Group and formerly in his role as the Board in line with the recommendation of Lord Davies Report, Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc.
Mark Preston whilst taking into account the total size of the Board.
has wide ranging experience in retail, commercial and residential The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors Richard property as Chief Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited.
Pennycook, Jonathan Davie, Mark Preston and Marion Sears to Marion Sears has extensive experience in banking and retail.
The Company has procedures in place to ensure Together the balance of skills, experience and personal that Directors disclose any situation in which they may have an characteristics of the Non-Executive Directors result in a diversity interest, direct or indirect, which conflicts or may possibly conflict of views and opinions to support the Executive Directors and with the interests of the Company.
No authority to authorise a provide excellent advice and judgement on the formation and conflict of interest has been required during 2014. implementation of the Groups strategy.
The Chairman encourages open and honest debate in the spirit of constructive challenge, Re-election of Directors which results in high quality decision making in all areas of strategy, In accordance with the Code all Directors will stand for re-election performance, responsibility and accountability.
The Boards reasons for supporting the In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate re-election of the Chairman Nicholas Wrigley and Non-Executive GovernanceCode 2012 the Code there is a clear written division Directors Richard Pennycook, Jonathan Davie, Mark Preston and of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, Marion Sears are that they have individually produced excellent which is approved by the Board.
performance in their duties and have shown ahigh level of commitment to their roles.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 45 Performance evaluation and professional Terms of reference development Terms of reference for the Board Committees are available on During 2014 the Board undertook a self assessment evaluation theCompanys website www.
com based on the principles outlined in the Code.
The Directors or from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating registered office.
effectively in accordance with high corporate governance standards.
Further procedural improvements have been Shareholder relations implemented.
An externally assisted Board evaluation will be The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good undertaken during 2015. relations with the Companys shareholders as they provide useful In addition to the Board evaluation, the Chairman undertakes perspective on corporate governance matters and strategy.
an annual verbal evaluation of the Executive Directors Jeff Fairburn and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining performanceand an evaluation of the Non-Executive appropriate communications with institutional investors and Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors undertake a verbal analysts, advised by the Groups joint brokers Merrill Lynch and annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into Citigroup, together with the financial PR consultants, Citigate accounttheviews of the Executive Directors.
Jonathan Davie has responsibility for consulting The Chairman has discussed with all Directors their requirements with shareholders and institutions on matters relating to for professional development and training and where appropriate remuneration policy.
this has been provided to Directors.
All Directors have access to The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and consultation with major shareholders.
The Company monitors the may also seek independent professional advice and training at constituents of its share register to ensure that its investor relations theCompanys expense, if so required to carry out their duties.
communications are appropriately targeted at its shareholder base.
The Board is provided with reports and feedback from Nomination Committee major shareholders and following Directors presentations and The members of the Nomination Committee are Nicholas meetingswith both shareholders and analysts.
All Directors Wrigley Chairman, Richard Pennycook and Jonathan attendthe Companys Annual General Meeting and are available Davie.
The Committee met once during 2014 to review and toanswer questions at the meeting or privately.
consider the composition of the Board and to consider Board The Company issues regular trading statements to the London succession planning.
Stock Exchange, as well as the publication of annual and half year The Committee considered the criteria required for the financial results.
The Company provides shareholders with access appointment of further Non-Executive Director s to refresh Board to detailed presentations of results at its analyst presentations, a membership.
The criteria and requirements for an appointment recording of which can be viewed on the Companys website for have been agreed by the Committee and an executive search firm aperiod of one year.
appointed to assist the Committee in preparing a list of candidates for consideration.
The Committee hopes to announce further The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 appointment s during 2015.
This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Directors The Committee has also reviewed succession planning for internal Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 63, provides a description management promotions during the year.
of how the main principles of the Code have been applied within Persimmon Plc during 2014.
Remuneration Committee The Company complied with the Code throughout 2014 and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting continues to review its governance procedures to maintain the remuneration of the Chairman and Executive Directors.
The Code is available from the The members of the Remuneration Committee are Jonathan Davie Financial Reporting Council, telephone 0207 492 2300 or online Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, Mark Preston and Marion Sears.
The Committee met four times during 2014 to discuss, consider and approve the policy and remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committees key actions during the course of the year were the review and implementation of the Executive Directors remuneration during 2014 and the annual bonus plan for 2015, both in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in April 2014.
Further details of the remuneration policy and package for each Director serving during 2014 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 63.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 46 Corporate Governance Statement and Directors Report continued Carrying value of shared equity receivables The Committee reviews reports of the performance of the loan monies remaining due to the Group under the shared equity Audit Committee contracts.
These are held as receivables and reported as Availablefor sale financial assets on the Groups balance sheet.
Composition At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of these receivables The Audit Committee members are Richard Pennycook was 201.3m.
The Committee has reviewed the assumptions Chairman, Jonathan Davie and Mark Preston.
Richard Pennycook, adopted by management in support of the carrying value of these as Chairman of the Committee, has recent relevant financial receivables and concluded they are appropriate.
The Committee experience as Chief Executive of the Co-operative Group and monitors the ongoing performance of these receivables with formerly as Group Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets respect to redemptions and delinquency and are satisfied that Plc.
Mark Preston has recent relevant financial experience in management have adopted appropriate assumptions in this regard his current role as Chief Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited.
in support of the carrying value of these assets.
The Committee met on four occasions during 2014 and all members were in attendance at each meeting.
The Committee The Committee considers that the Group managements regularly meets the auditor without the presence of the Companys application of its accounting policies has resulted in an management.
The Committees Chairman also meets the Group appropriate position being taken which reflects the inherent risks Risk Manager without the Companys management being present of recoverability of the Groups inventory balances and shared at least twice each year.
The other key actions of the Committee during the year were: Role full review of liquidity risk and whether the Group can continue The Committees key priorities are the effective governance to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts: over the Groups financial reporting, the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of the Group risk management review of half year and annual results: function and the management of the Groups systems of review of the Groups current tax status: internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
The Committee also reviews and monitors the performance and oversight of the Groups health and safety strategy, policies and independence of the Groups external auditor, the provision of performance reporting: additional services to the Group by the auditor and oversees the review of the Group risk register: Groups relationship with them.
review of the Groups IT systems upgrade policy Committee meetings generally take place prior to but on the same and implementation: and day as Board meetings and the Committee Chairman provides the Board with a report on the activity of the Committee and the oversight of the Groups customer care policies, procedures matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of and performance reporting.
Carrying value of land and work in progress 2014 priorities The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal controls The significant financial issues considered by the Committee exercised over the key processes employed by the Group in the during 2014 have been assessed by determining the key risks acquisition of new land and the investment in site development ofmisstatement of the Groups financial statements relating to: activities.
The Committee receives regular reporting on managements adherence to the Groups policies and procedures the carrying value of the Groups available for sale financial in both of these critically important areas of the business.
assets comprising shared equity receivables: and The carrying value of the Groups land totalled 1,842.4m at the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress 31 December 2014, and the carrying value of work in progress including the accuracy of cost recoveries.
The Committee also regularly reviewed and addressed the Groups Similarly, the Committee ensures the approach adopted by risk register and in particular: management in recovering the cost of both land and work in progress remains in line with established Group policies the monitoring of the Groups health and safety performance and procedures through regular risk monitoring reports.
and the additional staffing to increase inspection and advisory The Committee has again reviewed managements assessment roles to minimise risks associated with the Groups increase ofthe net realisable value of the Groups land and work in progress in production: held at 31 December 2014.
The Committee concluded that the continued implementation of new information technology the approach adopted by management supported the asset systems across the Group: and carrying values.
human resources recruitment and training given the Groups increase in staffing to meet its significant increase in production.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 47 The Committee has noted the changes to the Code introduced by External audit the FRC in September 2012 and in particular, the new requirement KPMG LLP is the Groups external auditor and they produce a contained in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external detailed audit plan identifying their assessment of key risks each audit contract out to tender in the future at least every 10 years.
For the 2014 financial year the significant risks identified The FRC has suggested possible transitional arrangements, under were in relation to the carrying value of the Groups land and which an external audit tender process would fit the cycle of audit work in progress and the carrying value of the Groups shared partner rotation.
The audit was last tendered in 1994 and since then lead audit Other areas of audit focus included testing of key controls, an partners have been appointed in accordance with KPMG LLPs assessment of the adequacy of closed site provisions held, own guidance on independence, most recently for the year ended accuracy of revenue recognition, valuation of the Groups defined 31 December 2012.
During 2015 the Committee will conduct a benefit pension scheme obligations, valuation of goodwill and full audit tender process in respect of the financial year ending intangible assets, accuracy of current tax accrual and deferred tax 31 December 2016. balances, and a review to confirm that the Group should properly At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered be considered as a going concern.
whether the 2014 Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, The Audit Quality Review team of the Financial Reporting Council balanced and understandable and whether it provided the undertook a routine review of the 2013 external audit files following necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys which the Audit Committee Chairman met the FRC to review its performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that these were adequately is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, reflected in the 2014 audit approach adopted.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external Internal control and risk management audit process annually with the auditor and the Companys management.
The Committee holds private meetings with the Effective risk management is critical to the achievement of our auditor following each Committee meeting.
Matters discussed objectives and the long term sustainable growth of our business.
include the auditors assessment of business risks and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of management activity thereon, the transparency and openness internal control and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role of interactions with management and confirmation that there has of management to implement the Boards policies on risk control been no restriction in scope placed on them by management.
through the design and operation of appropriate internal control The Committee ensures that the auditor has exercised its systems.
All employees have some responsibility for internal control professional scepticism.
The Committee has reviewed and is as part of their responsibility for achieving objectives.
Please also satisfied with the performance of KPMG LLP.
see sections on How we manage risk and What could affect our business on pages 24 and 25.
The Committee formulates and oversees the Companys policy on monitoring external auditor objectivity and independence in relation The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing the to non-audit services.
The auditor is excluded from undertaking a Boards responsibilities with regard to risk and internal control.
range of work on behalf of the Group to ensure that the nature of Specifically, this includes determining appropriate control non-audit services performed or fee income earned relative to the procedures and the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
audit fees does not compromise and is not seen to compromise The members of the Risk Committee are Jeff Fairburn Chairman, the auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditor is Mike Killoran, Nigel Greenaway and Dave Jenkinson.
The Risk therefore not allowed to carry out appraisal or valuation services, Committee is supported by the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk management functions and litigation support, actuarial services, Committee reports to the Audit Committee, which oversees the legal, accounting or remuneration services on behalf of the Group.
From time to time non-audit services are put out to tender to a number of suitable firms.
The ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and risk paid to the auditor in 2014 was 8 to 1. management systems in relation to the financial reporting process and in relation to the process of preparing consolidated accounts.
Details of the audit fee and fees paid to KPMG LLP for non-audit The Company has complied with the Code provisions on internal services are on page 80.
Non-audit fees principally related to control, having continued to operate procedures necessary to pension advice on an abortive acquisition of a small housebuilding implement the guidance issued by The Turnbull Committee Report company relating to its defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
revised October 2005 throughout the year.
The auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner has now been in place for three years.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 48 Corporate Governance Statement and Directors Report continued Senior management from the Finance Department monitor Following review by the Risk Committee where minor weaknesses the Groups financial management and reporting systems and in internal controls were identified action has been taken to improve continually assess the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups and strengthen procedures as part of the regular fide-briefing of accounting procedures.
Senior management from the Finance and senior management by the Group Risk Department on conclusion Company Secretarial Departments review financial reports, interim of their work.
management statements and trading updates with appropriate Members of the Risk Committee completed the following tasks, consultation with the Groups external advisors, ensuring that such which are essential parts of the Groups risk control framework: reports and statements are accurate, complete and comply with all relevant legislation and regulations.
Each operating business and maintaining continuous detailed involvement in monitoring Group function is required to report to the Group to ensure that all and controlling work in progress and controls over land financial reporting is accurate and that all matters which may be acquisition assessment: material to the Group as a whole have been reported to the Board.
regular site visits and discussions with site based personnel: Senior management reports its findings to the Audit Committee and through that Committee to the Board.
ongoing review of Group performance in comparison to operational forecasts and financial budgets: and The Group Risk Department has facilitated an update to the Group risk register during the year to reflect the changing risk involvement in each operating business Board discussions, profile facing the Group.
The results of this process have been particularly operational Board meetings where all aspects of reported to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a operation and performance were analysed.
risk focused programme of work designed to improve business On completion of these processes the Risk Committee formally processes and increase internal control effectiveness.
The updated considers the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups Group risk register has been approved by both Risk and Audit system of internal control.
This review covers all material controls Committees.
The principal risks faced by the Group set out on including financial, operational and compliance controls, as well page 25 have been reviewed and amended with the changes in as the Groups risk management system.
There were no material risk to the Group.
matters identified from the review.
The review for 2014 has been In particular the risks associated with the Companys strategy have completed and approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
declined as economic conditions have improved.
We have also A detailed Group Risk Department programme of work for 2015 prioritised risks associated with health and safety by specifying this has also been approved by the Risk and Audit Committees.
as a discrete risk aside from other regulatory compliance.
Overall, The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage the risks faced by the Group have not reduced but their relevant rather than eliminate risk, in order to achieve business objectives.
scale of importance has changed during 2014.
However, the system can only provide reasonable assurances The Risk Committee met six times during 2014, ensuring there and does not provide absolute assurance against material has been an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and misstatement or loss.
management of the significant risks that are faced by the Group.
The key features of reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following: review of reports produced by the Group Risk Department on internal control and management of risk: reviewing the reports from the Corporate Responsibility Committee a sub-committee of the Risk Committee with particular reference to reputational, environmental, sustainability and social risks facing the Group: review of representations on risk and control from all Managing Directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control within their operating businesses: review of representations on risk and control from both Group and divisional management: assessment of the security around IT infrastructure and customer information: and monitoring of whistleblowing reports or other significant control issues or incidents.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 49 Significant shareholdings As at 31 December 2014 and as at the date of this report, the Company had been notified under the Financial Conduct Directors Report other disclosures Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 of the following Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company of interests in the voting rights of the Company.
the Persimmon Group of companies the Group and is a As at 31 December 2014 and 23 February 2015 public company listed in the UK and traded on the London Name No.
of voting rights % of total voting rights Nature of holding Stock Exchange.
14,923,488 4.97 Direct and indirect The Groups main trading companies are Persimmon Homes Limited and Charles Church Developments Limited.
The Group Directors and Directors interests trades under the brand names of Persimmon Homes, Charles Church, Westbury Partnerships and Space4.
The current Directors of the Company and their biographical details are shown on pages 42 and 43.
Details of the Executive The subsidiary undertakings which principally affect the Directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration Report profits and assets of the Group are listed in note 32 to the on page 61.
All of the Directors served for the whole of the year.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors Strategic Report and their connected persons in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2014 and as at the date of this report are disclosed The management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
R is in the Remuneration Report on page 60.
Details of the interests of included in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33.
A description the Executive Directors in share options and awards of shares can of the Groups future prospects, research and development, the be found on page 59 within the same report.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and details of the Groups use of financial instruments are contained within Appointment and replacement of Directors the Strategic Report.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and associated risk exposure The Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in are given in note 22 of the Financial Statements.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the Results and return of cash Board of Directors holds office until the next following AGM and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Company may The Groups revenue for 2014 was 2,573.9m and its consolidated by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of profit before taxation was 467m.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not In accordance with the Code the Board has determined that all exceeding the amount recommended by Directors subject to Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Directors may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate The Companys Articles of Association Articles in any event dividend whenever the financial position of the Company, in the provide that at each AGM at least one third of the Directors shall opinion of the Directors, justifies its payment.
retire from office and shall be eligible for re-appointment and All dividend and interest shall be paid subject to any lien of the therefore each Director shall retire from office and shall be eligible Company to those members whose names are on the register for re-appointment at the AGM held in the third year following their of members on the record date, notwithstanding any subsequent last re-appointment.
In accordance with the Articles and the Code, transfer or transmission of shares.
a Non-Executive Director who has been in office for more than nine years consecutively shall retire at each AGM and shall be As set out in the Chairmans Statement it is proposed to pay eligible for re-appointment.
a cash return of 95p per ordinary share on 2 April 2015 to shareholders on the register at 6pm on 19 March 2015 under the Powers of the Directors Companys Capital Return Plan.
The total return for the year will be 95p per share 2014: return of cash of 70p per share.
The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the Going concern Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given in general meetings.
In particular, the Directors may exercise all the After completing a full review, the Directors have a reasonable powers of the Company to borrow money, issue and buy back expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its shares with the authority of shareholders, appoint and remove operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue Directors and recommend and declare dividends.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details are provided in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 50 Corporate Governance Statement and Directors Report continued Capital structure Votes of members The following description summarises certain provisions of the All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and there are Articles adopted by special resolution passed on 16 April 2014 currently no restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may be exercised and the Companies Act 2006.
This is only a summary and the in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members by a relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Articles should corporate representative.
The deadline for delivering either written be consulted if further information is required.
A copy of the Articles or electronic proxy forms is not less than 48 hours before the may be obtained by writing to the Group Company Secretary at time for holding the meeting.
To attend and vote at a meeting a the registered office.
shareholder must be entered on the register of members at a time that is not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting Amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made by calculated using business days only.
way of special resolution in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
On a vote on a show of hands, each member being an individual present in person or a duly authorised representative of a Share capital corporation has one vote.
Each proxy present in person who has been appointed by one member entitled to vote on a resolution The Company has one class of share in issue, being ordinary has one vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by more than one shares with a nominal value of 10p each, which carry no right to member and has been given the same voting instructions by those fixed income.
During 2014 1,802,151 ordinary shares were issued members, the proxy has one vote.
If the proxy has been appointed with a nominal value of 180,215.10 to employees exercising share by more than one member and has been given conflicting options for cash consideration of 3,470,218.06.
At 23 February instructions, or instructions to vote for or against one member and 2015 the issued share capital of the Company was 306,506,445 discretion by another, the proxy has one vote for and one vote ordinary shares with a nominal value of 30,650,644.50. against a resolution.
On a vote on a poll, each member present in Further details are provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
person or by proxy or by duly authorised representative has one In accordance with the resolution to return 70p of cash to vote for each share held by the member.
shareholders passed at the AGM on 16 April 2014, the Company Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 31 of the issued 85,725,061 B shares and 220,072,490 C shares on 23 June Financial Statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon Employment 2014.
The B shares were redeemed in their entirety for 70p each Benefit Trust may vote or abstain on shareholder resolutions as it on 4 July 2014 and immediately cancelled.
The C share dividend sees fit.
of 70p per share was paid on 4 July 2014 and the C shares reclassified as deferred shares and subsequently purchased Transfer of shares by the Company for a nominal sum of one penny.
The deferred shares were subsequently cancelled on 7 July 2014.
As a result, There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the the Company no longer has any B C shares in issue.
Any member may transfer their shares in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other rights Directors and permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the UK or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, or Listing Authority.
The Company is not aware of any agreements voting or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer ordinary resolution determine or failing such determination as the of shares or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Directors may decide, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights.
There are no securities Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions and carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions The Directors may allot, grant options over, or otherwise dispose The Company has not issued any qualifying third party indemnity of shares in the Company to such persons including the Directors provision or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision.
themselves at such times and on such terms as the Directors may think proper, subject to the Articles, the Companies Act Change of control provisions 2006 and shareholders rights.
At the AGM on 16 April 2014 One significant agreement contains provisions entitling shareholders gave Directors authority to issue up to one-third counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of the issued share capital of the Company being an aggregate of a change of control of the Company.
Under the 300m credit nominal amount of 10,157,703 and to disapply pre-emption rights facility dated 1 April 2011 as amended and re-stated on 31 March on the issues of shares up to 5% of the issued share capital, being 2014 disclosed in Note 22 of the Financial Statements, all amounts an aggregate nominal amount of 1,523,655.
These authorities become due and payable under the terms of the facility if any will expire at the conclusion of the AGM on 16 April 2015. person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Resolutions to renew these authorities will be put to shareholders the Company.
Control has the same meaning as section 450 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Change of control is deemed to occur if at any time any person, or group of persons acting in concert, acquires control of the Company.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 51 The Company does not have agreements with any employee, Acquisition of own shares including Directors, that would provide compensation for loss At the AGM held on 16 April 2014 shareholders granted the of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of 30,473,110 provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased to date under and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on this authority and therefore at 31 December 2014 the authority a takeover.
This authority expires on 16 April 2015 and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the Emissions forthcoming AGM.
The Companys greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the At 31 December 2014 the Company held no shares in treasury.
General Meeting Employee involvement A General Meeting to approve the return of 95p per share under The Group places considerable value on the involvement of the Capital Return Plan and the associated B C share scheme will its employees and has continued to keep them informed on be held at Persimmon House, Fulford, York YO19 4FE at 3pm on matters affecting them as employees and on various financial 19 March 2015. and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group regularly updates its employment policies and all Annual General Meeting employees have been issued with a staff handbook to keep them up to date with information relating to their employment.
The AGM will commence at 12 noon on Thursday 16 April 2015 at Each of the Groups operating businesses maintains employee York Racecourse, Knavesmire Road, York YO23 1EX.
The Notice relations and consults employees as appropriate.
Internal Group of Meeting and an explanation of the ordinary and special business magazinesare published quarterly and distributed to all employees are given in the AGM circular.
to ensure they are kept well informed of the Groups operations.
In addition, information concerning the financial performance of the Auditor Group is sent to each operating business for circulation.
As recommended by the Audit Committee, the Board has decided The Company makes various benefit schemes available to to put KPMG LLP forward to be re-appointed as auditor and a employees, including a savings-related share option scheme which resolution concerning their re-appointment will be made at the encourages the awareness and involvement of employees in the Companys AGM on 16 April 2015.
All permanent employees are encouraged Disclosure of information to auditors to participate, subject to having six months service at the date of grant of option.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant Equal opportunities audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and The Group policy is to have equal opportunities for training, that each Director has taken all steps he ought to have taken as career development and promotion for all employees without a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit discrimination and apply fair and equitable policies which information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware seek to promote entry into and progression within the Group.
This confirmation is given and should be Appointments are determined solely by application of job interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the criteria, personal ability and competency regardless of race, Companies Act 2006. colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, gender, sexual orientation, political beliefs, marital or civil partnership status, age, Directors responsibility pregnancy or maternity or disability.
Applications for employment The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report by disabled persons are always fully considered, with appropriate and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person concerned.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, that and provides the information necessary for shareholders to appropriate training is arranged and any reasonable adjustments assess the Companys performance position, business model and are made to their working environment.
It is the Groups policy strategy.
The Board reached this conclusion after receiving advice that the training, career development and promotion of disabled from the Audit Committee.
Further details are provided on pages persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other 47 and 64. employees.
The Group has achieved accreditation for its approach to equality and diversity.
By order of the Board Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 23 February 2015 Persimmon Plc Company registration number 1818486
