Petrofac 72 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued Who is on our Board?
Leadership At the date of this report, following the departure of Andy Inglis on 28 February 2014 and Norman Murray on 22 August 2014, we What is our approach to governance?
have nine Directors on the Board comprising five Non-executive With a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Petrofac is Directors, three Executive Directors and me as Chairman, as set required under the UK Listing Rules to comply with the provisions out inthe table below: of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, copies Name Position Nationality of which are publicly available at www.
The UK Code sets out 18 main principles of good governance in relation to Rijnhard van Tets Chairman leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The UK Code also requires the Board Thomas Thune Andersen Senior Independent Director to acknowledge its responsibility for ensuring the annual report, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, Stefano Cao Non-executive Director so that shareholders are provided with the necessary information to assess Company performance and strategy.
This report, including the reports from the Nominations, Audit, Board Risk Roxanne Decyk Non-executive Director and Remuneration Committees, describes how the Company has applied each of these principles, as set out in sections Kathleen Hogenson Non-executive Director A to E of the UK Code during the period under review.
Ren Mdori Non-executive Director The Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, are required to review whether or not the corporate governance report reects 1 the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Code Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive specified for their review by the UKLA Listing Rules and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such report has Marwan Chedid Chief Executive, ECOM been made.
Tim Weller Chief Financial officer During the year, the FRC issued an updated UK Governance Code which will apply to accounting periods commencing on or after 1 October 2014.
The Company will report formally on the 1 Mr Asfari is a British citizen: however he is Syrian born and has dual nationality.
adoption of the updated principles in next years report.
Our Directors are drawn from across the world and have varied What is the Role of the Board?
career histories, with no single type of person dominating the The UK Companies Act 2006 sets out a number of general Board which we believe is essential to safeguard the long-term duties by which all directors should comply and, although as a interests of our shareholders.
Considerable effort has been taken Jersey incorporated company, we do not have to comply with to ensure our Board has the right balance of skills, diversity this legislation, we believe each of our Directors must act in and industry expertise and we are fortunate in that many of good faith to promote the long-term success of the Company our Directors bring a great deal of experience in the oil and gas for the benefit of our stakeholders.
As a unitary Board, each industry.
Our Non-executive Directors are encouraged to share ofour Directors shares equal responsibility for decisions taken, their skills and experience and each is well-positioned to support with Directors being collectively responsible for the strategic management, while providing constructive challenge.
The Board direction of the Company and we believe they are able to work considers all Non-executive Directors to be independent in together in an atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual judgement and character and free from any relationship or respect.
Our Board has been structured to ensure that no single circumstance which is likely to prejudice, or could appear to individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the prejudice, their judgement.
Each was appointed through an Board and we feel that having an effective working relationship impartial recruitment process and none has any other connection between our Executive and Non-executive Directors provides a with the Company.
Full biographies of each of our Directors in robust framework, which is essential for the progression of the ofce at year end are shown on pages 68 and 69 and arealso Companys strategic aims.
included in the 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
c o Q s l t u a a c c l o i i t h n y t s E a c n i o d u s R e s e p f o Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 73 Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk management increased monitoring of key risks across What should our Board be doing?
Maintenance and development of the Board risk The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for assurance oversight.
formaldecision, a copy of which is available on our website www.
While we recognise that there are a number Health, safety and security matters annual review of the of topics for which all boards should take responsibility, in support Groups HSSEIA policies and approval of the HSSEIA plan for of strategic priorities, the Board concentrated on a number ofkey 2014.
Particular focus was given to security arrangements in the areas during the year.
We set out below how we believe, either MENA region.
directly or through our Committees, we have concentrated on IT oversight discussed cyber security matters to understand these areas with due regard to our key values.
the key risks and threats to the business.
Reviewed the This year the agenda focused on a number of key areas in standardisation of IT infrastructure and the removal of legacy support of the Companys strategic objectives, which were systems across the Group, which will ultimately enable greater underpinned by our core values: streamlining of processes, better data integrity between functions and business units, thereby increasing our ability to report against Strategy discussions on the Companys strategic direction, groupwide KPIs.
including resource planning across the Group and the ongoing monitoring of Company strategy.
The risks and opportunities Shareholder engagement details of our shareholder associated with our OCP business and delivery of the Petrofac engagement during the year are set out on page 81.
JSD6000 vessel were reviewed and we also gaveconsiderable Crisis management planning focus was given to crisis consideration to the refocusing of the IES division and its management planning, testing the Groups preparedness for alignment with the ECOM business.
responding to multiple emergencies crises and understanding Financial reporting and nancing arrangements focus given to therole of the Board inthe event of an emergency crisis.
Consideration was given to New project approvals transactions previously approved by funding arrangements, including ECA nancing, a two-year term the Board and announced during the year included: KNPC loan and the creation of the PetroFirst vehicle to respond to the Clean Fuels Project, Mina Abdulla MABI renery in Kuwait changing needs and requirements of the business.
contract value US$3.7 billion : KOC gathering centre in Kuwait Succession planning following the departure of two Directors US$700 million : Khazzan central processing facility in Oman during the year, consideration was given to Board composition US$1.2 billion : Reggane North Development project in Algeria and succession planning arrangements.
Time was spent on contract value US$970 million : an EPCC contract on a renery talent and succession review of all senior roles throughout the project in Malaysia contract value US$500 million.
organisation, focusing on key leadership positions.
Further details relating to our projects can be found on pages 33 to 43.
Strategy F inancial reporting and Succession nancing planning arrangements Risk Shareholder assurance sentiment Board oversight engagement focus IT oversight, Health and including Safety cyber security matters Crisis New project management approvals a n S s i v e I n o r n t e o n v i v e l v e a i t D r i D v e Petrofac 74 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued I hold regular private meetings with Ayman and we will often How is the Board organised?
discuss matters before and after they are considered at Board As recommended by the UK Code, the Company has clearly meetings in order that we can reach a mutual understanding dened areas of responsibility.
As Chairman, I am responsible of each others views, especially in matters where we may not for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, whilst initially be in agreement.
I also maintain regular contact with maintaining a clear structure that permits the Board to Thomas between our scheduled Board meetings and believe that challenge and support management.
It is very important that I am equally informed about the views of both management and all Directors see the Chairman as a fair and impartial individual.
Time is also set aside at each meeting My relationships with the Group Chief Executive and the Senior for me to meet with the Non-executive Directors without the Independent Director SID are of particular importance, as presence of management.
All of these meetings provide insight these two individuals represent the views of management and which assists me in two ways: I am better able to set the agenda Non-executive Directors, respectively.
Ayman Asfari, as Group for Board meetings and I can ensure that all Directors contribute Chief Executive, is responsible for the day-to-day management at our meetings through their individual and collective experience, of the Group and for the design and execution of our strategy.
Ayman is supported by his senior management team whose details are outlined on pages 70 and 71.
Thomas Thune Andersen Mary Hitchon continues to act as Secretary to the Board, succeeded me as Senior Independent Director in August 2014. notwithstanding that her role and job title have changed during the He is available to shareholders to answer any questions or year.
One of her key roles is to advise on governance matters so that concerns which cannot be addressed by me or Ayman and, the governance and effectiveness of the Board, the Committees and is also available to marshal the opinions and views of the Nonour individual Directors can be enhanced.
The responsibilities for the executive Directors, aswas seen during the Chairmanship roles of the Group Chief Executive, Chairman, and that of the Senior changes in 2014.
Independent Director and Group Director of Legal, Secretarial and Compliance Services are shown in the table below: Chairman Group Chief Executive Lead the Board.
Facilitate the effective contribution of all Directors.
Develop manageable goals and priorities.
Ensure effective communication with shareholders.
Lead and motivate the management teams.
Ensure effective communication ows between Directors.
Develop proposals to present to the Board on all areas reserved for its judgement.
Develop Group policies for approval by the Board and ensure implementation.
Effective division of responsibilities Senior Independent Director Group Director of Legal, Secretarial and Compliance Services Acts as a sounding board and condante to the Chairman.
Acts as Secretary to the Board and its committees.
Available to shareholders to answer questions which cannot be addressed by Chairman or Group Chief Executive.
Assists in and co-ordinates the Board evaluation process.
Will chair the Board if Chairman is unavailable and will chair Ensures the Board is kept informed and is consulted on all the Nominations Committee when considering succession matters reserved to it and that papers and other information to the role of Chairman of the Board.
are delivered in a timely fashion.
Will meet with other Directors to appraise the Chairmans Ensures the Board is kept informed on governance matters, performance, and on such other occasions as providing advice through the Chairman.
Available to individual Directors in respect of Board Acts as intermediary for other independent Directors.
procedures and provides general support and advice.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 75 Annual report and accounts 2014 The Board is assisted by four committees.
Each committee Who attends Board meetings?
is responsible for reviewing and overseeing activities within its To enhance their understanding of the business and to see the particular terms of reference, copies of which are available on implementation of agreed strategy in action, the Board invite the Companys website www.
At each scheduled operational and functional management to attend meetings Board meeting, the chairman of each committee provides a throughout the year.
During 2014, updates were received summary of any committee meeting held since the previous from the functional heads of HSSEIA, HR, IT, Group Risk, Board meeting, with the minutes of all committee meetings Security, Compliance, Group Tax, Treasury, External Affairs and circulated to the Board, when appropriate.
In addition, updates were provided from operational each committee chairman for 2014 are provided on pages 82 management, one and two tiers below director level, in each of to 112.
In addition to the four Board committees, the Company the business locations visited by the Board.
We believe giving has a number of executive management committees which are senior management the opportunity to present to the Board, as involved in the day-to-day operational management of Petrofac.
well as meet the Directors informally, is valuable for their personal These have been established to consider various issues and development and moreover this interaction helps Directors gain matters for recommendation to the Board and its committees a deeper understanding of the Company at both a corporate asset out in the diagram below : and local level.
How often does our Board meet?
The Board meets face-to-face at least six times a year at scheduled meetings, held over a two-day period.
The Board also meets on an ad hoc telephonic basis, when items of business arise which cannot be held over until the next planned meeting.
Corporate structure framework Shareholders Elect the Elect the Ongoing external auditors Directors dialogue Take decisions of a strategic nature Day-to-day operational management: implement strategic decisions Audit Committee Executive Monitors the integrity of the Companys Committee financial statements and reviews financial and regulatory compliance and controls Committee report on pages 84 to 89 Chief Executive Committee Board Risk Committee Oversees the Groups risk management Disclosure and internal control processes for Committee non-financial matters Committee report on pages 90 to 95 Board Group Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Agrees Remuneration Policy and sets individual compensation levels for Treasury members of senior management Committee Committee report on pages 96 to 112 Guarantee Nominations Committee Committee Takes primary responsibility for succession planning, Director selection and Responsible for the communication Board composition and implementation of decisions, administrative matters and matters Committee report on pages 82 and 83 forrecommendation to the Board and its Committees Non-executive Executive and Non-executive Executive Petrofac 76 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued Dedicated strategy days, as well as a site visit, also form part As at the date of this report: of our annual programme of events.
Board tenure Where does our Board meet?
1-2 years Petrofac Limited was incorporated in Jersey under the Companies 1 Jersey Law 1991 and although Board meetings are held at a variety of locations, at least half are held in Jersey.
We believe that 2-3 years 2 meetings held outside of Jersey allow the Board to gain a wider 4-5 years 4 understanding of Petrofac, its people, its customers, its suppliers and its partners.
The Board therefore visits our largest ofce, and Five years or more the centre of our Onshore Engineering & Construction business, 2 in Sharjah each year and 2014 was no exception.
During this visit, Directors met with around 50 members of our local management team from OEC, OCP and ECS as well as having lunch with Executive and Non-executive Director balance a group of graduates from the Petrofac Academy.
In October, a site visit was held in Abu Dhabi further details are set out on Non-executive Chairman page 77 and in November, the Board meeting coincided with 1 the Companys leadership conference, giving the Directors the Executive Directors 3 opportunity to meet with nominees for our Eve Awards.
Non-executive Directors Details of Director attendance during the year and eligibility 5 Ad-hoc telephonic Board meetings usually held at short notice Physical Board and attendance Nationality of Board members meetings must take place Strategy 5 Name attended outside of UK days Middle East 1 1 Rijnhard van Tets 6 6 22 2 2 UK Thomas Thune Andersen 6 6 12 2 US 2 Stefano Cao 6 6 32 2 Roxanne Decyk 6 6 32 2 Continental Europe 4 2 Kathleen Hogenson 5 6 32 2 Ren Mdori 6 6 02 2 Ayman Asfari 6 6 02 2 Cultural diversity of the Group Marwan Chedid 6 6 32 2 North & Central 14% America Middle East and Tim Weller 6 6 22 2 North Africa 2% Former directors 42% Asia 3 Norman Murray 4 4 11 1 Europe 42% 4 Andy Inglis 1 2 00 0 1 Mr van Tets became Chairman on 22 August 2014.
2 Ms Hogenson was unable to attend one meeting during the year due toan unforeseen family emergency.
Board skill set 3 Mr Murray stepped down from the Board on 22 August 2014.
2014 4 Mr Inglis stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2014.
Oil and Gas experience 78% 5 Directors may join meetings in an advisory capacity and, on such Engineering 56% occasions, are not included in the quorum of the meeting.
Figures in brackets are meetings eligible to attend: those not in brackets Finance 33% are meetings attended.
International experience 100% Regulatory and governance 56% HSE 67% Operational strategic management 100% Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 77 Annual report and accounts 2014 Board visit to AbuDhabi We believe holding at Each year the Board will hold at least one meeting in a location where Petrofac has significant operations.
We believe this gives least one Board meeting the Board an invaluable insight into the business, the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of our operations, and to recognise some of the challenges being where Petrofac has faced by our employees, in what can sometimes be difficult and remote locations.
In October, a visit, fully supported by our significant operations client, ADCO, was arranged to our Bab Habshan and Bab Compression sites in Abu Dhabi, UAE.
As well as viewing the progress of the construction, the Board gives the Board an received updates and presentations from local management on all significant live projects in Abu Dhabi, including Upper invaluable insight into Zakum and Sarb 3, as well as the wider Middle Eastern landscape and future growth opportunities.
Over the course of the two-day visit, the Board also had the opportunity to meet with Petrofac Emirates employees, as well as a number of key stakeholders from the Abu Dhabi business community, at a Petrofac hosted dinner, which included His Highness Sheikh Nahyan Bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Culture, Youth, and Social Development for the United Arab Emirates.
Petrofac 78 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued Information provided Effectiveness Whilst some agenda items are brought to the Board on the basis of a 6 or 12-month rolling programme, such as strategy, How do we get the best out of our Board?
the forthcoming years budget or HSSEIA plan, other reports, Time and effort is invested when appointing new Board members such as the operational and financial reports from the Group to ensure the right balance and mix of directors can be obtained.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer are standing items Directors are encouraged to be open and forthright in their which arereviewed and discussed at each meeting.
approach, with active debate encouraged during meetings before any Board decisions are taken.
We believe this boardroom Generally however, a tailored approach to developing Board culture helps to forge strong and open working relationships while agendas is adopted, with the majority of each agenda comprising enabling our Directors to engage fully with the Company and non-recurring items, such as strategic matters or project specic allowing them to make their best possible contribution.
We believe this allows Directors to engage more effectively and encourages scrutiny Set out below are some of the practical measures we take and constructive debate during each meeting.
to support our Directors: As part of our commitment to best practice, and as recommended Our selection process by the UK Code, we endeavour to dispatch papers in a timely The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent manner, usually one week prior to each meeting.
Papers are selection procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
provided electronically through a dedicated secure application, Board composition is considered very carefully by the giving Directors instant access to papers.
Nominations Committee to ensure the right balance of individuals taking into account experience, skills and diversity is achieved.
Director development and training Care is taken to establish the existing commitments of all We maintain training records for all Directors and these are reviewed Non-executive Directors, who, on appointment, are each made during the evaluation process.
While we do not run an extensive aware of the need to allocate sufficient time to the Company programme of one-size-ts all training, Directors are encouraged to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
In the event that a to pursue an individually tailored development programme Directors external commitments change once appointed, they are throughout the year, comprising a mixture of formal seminars led required to make the Board aware as soon as practicable so that by external advisers: ofce and site visits: as well as governance any potential conict of interest, time commitment challenge or and health and safety training.
During 2014, various ofce and site residency status issue can be considered.
visits were accommodated and an externally facilitated training workshop entitled A Price Worth Paying was provided to the A report on the activities of the Nominations Committee Audit Committee members and attendees in November.
Chairman induction programme their concerns: meeting with our On the visit, Iwas given a tour of the auditors, external lawyers and brokers: platform by senior management, meeting and attending meetings and seminars both employees and client representatives.
My second trip was to the LagganIn addition to visiting our ofces, Tormore project on the Shetland Islands.
Ibelieved it was essential for me to As reported on page 11, this has been a seesome of our operations first hand.
difficult project and the subject of much I visited the Bab Habshan and Bab recent Board debate.
It was therefore Compression projects in Abu Dhabi with very helpful to visit the site in order to the rest of the Board in October 2014, understand better some of the aswell as attending two further site challenges being faced.
My schedule of meetings and visits since I wanted to visit one of our offshore my appointment has been extensive.
installations and consequently It has required me to make a substantial underwent compulsory offshore survival time commitment, with the Company training, at our Training Centre in providing significant managerial and Following my appointment as Chairman, Aberdeen in November, without which logistical support to make these trips a detailed and tailored programme was I would have been unable to travel happen.
Nevertheless, I think the initiated to ensure I had a full offshore.
I took the earliest opportunity programme of visits has been understanding of the role and my new to visit an offshore installation, the worthwhile.
It has given me a better responsibilities.
This programme included Forties Alpha platform, in the UKCS.
understanding of the many day-to-day meeting individually with senior I was able to experience first-hand some operational challenges faced by our management for each Group function: of the challenges faced when living and employees and management teams and visiting our ofces in London, Aberdeen, working 180km off the coast of Aberdeen this insight is of enormous value back Woking, Mexico and Sharjah, and meeting including sharing a room with one of in the Boardroom.
both management and project teams: our regular offshore workers as we meeting with some of our significant arrived on the platform late in the day.
shareholders so that I could understand Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 79 Annual report and accounts 2014 an increased focus on succession planning for both the Board This workshop covered risk and governance matters and sought to highlight the potentially disastrous consequences when a board and management does not discharge its responsibilities with appropriate curiosity and the development of non-financial key performance indicators persistence.
Over the course of this year, over 200 hours of training were recorded.
As a Board we recognise that this is a continuous process and for 2014 2015, one-to-one interviews with each Director have been held by me to recognise individual performance and contribution, Re-appointment of Directors In line with the UK Code, all Directors seek re-appointment by as well as giving consideration to the principal findings and recommendations from the external evaluation process and shareholders at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
In addition, the terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are identifying further development opportunities.
This will ensure available for inspection by any person at our registered ofce in we continue to have an effective Board.
Thomas Thune Andersen, Jersey and at our corporate services ofce in London.
They are as SID, will conduct an evaluation with me in my role as Chairman also made available for inspection during the 30 minutes prior later in 2015. to the start of our AGM each year.
Dealing with potential conicts of interest Our induction programme As far as is possible, the other Directors and I endeavour to While we had no new appointments in 2014, individually tailored avoid conicts of interest with the Company.
However, potential induction programmes are prepared for each new appointment conicts can occasionally arise during a term of appointment and accordingly, we have processes and procedures in place that to the Board.
We nd this is the best approach as it allows the Company to account for differing requirements and needs, require Directors to identify and declare any actual or potential concentrating on key focus areas to ensure the relevant Director conicts of interest, whether matter-specic or situational.
is fully prepared for their new role.
All new appointees spend time Such notications are required to be made by the Director with each of the Executive Directors and are encouraged to meet concerned prior to, or at, a Board meeting and all Directors have a with senior members of operational and functional management duty to update the whole Board of any changes in circumstances.
to gain a deeper understanding of the Company.
They also attend In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the a compulsory presentation led by Freshelds on the role and Board may authorise potential conicts which can be limited in responsibilities of being a UK-listed company director.
During the year, all conict management procedures were adhered to and operated effectively, with most potential conicts quickly resolved or having no impact on the running of the Board.
Evaluation of Board effectiveness The Board understands the benets of annual evaluations, In August 2014, Thomas Thune Andersen was appointed both for the Board as a whole, its Committees and for Directors Chairman of Dong Energy A S Dong.
Dong is a junior member on an individual basis, and believes they can provide a of the client consortium on our Laggan-Tormore project.
valuable opportunity for continuous improvement.
At the end Prior to being appointed to Dong, Thomas raised the potential of 2013, the Board engaged the services of Sheena Crane to appointment with the Chairman who, having consulted with conduct an externally facilitated evaluation.
Ms Crane is an Ayman, agreed that any potential conict could be appropriately independent facilitator and has no other connection to the Group.
managed and that the appointment would not therefore The evaluation involved attendance at Board and Committee compromise Thomass effectiveness as a Director of Petrofac.
meetings, with full access to all papers, as well as one-to-one Following Thomas appointment to the Dong board, the Board interviews with each Director: the Group Director of Legal and has, for commercial reasons, increased its level of ongoing Commercial Affairs: and the Secretary to the Board.
The feedback review of the Laggan-Tormore contract.
As a result, Thomas from the evaluation was reviewed by Norman Murray, our previous hasabsented himself from all Board and Committee discussions Chairman, and the full report setting out her observations and relating to this project, the Secretary has not sent any papers on recommendations, was presented to the Board in February 2014. the matter to him and, minutes circulated have been redacted.
The review observed that the Board works well as a group and As detailed on page 7, Norman very unexpectedly stepped the level of constructive challenge, along with the openness of the down from our Board as Chairman in August.
As SID, I would contribution from individual Directors, results in a positive dynamic at have ordinarily led the process to identify a potential successor.
Directors reported to Ms Crane that they felt that there However, to avoid any conict of interest Thomas Thune Andersen had been a marked improvement in the challenges being raised by was appointed by the Board to lead the exercise.
the Audit and Board Risk Committees and this was considered to be indicative of improved risk management practices across the Group.
Deeds of indemnity As well as these positive observations, the evaluation identied In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the a number of areas where the Board might improve and maximum extent permitted by Jersey law, all Directors and these include: Ofcers of Petrofac Limited are provided with deeds of indemnity in respect of liabilities which may be incurred as a result of their improved oversight of ongoing project execution ofce.
In addition, Petrofac has appropriate insurance coverage better financial risk assessments in relation to projects subject regarding legal action which may be brought against the Directors to Board approval and its Ofcers.
Neither the Companys indemnities nor insurance would provide any cover where a Director or officer was found to more regular and rigorous updates on strategy execution have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Petrofac 80 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued The process of identication is both top-down and bottomAccountability up so that management is able to review and challenge at each level, in addition to which, management at all levels of Risk management and internal control systems the hierarchy review and address the risks for which they are The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of organisationally responsible.
Petrofacs risk management and internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
These are Delivery of our goals considered by reference to the work undertaken during the year As detailed within the Strategic Report, Petrofacs strategy and by both the Audit and Board Risk Committees, in addition to the business plan set out the Groups priorities which are designed regular reports received from members of management with to increase shareholder value over the medium to long term.
responsibility for the Groups material enterprise risks.
To facilitate Five-year business plans, which set financial targets for the Group the year-end process, the Audit and Board Risk Committees and incorporate risk analysis as a matter of course, are also held a joint meeting in order to provide the Board with formal submitted to the Board annually for approval.
The Group formally assurance on the robustness, integrity and effectiveness of the measures performance against these strategic goals and financial Groups financial controls and the Groups risk management targets quarterly, with each Business Unit reporting its operational systems in relation to the Groups enterprise risks and project progress monthly.
At each Board meeting, Ayman provides a and investment risks thus enabling the Board to take a view full update on business operations, highlighting and discussing on whether or not the Group has sound risk management and any possible impediments to the delivery of our Group goals and internal control systems in place.
The Board is satisfied that noting all significant health, safety and security matters.
sound risk management and internal control systems have been in place across the Group throughout 2014 and as at the date The Board also receives comprehensive financial reports from our when the 2014 financial statements were approved.
Petrofac also Chief Financial officer, thus ensuring the Board is kept informed seeks to have a sound system of internal control, based on the of the Groups financial performance for the year to date, as Groups policies and guidelines, in all material associates and joint compared with the years budget or the latest revised forecast, with ventures.
As with all companies, our systems of internal control explanations for any variances.
We continue to develop a broader and risk management are designed to mitigate and manage rather set of financial and non-financial key performance indicators, which than eliminate business risk and can only ever provide reasonable, we believe should assist us in monitoring delivery of our goals.
and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
4 Disclosures Identifying Petrofacs significant risks There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing The Board Risk Committee receives a Key Risk Report KRR Rule 9.8.
4. which identies the principal risks facing the Company and evaluates the likelihood of their incidence, and their impact on Remuneration the Group if they were to materialise.
The Board Risk Committee assesses the availability and likely effectiveness of the actions that How do we decide what Directors are paid?
are planned to manage and mitigate these risks in order to avoid Responsibility for determining the remuneration payable to the or reduce the impact of the underlying risk.
In terms of process, Non-executive Directors lies with the full Board, and therefore risks which appear in the KRR are identied, managed, and the Executive Directors and I effectively determine the fees reported at five primary levels within the Group, as set out in the payable to Non-executive Directors, albeit independent external diagram below.
At the lowest level Level 5 we identify operational advice is taken.
These fees are reviewed each year and further risks.
Relevant geographical, regional or portfolio exposures are details are provided on page 111.
All remuneration matters, introduced at Level 4.
Risks to specic Business Service Lines including terms of appointment, for the Chairman, the Executive appear at Level 3.
Tactical risks are introduced at Divisional level Directors and some members of senior management is 2 and nally, risks to the delivery of our strategy are identied and determined by the Remuneration Committee.
A detailed report reviewed at Level 1 Group level.
The KRR consolidates each on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is provided of these exposures.
Further details on the Principal risks can be found on pages 26 to 29.
Group Division Business Service Line Geographical region Operations individual projects and assets Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 81 Annual report and accounts 2014 A brokers report is circulated in advance of each Board meeting Relations with shareholders and in addition, Jonathan Low, our Head of Investor Relations, circulates brokers research notes throughout the year.
This year Our major shareholders a representative from one of our corporate brokers, JP Morgan In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules Cazenove, also attended one of our Board meetings to provide a DTR 5, as at 31 December 2014 and at the date of this report, thorough update on market sentiment, including areas of potential the Company had received notication of the following material shareholder concern in relation to the Company.
interests in voting rights over the Companys issued ordinary share capital: Any Director who has undertaken any kind of shareholder engagement is encouraged to provide the full Board with an Number of Percentage of update at the next scheduled meeting.
Considering all of the ordinary shares issued share capital above, I believe that the Board is provided with a thorough insight Ayman Asfari andfamily 62,958,426 18.20% into shareholder sentiment.
Maroun Semaan andfamily 27,545,091 7.96% Considerable importance is placed on communications with our shareholders, whether they are large institutional shareholders or Standard Life Investments Ltd 17,327,409 5.01% private shareholders, and accordingly, all shareholder documents, market announcements, together with recorded interviews Shareholder engagements and recognition are available on our website, which we hope encourages of shareholdersviews shareholders to become more informed investors.
As a Board, we acknowledge our responsibilities to promote the success of Petrofac for many of our stakeholders, however We intend to hold an extended presentation with our full year our principal focus is, of course, our shareholders.
This year results in London on 25 February 2015, to provide an update on shareholder sentiment has inevitably been an area of increased the Groups strategy and financial prole.
Each of our Executive discussion given our two profits warnings and decline in Directors, as well as members of senior management, will be share price.
in attendance to answer questions on strategic outlook.
Each year our Investor Relations team schedules a programme Our annual general meeting AGM of meetings with existing and potential shareholders.
This Full details of this years AGM, which will be held in London, are programme includes meetings following the publication of our set out in the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report full and half year results.
Presentations to institutional investors and which is also available on our website.
As a matter of good and research analysts, including question and answer sessions, practice, we will conduct all resolutions on a poll and announce are also provided.
These presentations are broadcast live on our the results to the Market as soon as possible after the meeting.
website and accordingly may be followed by all shareholders.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM at In addition, management also arranges calls or meetings at much which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board shorter notice, usually following the release of trading updates to and meet with those Directors able to attend.
During 2014, over 300 investor meetings were held are unable to attend the AGM are invited to email questions to by the Investor Relations team, of which Ayman and or Tim me in advance at agmquestions@petrofac.
I look forward to attended approximately 40%.
seeing as many of you as possible this year when my colleagues Our Non-executive Directors also engage with our shareholders and I will be available to answer your questions.
This year, we have had several such engagements.
Early in the year, Norman met a number of Rijnhard van Tets institutional investors to discuss governance matters in general Chairman and to explain in particular the Companys position in relation 24 February 2015 to our remuneration recruitment policy and the Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations 2013.
Thomas undertook a formal process of engagement with shareholders in August prior to my appointment as Chairman and, towards the end of the year I met, in my new role, with a number of institutional shareholders and some key voting and advisory service providers.
Finally, both Ren and Stefano have met with a shareholder adviser, who specically requested a meeting with the chairmen of our Audit and Board Risk Committees.
