Petrofac 18 Annual report and accounts 2014 Resources and relationships To meet our clients needs and solve their problems, we have developed a unique delivery-focused culture, and assembled a complex network of relationships.
Capabilities and people Operational Excellence Within Petrofac, people tend to take a holistic We have built a strong reputation for view of the full scope of every project, rather commitment and delivery, and demonstrated than just the part that involves them.
many times that we can go the extra mile.
The Petrofac story is characterised by the steady expansion of our Unlike some markets, where buyers can easily ascertain the capabilities.
This enables us to access new markets and address quality of the product, our clients can only assess the quality of client needs.
It also means that, as we bid on new projects, we our service through long-term experience.
So, our business model can tailor a bespoke package of services and solutions from depends on our ability to continually provide a range of services across the Group for each client.
and capabilities that are recognised as consistently high quality.
To do this successfully, internal relationships must be strong and From the moment we decide to bid on a project, the discipline mutually beneficial, and it must be in everyones interests to be begins.
A team is assembled, a tailor-made execution plan is exible and share expertise.
developed, risks are identied, suppliers are engaged, and a member of the management team takes full responsibility for To this end, we are putting more emphasis on our human its delivery.
resource processes progressively building our leadership capability as well as our skills base: actively looking for With a clear understanding of cost and complexity, we can then opportunities for key people to move between different parts bring our best-in-class, on-time delivery culture.
At every step of the Group: and establishing a global cohort of closely of the way, formal reviews ensure incremental improvements networked, highly collaborative employees.
This level of rigour is reected in everything we do.
In-country value Financial Capital This is about employing local people, building Unless it makes clear business sense, Petrofac local capabilities and engaging with local prefers not to tie up its money in equipment, communities.
In so doing, we aim to aid vehicles or any other physical assets.
Petrofac is a business built on the capabilities of its staff.
We tend All of our projects, in one way or another, involve local to invest our money in developing our skills and expertise rather stakeholders, draw on local supply chains, and have an impact than in physical assets.
That is where our specialism lies.
It is why on local communities.
we are able to earn differentiated margins and it is what many shareholders have come to expect.
We have always had a commitment to local delivery, by employing local people, working with local suppliers and developing local However, there are exceptions.
On occasion, we will co-invest capabilities.
This has become a key consideration for many clients with a client in the case of a Risk Service Contract, or an and also enables us to work cost-effectively.
As our Company Equity Upstream Investment and in certain circumstances, matures, we take an ever more rigorous approach to our social we will invest in specialist equipment that simply isnt available performance and our contribution to local economies.
on the rental markets such asthe Petrofac JSD6000 offshore installation vessel.
Meanwhile, our project teams call on a broad network of local suppliers, and their knowledge of the industry ecosystem is a To maintain our own financial liquidity or capital efficiency, key asset.
They also build close relationships with our partners.
we tap into third-party funds.
For example, our partnership with Clearly, relationships with clients are central to delivering projects First Reserve aligns Petrofac with a US$4 billion infrastructure and winning new contracts.
This puts us in contention for the type of opportunities where aclient needs a financial partner just asmuch as they need aservice company.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 19 Annual report and accounts 2014 Project delivery We have a relentless inKuwait Its a challenging environment.
The heat can focuson project delivery.
The browneld sites can be strewn with undocumented pipelines, live cables and, in some cases, unexploded Youcan see the evidence munitions.
Then, stepping through the requisite bureaucracy, it can take some time to get access permissions in place.
All par for onevery Petrofac project.
the course when we are executing projects that are part of a countrys critical national infrastructure.
Butagood example is our Petrofac tends to thrive in these circumstances, withexperienced project workin Kuwait.
teams thinking through challenges, developing plans and focusing on details.
A case in point is our work on the Kuwait Oil Companys KOC new power distribution network, which was completed ahead of schedule, earned a customer satisfaction rating of 9.5out of 10, and received a prestigious environmental award.
Equally challenging was the construction oflarge gas and oil pipelines totalling some180km in existing live corridors with associated facilities in browneld areas, also for KOC, from Mina Al Ahmadi to the Azzour and Shuaiba Power Stations.
This projects safety record was outstanding, with more than 15 million man hours worked with no losttime for injury and this exceptional achievement also secured a prestigious KOC award for HSSE excellence.
Within the next five years, plans are afoot toboost Kuwaits oil production from 3.3 to4.0 million barrels per day.
With several mega-projects underway, Petrofac is playing an important role.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train
