Petrofac 84 Annual report and accounts 2014 Audit Committee report Ren Mdori Chairman of the Audit Committee Role of the Committee Membership and attendance at meetings held during 2014 Monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements Members Meetings attended eligible and reviews significant financial reporting judgements.
Ren Mdori 3 3 Reviews the effectiveness of financial, compliance controls Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 and systems.
Kathleen Hogenson 3 3 Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit 1 Rijnhard van Tets 2 2 function and reviews its material findings.
Reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process 1 Rijnhard van Tets was a member of the Committee until 22 August 2014 and independence of the external auditors.
How the Committee spent its time during the year Approves the remuneration of the external auditors and makes recommendations to the Board regarding their External Audit, including Governance Other 10% non-audit services review 17% re-appointment.
Code of Conduct Advises the Board on whether the Annual Report Whistleblowing 10% and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
Tax update 7% Financial reporting 31% Terms of reference Internal control systems 25% Terms of reference setting out the role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee were reviewed during the year and other than changes to Committee membership, no amendments were made.
Copies are available on our website.
Audit Committee priorities for 2015 Continued oversight of IES assets.
Revenue and cost recognition of key contracts.
Taxation matters in the enhanced global reporting environment.
Ensure provisions under new Corporate Governance Code are met.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 85 Annual report and accounts 2014 All members of the Committee are considered by the Board Dear shareholder tobe independent Non-executive Directors in compliance with As has already been discussed, 2014 was difficult for Petrofac the UK Code and have a wide range of business experience.
and the Committee has been actively engaged in assisting the In keeping with best practice, following his appointment as Board in how it responds to some of those recent challenges.
Chairman of the Board, Rijnhard van Tets stepped down as a member of the Committee in August 2014.
I wish to express my The Committee met formally three times during the year, at thanks to Rijnhard for his contribution to the Committee.
The audit key times within our financial reporting cycle.
Arguably the partners from Ernst & Young LLP and the Head of Internal Audit most significant meeting is held in February each year when attend all Committee meetings, with the Chairman, Group Chief the Committee considers the previous years financial results Executive, Chief Financial officer, and selected members of senior and the Groups draft financial statements.
In 2014, the Board management also attending meetings by invitation.
decided for the first time that this meeting should be a joint one between the Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
As previously noted on page 72, in September 2014, the Financial It was believed that this would provide the Board with a more Reporting Council FRC published an updated version of the comprehensive and coherent assessment of the Groups risk UK Code, together with Guidance on Risk Management, Internal management framework, given the requirement for the Board Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Both of to provide assurance on the Groups system of internal controls these guidance requirements will take effect for financial years within the annual financial statements.
In February 2015, the Audit beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The Committee is aware of and Board Risk Committees once again held a joint meeting to the new obligations set out within these reports and plans for the consider the Groups framework of controls comprising financial, adoption of the relevant provisions are in place for financial year operational and compliance controls.
The Committees concluded 2015 and these will be reported on next year.
that the Group continues to operate a sound system of controls and accordingly provided the Board with an assessment to Ren Mdori that effect.
Chairman of the Audit Committee In considering general financial reporting matters during the year, 24 February 2015 including the 2014 financial statements, the Committee focused on how the Group accounts for significant OEC contracts, paying particular attention to the timing of revenue and cost recognition, as well as the carrying value ascribed to IES assets, particularly given the sudden decline in the oil price in the second half of the year.
Other matters considered by the Committee during the course of the year included solvency and going concern matters, the Companys tax position, fraud protection arrangements and operational challenges on long-term contracts.
The Committee concluded that management had adopted an appropriate approach in all significant areas noting that several IES assets had been impaired as at 31 December 2014.
Taken as a whole, the Committee considers the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides shareholders with the necessary information to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Petrofac 86 Annual report and accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued Activities during the year Internal audit The Committee assists the Board in the effective discharge of The Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the its responsibilities for financial reporting and internal control.
effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and financial As set out in our Directors statements on page 113, Directors controls.
To assist with this, the Group Head of Internal Audit, are responsible for the preparation of Group financial statements, who is tasked with providing the Committee with assurances on in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the adequacy of internal financial controls, attends each meeting.
The Group has an internal control and risk management In addition, the Committee also meets with the Group Head of framework in place which includes policies and procedures to Internal Audit without any members of the Executive Management ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and team present.
transactions are accurately recorded to ensure the Companys In February, the Committee considered and approved the financial reports and communications to the Market give a clear internal audit plan to be executed over the course of the year.
and balanced assessment of the Companys position.
In addition Summary progress reports were provided at each subsequent to the matters considered during the year, set out below, the meeting, detailing key findings of the work undertaken by the Committee also reviewed the 2014 full year results and this Annual internal audit department.
The reports highlighted any significant Report and Accounts at the beginning of 2015. areas of concern, which were then discussed and where required, action plans to address any matters raised were agreed with Matters considered and reviewed by the Committee management.
During the year, necessary amendments to during the year are summarised in the table below: the internal audit plan were considered and approved by the Feb Aug Nov Committee and were usually required in instances where: Financial reporting the level of risk had increased, or decreased signicantly: or Full and half-year financial statements including associated announcements circumstances within the Group had changed: or Consideration of going concern statement, liquidity specically requested by management.
review, cash ow forecasts and compliance with all financial reporting requirements Following on from the work started in 2013, KPMG-Forensics completed their independent fraud risk assessment FRA within The Companys dividend policy, including the OEC business.
Further FRA exercises by PwC and Deloitte consideration of the solvency statement required have now commenced within OPO and the IES Mexico business under Companies Jersey Law 1991 respectively, which aim to understand the major fraud risks which Appropriateness of the Companys may affect each business and to identify any weaknesses in accounting policies our current processes.
This work will continue throughout 2015.
Long-term contracting and impairment reports We believe that these exercises are very timely, as during 2014, a small number of cases of potential fraud were identied in different Internal controls parts of the business.
Each of these issues, whilst not material in Internal audit report, including the approval the context of the Groups results, was brought to the attention and monitoring of the 2014 internal audit plan of the Committee with full investigations conducted and ongoing.
and draft 2015 plan During 2015, continued assurance that all appropriate internal control changes have been implemented will be sought from Effectiveness of the internal control framework financial and non-financial controls internal audit.
Appropriateness of the Companys non-audit Internal controls services policy The Committee considered the Groups overall system of Details of the Groups related party transactions internal controls which are broadly divided according to three Application of the Companys fraud policy categories: operational effectiveness and efficiency: reliability of financial reporting: and compliance with applicable laws and The Companys compliance with its tax ling regulations in accordance with the requirements of the Turnbull and reporting obligations Guidance on Internal Control.
As the Group has grown, the risks Whistleblowing review in relation to matters faced have evolved.
Our internal control framework has had to of a financial nature adjust accordingly and assurance is now also being provided Consideration of the Committees terms of reference in accordance with the revised COSO framework.
As such, initiatives necessary to align our methodology for identifying, External auditors evaluating and managing risk were adopted during the course of 2014 audit plan the year.
Major internal control themes were considered at each Reports regarding assessments and findings meeting, with particular attention given by the Committee to any in respect of the full and half-year results weaknesses identied and need for a systematic approach to be taken for managing risk.
Letters of representation Annual review of independence and effectiveness Appropriateness of the proposed audit fee for the year, having regard to the non-audit services policy Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 87 Annual report and accounts 2014 A joint meeting of the Committee and the Board Risk Committee Non-audit services was held at year-end so that combined formal assurance could To safeguard the objectivity of our external auditors and to ensure be given to the Board that effective governance, risk management the independence of the audit is not compromised, we have a and control processes were in place as required by the UK Code.
non-audit services policy that sets out the circumstances where This assurance covered all material controls, including financial, we may appoint our external auditors to undertake additional nonoperational and compliance controls.
To ensure compliance with this policy, the Committee regularly reviews the Groups cumulative non-audit spend and External auditors furthermore gives prior approval to the appointment of EY should Ernst & Young LLP EY have been the Companys auditors since the nature or size of the proposed work require it.
The Committee initial listing, and provide the Committee with reports, information is satisfied that EYs objectivity and independence has not been and advice throughout the year.
The Committee remain satisfied affected by any non-audit work undertaken by them during as to the auditors effectiveness and, in making this assessment, the year.
had due regard to their expertise and understanding of the Group, There were no breaches in 2014 of the US$300,000 threshold their resourcing capabilities, independence and objectivity.
requiring prior approval by the Committee.
During the year, the Annually, the Committee meets with the auditors without Committee reiterated the importance of ensuring the non-audit management present to discuss any significant issues, not least fee remained below 50% of the total audit fee and the non-audit the conduct of the audit.
In addition, the Committee Chairman spend for the year, as a percentage of the overall audit fee, was has regular contact with the lead audit partner outside of formal 21% 2013: 32%.
The majority of these costs relate largely to Committee meetings.
the use of EY in certain jurisdictions, mainly in North Africa, the Each year, EY set out their proposed audit approach and Middle East and Central Asia, to provide advice and in-country scope to ensure that the audit is aligned with the Committees tax compliance services.
We feel that given EYs experience, expectations.
This is done with due regard to continuing their presence in these regions assures us that they are the most developments within the Company, such as for 2014, the revenue appropriate provider of this work.
Details of the fees in respect of and margin recognition of ECOM long-term contracts, orders audit and non-audit related services can be found on page 141 placed to commence construction of the Petrofac JSD6000 and in note 4e to the financial statements.
vessel, operational challenges and the ongoing execution of IES The non-audit services policy provides clear denitions of projects, disposals using the PetroFirst vehicle, and publication services that our external auditors may and may not provide.
of the revised earnings guidance in both May and November.
New EU legislation has introduced increased restrictions on audit Where changes to the audit scope have occurred during the rms providing certain non-audit services and the timing of the year, the Committee has been encouraged by the auditors UK adoption of these regulations is being closely monitored.
interaction with the Committee Chairman and management to The Committee however, considers that the existing policy ensure no adverse impact occurs to the overall audit process, remains appropriate but will revisit the policy once the new thereby ensuring strong governance processes.
At year-end, a regime has been formally adopted in the UK.
The current policy, report was provided to the Committee detailing areas of audit a copy of which can be found on the Companys website, is risk, the findings of which were reviewed and considered by summarised below.
Non-audit services policy Audit tender The external auditors are automatically prohibited from carrying The UK Code provides that a listed company should put its out work which might impair their objectivity.
external audit contract out to public tender at least every ten years.
The Committee gave consideration to the re-appointment The CFO will seek approval from the Committee before of the external auditor during 2014 and decided that it would not appointing the external auditors to carry out a piece of non-audit undertake a formal audit tender during this period.
An external work where: audit rm is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the fee is above US$300,000: or the Group audit every five years and the Companys current audit partner was appointed following the end of the 2012 yeartotal non-audit fees for the year are approaching 50% of the end audit.
The Committee had previously considered adopting annual audit fee: or the published recommendations to tender the audit after the the external auditors would ordinarily be prohibited from carrying end of our current audit partner tenure in 2018.
The Company out the work under the Companys non-audit services policy, will actively monitor this area, including the proposed changes but not prohibited under Ethical Standard 5, and the CFO wants recommended by the EU and Competition Commission, and will to appoint them due to exceptional circumstances.
take any necessary actions where a tender is required ahead of our current expectations.
The CFO may appoint the external auditor to do other types of non-audit work as listed in the policy.
Petrofac 88 Annual report and accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued significant judgements significant judgements considered by the Committee during the year are set out in the table below: significant judgements significant judgements considered by considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee Revenue and margin The Committee reviewed the Goodwill and In response to the volatility in oil prices, recognition on xed reasonableness of judgements made asset impairment the Committee requested management price engineering, regarding the cost to complete estimates, to strengthen its impairment testing for procurement the timing of recognition of variation IES contracts and individual projects, and construction orders and the adequacy of contingency an initiative which was supported by the contracts provisions to mitigate contract specic external auditors.
IES investment reports risks for projects signicantly behind were presented to the full Board twice schedule.
Consideration was also given during the year, with updates being to the assessments made in relation to provided to the Committee at each the recognition of liquidated damage meeting.
As part of the half year process, provisions and to the impact of certain management conducted an analysis of larger contracts being entered into as the IES assets and held discussions with part of consortiums.
The Committee held the external auditor to review the findings.
discussions with Executive Directors and It was agreed that greater consistency of received regular internal audit reports into the methodology used in the impairment the operating effectiveness of internal calculation, standardisation of impairment controls relevant to these judgements.
valuations built into planning models and The external auditors challenged an enhanced sign-off procedure had management on the revenue recognition improved the process.
The impact of the amounts and reported their findings to the negative oil price movement and its effect Committee.
on goodwill and asset impairment testing was considered as part of the year-end The Committee concluded that the timing process.
of recognition continues to be in line with IFRS requirements although ongoing Oil price volatility The price of Brent crude fell substantially monitoring of the judgements was in the latter part of 2014.
The volatility requested as part of the Groups regular in oil and gas prices and the effect management reporting.
this may have on IES assets as well as future investments in the industry was Accounting The appropriateness of the accounting considered by the Committee.
The for IES contracts treatments adopted in respect of the situation will continue to be monitored subsisting IES contracts was reviewed throughout 2015. by the Committee.
Initial recognition and subsequent accounting for these Taxation The tax positions within the Group were IES contracts is an area of focus for the reviewed by the Committee to ensure external auditor but, given that no new IES that the Groups effective tax rate, tax contracts were entered into during 2014, provisions and the recognition of deferred they addressed this issue as part of their tax assets continue to be appropriate.
work on goodwill and asset impairment.
Taxation issues were discussed with The Committee was content that the senior management and a report outlining accounting treatment adopted in respect key tax issues was reviewed.
The external of IES contracts continued to be in line auditor also reported to the Committee on with IFRS requirements.
the findings of their audit of the Groups tax charge and provisions.
significant changes in the global tax landscape were considered and the Committee agreed that preparations be made to ensure the Company will be able to respond to the enhanced global reporting requirements over the next few years.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 89 Annual report and accounts 2014 Whistleblowing The Board Risk Committee has responsibility for the Companys whistleblowing policy, which includes our Speak Up programme, details of which are provided on page 65.
However, in accordance with the Companys Code of Conduct, any alleged breaches of this code in connection with financial matters are reported to the Committee.
During the year, a small number of incidents involving the override of major internal controls were identied including non-compliance with the Code of Conduct and these were duly reported to the Committee.
Discussions were held to outline the investigation and actions taken, including preventative activities required to avoid recurrence.
Training In November, a training workshop was facilitated by Dechert LLP, and was attended by all Committee members, in addition to other Directors, Executive Management and the external audit partner.
The interactive session centred around the lm, A Price Worth Paying and a wide range of topics were discussed, including risk management, internal controls, whistleblowing and fraud.
Committee members are also encouraged to attend any relevant external seminars run by professional advisers throughout the year if it is felt relevant.
