Petrofac 82 Annual report and accounts 2014 Nominations Committee report Dear shareholder This has been a very busy year for the Committee as it was required to devote considerable time and consideration to the Boards composition as well as succession planning both at Board and senior management level.
2014 Board changes Norman Murrays departure from the Board for compassionate reasons in August was unexpected.
After three years as Chairman, I would like to extend the Boards thanks to Norman for his exemplary leadership and significant contribution to the Company and we extend our best wishes to him.
On notication Rijnhard van Tets from Norman of his intentions, the Committee gave due Chairman of the Nominations Committee consideration to all necessary governance requirements and ensured that a full and detailed process to nd a successor was followed.
Ordinarily, as the Senior Independent Director Role of the Committee SID at the time, I would have led that process.
However, given Regularly reviews the composition and structure of the Board that at an early stage the Board had expressed the view that I and its Committees.
should be considered to take over from Norman, to avoid any conict of interest on my part, the Committee appointed Thomas Identies and recommends for Board approval suitable Thune Andersen to conduct an independent review of potential candidates to be appointed to the Board.
successors to ensure that a fair and transparent process was Considers succession planning for Directors and other senior followed.
Thomas engaged in a series of discussions with each executives and in doing this considers diversity, experience, Board member myself excluded, as well as with our brokers, knowledge and skills.
lawyers and key institutional shareholders.
The result was that the Committee supported my appointment to Chairman a role Terms of reference which I was honoured to accept.
Having been on the Board since The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year.
2007 and SID since 2011, I felt I already had a good working Copies are available on our website.
relationship with each of our Directors and was aware of many of the issues facing the Company and the Board.
Over the last Membership and attendance at meetings held during 2014 few months, however, I have had the opportunity to gain a fuller Members Meetings attended eligible understanding of the day-to-day operational challenges being faced and, as a result, feel I am ableto offer a better informed Rijnhard van Tets 5 5 view in boardroom discussions.
1 Norman Murray 3 3 We announced in last years report that Andy Inglis would Thomas Thune Andersen 5 5 leave the Board with effect from February 2014, following the Ayman Asfari 5 5 publication of our 2013 final results.
Following the announcement of his departure, Rob Jewkes assumed the role of Chief Operating Stefano Cao 5 5 officer of the IES division, with Ayman overseeing the strategic Roxanne Decyk 5 5 management of this business.
2 Kathleen Hogenson 4 5 2014 Focus Ren Mdori 5 5 Succession planning continued to be a main focus and this 1 Norman Murray stepped down from the Board on 22 August 2014. year the Committee devoted more than 50% of its time on it.
The Committee is very aware of its responsibilities in relation 2 Kathleen Hogenson was unable to attend one meeting due to an unforeseen family emergency.
to Board and senior management succession plans to ensure that unforeseen changes are managed effectively and How the Committee spent its time during the year 2014 efficiently, without disruption to the Groups strategy or day-to-day operations.
Search for Board composition Directors 15% 18% Governance Other 12% Succession planning 55% Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 83 Annual report and accounts 2014 Committee structures 2015 Plans As a result of my new appointment in August, the Committee As part of its remit, the Committee has responsibility for the took the opportunity to review the role of SID as well as the identication and recommendation of prospective Directors for composition of our Board Committees.
It was agreed by the Board approval.
A formal procedure for selecting and recruiting Board that Thomas Thune Andersen, with four years of Board Directors is in place, and extensive consideration is given to service and having broad experience of the UK market, as well identifying the capabilities required of potential candidates, taking as familiarity with the Companys institutional shareholders having into account the balance of existing skills, knowledge, experience led previous consultation exercises in his capacity as Chairman and diversity on the Board.
of the Remuneration Committee, should be appointed as SID with Following the departure of both Norman and soon Roxanne immediate effect.
It was also recommended that, in accordance from the Board, we initiated a search for at least one new Nonwith the UK Code, I would resign as a member of the Audit and executive Director at the end of 2014.
Working with Korn Ferry, Board Risk Committees, although I continue to be invited to anexecutive search rm with whom we have no other relationship, attend meetings, as required.
Details of the current membership we identied a number of potential candidates with international of each Committee are disclosed within the individual and relevant industry experience.
We are now in a position to Committee reports.
unanimously recommend to shareholders that Matthias Bichsel be appointed to the Board at our forthcoming AGM.
Matthias has Diversity over 30 years relevant experience, most recently as Director of Details of our current gender diversity statistics are set out below.
Projects & Technology at Royal Dutch Shell plc.
He brings an At Board level, we have made good progress over the last few extensive understanding of the oil and gas industry from a clients years, achieving our published target of women on the Board perspective, in addition to invaluable insight and experience during the year.
However, Roxanne Decyk has informed us she will of project management.
The Committee plans to review the be stepping down from the Board at the end of our 2015 AGM in Committee structures following his appointment.
We wish to thank Roxanne for her contribution to the Board the Committee will continue to look at the possibility of another over the last four years and whilst consideration will be given to NED appointment in due course and when relevant, will provide the appointment of another female Director, our aim will always be the Board with a shortlist of candidates for further consideration.
to appoint the best candidate for the role, irrespective of gender.
We fully recognise that, across the Group, we continue to have a Talent management gender imbalance, but we are pleased to report that, even though We rmly believe that a talent pipeline is essential for ensuring the engineering remains a predominately male-dominated profession, Companys long-term success and over the past few years, HR approximately 21% of our graduate recruits during 2014 were processes have been embedded across the Group to assist in female, demonstrating our commitment to building diversity from retaining and developing existing employees while attracting new the bottom up.
Our framework for performance From the boardroom to our graduate intakes, we believe that and talent management allows us to identify clearly critical roles diversity is wider than simply gender and, as a consequence, and gaps which, in turn, informs our succession planning process.
consider that our business benets greatly from a varied Where weaknesses or development opportunities are identied on employee base of over 80 nationalities and, irrespective of an individual basis, action plans and bespoke training opportunities background or gender, we aim to recruit on merit and hire the have been developed to ensure that high-calibre employees have best candidates with the widest range of skills and experience.
the required skills and knowledge to become our future leaders.
Following the recent introduction of our groupwide Diversity and Inclusion Policy, an e-learning training module was made Rijnhard van Tets available to all employees during 2014.
It is our aim that the policy Chairman of the Nominations Committee will ensure equality of opportunity and fairness in all areas of 24 February 2015 employment, allowing us to value the diversity of our employees while promoting an inclusive culture across our business.
Gender diversity Women as a percentage of the total Board 25% Group 13% Senior management 10% Graduates 21% Excluding the Chairman
