Petrofac 68 Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors information 1 4 2 3 5 1.
Thomas Thune Andersen Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive, Engineering, Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Appointed May 2007, as Senior Construction, Operations Appointed October 2011.
Appointed May 2010 and as Senior Independent Director in May 2011 Independent Director from August 2014.
Board Committees and Maintenance and as Chairman from August 2014.
Board Committees Chairman of the Remuneration Key strengths Board Committees Chairman of the Committee: member of the Audit and Wide-ranging financial management None.
Strategic and financial Key strengths Key strengths planning, cost control and capital Key strengths Thorough knowledge of the oil Extensive financial background, with efficiencies.
External stakeholder Wide-ranging international experience and gas sector and contracting solid international board and senior communications, and management with broad knowledge of the energy environments.
Solid commercial, management experience achieved from and experience of major industry and markets.
Proven track operational and engineering experience.
serving on various company boards systems implementation.
record executing growth strategies and Excellent understanding of growing and advisory trusts.
Extensive knowledge Experience Joined Petrofac in September 2011 from Experience at board and senior management General partner of Laaken Asset Cable & Wireless Worldwide, where he Joined Petrofac in 1992 when the level from both an executive and Management NV.
He advised the had been chief financial officer between business was first established in Sharjah, non-executive standpoint.
managing board of ABN AMRO between May 2010 and July 2011.
Fellow of the having previously worked for CCC, a 2002 and 2007, having previously served Institute of Chartered Accountants in Experience major consolidated contractor company as a managing board member for 12 years.
England and Wales with a degree in Spent 32 years at the A. P. Mllerbased in the Gulf and the Middle East, for At ABN AMRO his roles included that of Engineering Science.
Started his career Mrsk Group, with an international eight years.
In 2007, he was appointed chairman of the wholesale clients and with KPMG, eventually becoming a career ending as CEO and president chief operating officer of the Engineering investment banking group.
partner in KPMGs Infrastructure of Mrsks oil and gas company.
& Construction International business, Business Unit.
Previously held chief Served on Mrsks main board and its External appointments with the day-to-day responsibility for the financial officer roles with RWE Thames executive committee from 2005 to 2009.
Non-executive chairman Euronext successful delivery of overall operations.
Water Limited and Innogy Holdings PLC Was a non-executive director of SSE Amsterdam NV and Euronext NV and In 2009, he became managing director now RWE npower Holdings PLC and plc until July 2014.
Since 2009, has had non-executive director of BNP Paribas of Engineering & Construction Ventures.
until May 2010, was chief financial officer a board portfolio in companies in the OBAM NV.
External appointments at United Utilities Group PLC.
Served energy and critical infrastructure sectors.
Member of the board of trustees of the as a non-executive director of BBC 2.
Ayman Asfari External appointments University of Balamand.
Chairman of the Lloyds Register Group Group Chief Executive External appointments and Board of Trustees for the Lloyds Appointed January 2002.
Non-executive director of the Carbon Foundation.
Chairman of DeepOcean Board Committees Trust and G4S plc.
Group and of Dong Energy A S. Member of the Nominations Committee.
Vice Chairman of VKR Holding.
Key strengths Distinguished record with strong operational leadership skills.
Clear strategic vision with an entrepreneurial track record.
Extensive business development skills and a wealth of oil industry knowledge.
Experience Joined the Group in 1991 to establish Petrofac International, of which he was CEO.
He has more than 30years experience in the oil and gas industry, having formerly worked as MD of a major civil and mechanical construction business in Oman.
External appointment Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Founder and Chairman of the Asfari Foundation.
Member of the board of trustees of the American University of Beirut and the Senior Panel of Advisors of Chatham House.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 69 Annual report and accounts 2014 6 8 9 7 6.
Ren Mdori Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed May 2010.
Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Chairman of the Board Risk Committee: Member of the Board Risk, Nominations Member of the Audit, Board Risk Chairman of the Audit Committee: member of the Nominations and and Remuneration Committees.
member of the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong track record in global and 30 years experience in the oil Key strengths Strong international business experience.
and gas industry, with particular Extensive and current international Broad knowledge of energy industry.
Extensive experience in the energy expertise in reservoir management financial experience.
Well-established significant knowledge of technical and industry and experience leading strategy and subsurface engineering.
knowledge of governance and regulatory commercial activities both as operator in several industries.
Communications, Extensive commercial and strategic matters.
Good understanding of and contractor.
sales and marketing knowledge including knowledge and proven operational operational and strategic management.
reputation and brand management leadership.
Entrepreneurial track Experience of balance sheet Experience expertise.
Sustainable development record and excellent understanding strengthening opportunities and the Has 32 years experience in the oil and knowledge, broad international human of growing a business.
whole range of nancing arrangements.
From February 2009 to resources knowledge.
July 2012 served as CEO of Sintonia Experience Experience SA, a holding company investing in Experience President and CEO of Zone Energy Finance director of Anglo American plc, infrastructure assets such as toll roads Retired from The Royal Dutch Shell LLC, a company she founded in 2009 a position he has held since September and airports.
Between 2000 and 2008 Group in December 2010, having held which focuses on the acquisition and 2005.
From June 2000 to May 2005 was chief operating officer of Enis a number of roles over an 11-year period development of oil and gas properties.
was group finance director of The BOC exploration and production division.
including head of global government From 2001 to 2007 was CEO of Santos Group plc, holding several finance Spent 24 years at Saipem SpA, the affairs and corporate affairs director.
USA Corporation, responsible for appointments, including finance director international oil and gas services group From 2005 to 2009 was a member of Santos Americas and Europe.
Has held of BOCs gases business in the Americas where he held a number of senior roles Shells executive committee.
Prior to a number of senior roles at Santos from 1997.
Until June 2012, was a nonincluding CEO, chairman and chief joining Shell, Roxanne had various roles Ltd, Unocal Corporation and Maxus executive director of SSE plc.
In 2013, he joined the at Amoco Corporation and Navistar Energy Corporation.
External appointments advisory board of Ambienta SGR, an International Corporation.
Stepped External appointments Executive director of Anglo American plc SME investment company which targets down as a director of Snap-on Inc President and CEO of Zone Energy and non-executive director of fide Beers the environmental sector.
Director of Parallel Petroleum and Anglo Platinum Limited.
External appointments External appointments LLC.
A member of the advisory Non-executive chairman of SPIG SpA: Independent director of Alliant board of Samsung Oil & Gas USA director of A2A SpA, Autostrade per Techsystems Inc. Ensco Inc. and Corporation and Trustee of the Society lItalia SpA and Aeroporti di Roma Digital Globe Inc. ofExploration Geophysicists.
Member of the advisory board ofAmbienta SGR.
