Petrofac 90 Annual report and accounts 2014 Board Risk Committee report Stefano Cao Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Role of the Committee Membership and attendance at meetings held during 2014 Recommends risk appetite and delegation of authorities.
Members Meetings attended eligible Approves the annual assurance plan for the review and Mr Stefano Cao Chairman 4 4 assessment of enterprise risks.
1 Mr Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 Reviews the Groups compliance system of corporate Ms Roxanne Decyk 4 4 standards and procedures for enterprise risks.
2 Ms Kathleen Hogenson 3 4 Recommends any areas of risk management change that Mr Ren Mdori 4 4 may be required for enterprise risks.
3 Mr Rijnhard van Tets 3 3 Reviews the Companys risk transfer strategy, including 1 Thomas Thune Andersen stepped down from the Committee on insurance provision.
Reviews the risk management and reporting systems for 2 Kathleen Hogenson was unable to attend one meeting due to an projects and investments including insurance provision.
3 Rijnhard van Tets stepped down from the Committee on 22 August 2014.
Reviews the Groups risk management maturity assessment process, and findings.
How the Committee spent its time during the year Terms of reference Internal control Compliance including framework 7% Terms of reference setting out the role and responsibilities bribery whistleblowing 14% of the Board Risk Committee were reviewed during the year Health and Safety 16% Group policies 7% and other than changes to Committee membership, no amendments were made.
Copies are available on our website.
Insurance 5% Security and Travel 10% Governance Other 12% Risk Management Framework 29% Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 91 Annual report and accounts 2014 As with all aspects of good governance, the effectiveness of risk Dear shareholder management and control also depends on the individuals responsible Recognising that this has been a tough year for the Company and for operating the systems.
In order to ensure the appropriate culture one of significant change, the Committee focused its attention on is in place, the Committee carried out a risk management maturity further embedding our risk and control frameworks, through greater assessment in 2014.
Analysis from which will be developed during systematisation of our risk processes and through deployment 2015 into a number of action plans to encourage and incentivise of the globally recognised 2013 version of the COSO internal desired behaviours and further increase capabilities so that they are control framework.
An example of which will be the improved awareness of new risks associated with entry into our offshore 2014 may be characterised as a year when many of the benets of construction operations.
the risk initiatives introduced over the past few years started to pay dividends, but this was unfortunately overtaken by incidences of poor Whilst the Committee has made great strides in developing a risk appraisal processes becoming apparent on three projects, two in more systematic and empirical approach to risk management and the UKCS Laggan-Tormore: and Greater Stella Area FPF1 dating back its oversight, it has also continued to rely on reports from various to their inceptions in 2010 11, and Ticleni in Romania.
functional heads as part of the general assurance process.
Our Group Head of Compliance, Group Treasurer, Group Director of HSSEIA, The Committee has drawn together a number of lessons learned from Group Head of IT, and Group Head of Security, each provided general these incidents and has identied the actions required to remedy the updates together with deep-dives during 2014.
The Group Director of issues.
In reviewing and sanctioning future bids, we will reinforce the HSSEIA supplemented his general updates to the Board with more rigour necessary in assessing the risk exposures, quality of project technical presentations to the Committee including detailed briengs management and resourcing capabilities behind them, and renew our on integrity assurance and our process safety framework.
focus on excellence in execution.
In response to the UK Codes guidance that the Board as a whole Notwithstanding these setbacks, the Committee believes that there should take responsibility for risk management, the Committee is has been real progress made in identifying and controlling risk during supported by the Executive Directors, all of whom make themselves the year and that we will see additional improvement during 2015 available at each meeting to answer any operational matters.
as systems and cultural initiatives continue to embed and mature In accordance with best practice, Rijnhard van Tets stepped down tounderpin the Companys longer term sustainability.
from the Committee following his appointment as Chairman in The Director of Legal and Commercial Affairs and Group Head August 2014. of Enterprise Risk led the deployment phase of our new Petrofac Looking ahead, we will continue to improve our risk governance Enterprise Risk Management System PERMS during 2014. arrangements in accordance with the recently published FRC Its purpose is to systematise our risk management process with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related aim of providing an integrated approach to the management of risk, Businessand Financial Reporting, which revises, integrates and increasing oversight and promoting increased cultural awareness replaces previous editions of the Turnbull Guidance and reects and accountability.
changes made to the UK Code.
The Key Risk Register KRR identies the principal risks facing the The Committee is pleased by the overall progress made this year but Group together with their mitigating factors.
The KRR is regularly in the light of events, remains vigilant.
We will concentrate our focus so reviewed by management, as well as the Committee to promote active that we discharge our primary responsibilities: to identify and manage engagement, informed debate and constructive challenge, and to keep the principal risks to the enterprise and its strategic execution and: under review the effectiveness of our decision-making processes.
to be assured that effective risk management systems are in place The KRR is supported by a number of key risk indicators KRIs which throughout the Group.
are continuously monitored to help the Committee with the oversight ofrisk trends in the light of our current risk appetite.
Stefano Cao Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 24 February 2015 Petrofac 92 Annual report and accounts 2014 Board Risk Committee report continued Review of the Groups risk management framework The diagram below sets out Petrofacs Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework.
It encompasses the policies, culture, organisation, behaviours, processes, systems and other aspects of the Company that, taken together facilitate its effective and efficient operation.
The framework is designed to underpin the Companys longer term sustainability.
Groups Risk Management Framework Infrastructure Risk integration Risk management process Company vision Strategic planning and strategy Medium term planning Company values Prospect phase Group policies Go No-go process Communicate and consult and standards Proposal phase Appetite and Design delegated authorities Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Procurement Asset integrity framework identication assessment treatment monitoring reporting Execution Code of Conduct Operation Risk management process Hand over Risk Review Committees Assurance Management Global insurance support processes programme Emergency preparedness Company values and culture Enterprise Risk Management system and other tools Leadership, communications and engagement The framework supports the Board to exercise its overall Key Risk Register responsibilities and to: The Key Risk Register KRR identies those risks that, given the Companys current position, could threaten its business model, future regulate the entry of appropriate opportunities and risks into performance or prospects, solvency, liquidity, reputation, or prevent the Group: us from delivering our strategic objectives.
The Board treats such risks develop our understanding of the most significant threats as principal risks.
The KRR is the means by which the Companys and opportunities: principal risks are reported to the Committee and the Board for their review.
It includes business, financial, hazard and operational risks, promote active management of risk exposures down to acceptable together with external factors over which the Group may have little or levels: and no direct control.
The KRR is updated on an on-going basis and looks assist the Group in its achievement of business plan objectives forward over a three year time horizon to identify the: and operational performance.
nature and extent of the risks facing the Company: The principal aspects of this framework are explained in the likelihood of the risks materialising and their potential impact on the following sections.
achievement of business plan objectives: Enterprise Risk Management System Companys ability to reduce or control the incidence or impact on the Petrofacs new ERM system was deployed during 2014 and it will business of risks that do materialise: continue to be embedded across the Group in 2015.
Its purpose is to aggregate enterprise risk prole and associated Key Risk Indicators : systematise our risk management process which itself is based upon and therefore the extent to which different categories of risk are the principles and guidelines of BS ISO 31000:2009, with the aim of regarded as acceptable for the Company to bear.
providing an integrated approach to risk and control and to standardise the means of assessing, reviewing and reporting on risk and to enhance visibility and accountability.
The system aggregates and records risks by type and by exposure under the same framework.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 93 Annual report and accounts 2014 The KRR is designed to provide the Committee with clarity around Assurance and reporting ownership, accountability and mitigation strategies, to promote active As well as regular reports from the Group Head of Enterprise engagement, informed debate and constructive challenge, and to Risk, further reports to the Board and Committee are provided by keep under review the effectiveness of its decision-making processes.
management and included deep-dives into the effectiveness of: Health & Safety processes: Asset Integrity processes: Compliance Risk appetite non-conformances: Security: and Information Technology: which The Groups risk appetite has developed organically over a number together with other sources of information, have provided a balanced of years based on historical risk taking characteristics and this has assessment of the principal risks and the effectiveness of the systems continued to develop during 2014 as we pursue our growth strategy of internal control.
Our appetite for risk is largely governed through the Delegated Any control failings or weaknesses are identied and discussed Authorities and Risk Review Committees RRCs which are embedded inthese reports for example, compliance issues or whistleblowing across the Group.
statistics, including the underlying reasons, the impact that they have As part of the review of our risk framework, the Committee continues had on the Company, and the actions being taken to rectify them.
to believe that it should not apply a single aggregate risk appetite for When reviewing these reports, the Committee has considered how the Group as a whole, preferring to see risk appetite managed through effectively risks have been identied: how they have been mitigated limits and parameters, which are continuously monitored in each and managed: whether actions are being taken promptly to remedy business service line and aggregated for review at Group level.
any failings or weaknesses: and whether the causes of the failing or weakness have indicated poor decision-taking or a need for more Risk appetite is articulated in a variety of ways appropriate to the extensive monitoring or a reassessment of process effectiveness.
category of risk being considered.
For example, at the highest level Where major performance issues or non-conformances are are our policy statements which describe our risk-based approach to concerned, the Company undertakes a lessons learned analysis.
each category: and our policy standards, which describe acceptable controls and limits, examples of which, can be found in the Sovereign Interface between the Board Risk Committee and and Financial Market Risk Policy, or our Asset Integrity Policy.
Audit Committee Some of the parameters which exercise control over risk Petrofac has established separate Audit and Board Risk Committees appetite include: and as such, there are some areas that span both Committees responsibilities such as internal control, thereby requiring effective Health & Safety monthly reviews of KPIs for Lost Time Injuries interfaces between the Committees.
Both Committees agreed in and HIPO incidents: January 2014 to strengthen the Companys internal control framework Asset Integrity monthly reviews of control KPIs associated with and have recently deployed the 2013 version of the COSO Framework.
all key assets across the Group: The key areas where both Committees have common responsibilities concentration risk tolerable exposure by: territory: client: contract are: risk management compliance, internal control, and assisting the type: revenue: Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control environment covering: market growth risk agreed bi-annually in strategy setting meetings, with trends reviewed monthly: mechanisms to support the achievement of strategic objectives: investment limits for capital expenditures, minimum rates of IRR reliability of financial reporting: or annual free cash-ow targets: appropriateness of the control environment: liquidity headroom agreed by the Board and specified in Sovereign effectiveness and efficiency of operations: and and Financial Market Risk Policy: compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
financial strength maintain an EBITDA Debt Ratio agreed with the Board: In monitoring the effectiveness of its systems of risk and internal control, the Committees have this year identied weaknesses in the people risks non-conformances with Code of Conduct, incident risk appraisal process in respect of the Laggan-Tormore and Greater reporting, and attrition rates: Stella Area FPF1 projects: dating back to their inceptions in 2010 11. off-strategy risks where the Company has a zero tolerance, This has culminated in the drawing together of a number of lessons for example, sanctioned territories.
learned from these incidents enabling the Committee to identify the actions necessary to remedy the issues.
Risk culture Whilst the Board has delegated the detailed work to these two As with all aspects of good governance, the effectiveness of risk Committees, it retains overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group management and internal control also depend on the individuals maintains effective internal control and risk management frameworks responsible for operating the systems that are put in place.
In order to and receives regular reports on the work of each Committee from ensure the appropriate culture is established, the Committee carried their respective chairmen.
In addition, the Board retains ultimate out a risk management maturity assessment in 2014.
Analysis from responsibility for the Group KRR.
the assessment was communicated to management to encourage and incentivise desired behaviours and to further increase capabilities.
Plans for 2015 will continue to develop the desired values behaviours and capabilities so that they become embedded at all levels.
Petrofac 94 Annual report and accounts 2014 Board Risk Committee report continued The Board retains ultimate responsibility Risk Governance Arrangements for setting the Groups risk appetite and Petrofacs overall system of risk governance relies on a number of committees and management reviewing the risks which the Board considers processes which bring together reports on the management of risk at various levels.
sufciently significant that they might prevent The risk governance process relies upon regular risk assessments and reviews of existing the delivery of strategy or threaten Petrofacs andnew opportunities, by considering the risk exposure and appetite of each business continued existence.
unit, service line, and function.
The diagram below sets out the risk governance structure The Board Risk Committee is constituted in operation, showing the interaction between the various risk review and management by the Board to assist it in discharging this committees.
Terms of reference are in place for each of the key committees.
The Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board on the current risk exposures and future risk strategy and, in doing so, is Risk framework responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the ERM framework, the Groups risk appetite and tolerance in Sets risk appetite.
pursuit of business objectives, and approval Approves Key ofthe Delegated Authorities.
Board Risk Register and The Committee also assists the Board with significant projects.
the denition and execution of an effective risk management strategy and has responsibility for oversight of the Companys compliance Provides assurance Provides assurance system of corporate standards, processes on framework on framework and procedures.
In addition, the Committee Board oversight of provides the Board with assurance, on an framework of internal Board Risk Audit controls and risk annual basis, that the design and operating Committee Committee management.
effectiveness of these systems remain t for purpose.
The Group Risk Committee GRC is a Key Risk Register management committee constituted as the Senior management given to Board Risk principal executive forum for the review of consider risks on Committee enterprise, project and investment risks, in significant projects and Group Risk investments for formal accordance with the Delegated Authorities Committee consideration by the approved by the Board.
Oversight of Key Risk Register.
The GRC reviews all material new business opportunities and projects including bid submissions, country entry, joint ventures, investments, acquisitions and disposals, and is responsible for making recommendations Divisional management Divisional as to the management and mitigation oversight and review Risk Review of risk exposure: and also recommends of projects.
proposals for approval by the Board or the relevant executive.
The GRC is responsible for the assurance of the ERM framework agreed by the Board, including the approval of Group standards Risk management is and the application of the Groups Delegated Business embedded within Authorities.
In addition, the GRC reviews the Service Line each business service line.
KRR prior to its submission to the Committee.
Assurance to Group Internal management Functions Audit and the Board.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 95 Annual report and accounts 2014 Divisional Risk Review Committee DRRC.
Each division has a Information technology IT security Risk Review Committee chaired by the responsible Chief Executive Following a global assessment of potential IT threats and external Chief Operating officer which provides peer review of proposed cyber-security threats in 2013, the Company decided to embark on projects and investments in accordance with the Delegated Authorities.
a programme to reinforce our IT resilience arrangements to respond Where required by the Delegated Authorities, it then prepares effectively to any far-reaching systems failures.
The causes of these appropriate materials for the GRC and ensures that no proposal is risks include threats to data and operations through externally presented without being reviewed and supported by the DRRC.
developed malware or internal threats: together with geo-political cyber activity designed to sabotage businesses or steal commercial data.
Each of our individual businesses Petrofacs IT Strategy is focused on our ability to mitigate both internal has its own business management system that incorporates risk and external cyber threats and our ability to respond effectively to a management policies and procedures and produces its own risk catastrophic system failure, and restore critical systems and data.
Each business service lines management team meets Recent controls include: new global data centres now online to host regularly and monitors these risks as a matter of course, notes risk critical applications : 24 7 monitoring of the global data centres and assessment changes and seeks to take appropriate mitigating action.
the Wide Area Network WAN : a new Information Security Policy and guidance in line with ISO 27001: a range of new security standards to Code of Conduct and whistleblowing support implementation of the policy: and development of a three year A compulsory e-learning module on the Companys Code of Conduct strategy and roadmap for Information RiskManagement IRM controls was launched during 2014 and, to date over 77% of employees and and processes.
third-party contractors have completed the training.
In early 2015, the module was launched in Arabic, Romanian, French and Spanish to Business Continuity Management ensure greater completion across the Group.
As a result of greater Petrofac has hub ofces in Sharjah, Aberdeen, Mumbai, Chennai, awareness of the Code of Conduct, increased reports of possible London, Woking and Kuala Lumpur, which each have business breaches have been received either directly or through Speak Up, the continuity management and disaster recovery plans in place.
All investigations are governed by result of recent growth in the region, Business Impact Analysis was a protocol which has been jointly developed by Group Compliance, updated in 2014 in Singapore, Jakarta, and Kuala Lumpur.
In addition, Legal, HR and Internal Audit and reported breaches are reviewed and the Sharjah ofces maintain a dedicated crisis management facility assessed to determine what further investigation is warranted and capable of responding and managing a crisis in any of its operations to ensure that appropriate action is taken.
The Committee receives on a 24 7 basis.
details of the issues reported, together with the action being taken.
Any alleged breaches relating to financial compliance are dealt with by Petrofac Training Services PTS in Aberdeen is accredited to ISO the Audit Committee.
Further details of our Code of Conduct, including 22301 for the business continuity structure of its Emergency Response our whistleblowing facility, are provided on page 65.
This formal, globally recognised accreditation demonstrates that PTS has the means and facilities to offer resilience Security and continuity in a dedicated onshore emergency response capability Petrofacs security department enhanced its intelligence capability to its customers in the event of an unforeseen incident.
during 2014 in light of the uid nature of the security environment across the Middle East and North Africa region, as detailed further Insurance Programme on page 52.
This helps provide assurance to the Committee that Given the scale and nature of the Groups activities, Petrofac continued the Group is kept informed of any changes in our core market place to develop its global insurance programme coverage during 2014 and that appropriate protective measures and controls are taken.
by building its relationship with the Groups insurance brokers and To reinforce the message of a safe and secure environment for all our advisors.
As examples of that work, we undertook a number of asset staff and assets, a global engagement programme was undertaken surveys to satisfy the insurers assessment of the risks and associated in 2014 to promote security awareness.
Other key Group Security policy terms: and worked with ECOM management to increase its controls include: professional indemnity coverage and limits.
compliance with Security Policy & Security Standards for operations Following a commitment to the Committee, a number of claims in high risk territories: scenario workshops were carried out in 2014 with each division, in conjunction with our insurers and loss adjusters.
The principal objective Security Incident Review Board investigations and feedback: being to provide assurance that the Groups insurance arrangements Emergency Response and Group Crisis plans in place on high risk remain t for purpose and that the insurance programme will respond projects and regions: as expected in the event of a loss.
Policy limits, deductibles and wording are reviewed each year at programme renewal to ensure that Group level Crisis Response capabilities and procedures: we have the optimum mix of policy coverage and competitive terms.
Group Security Forum reviews of all our operations: Looking forward to 2015, we anticipate greater participation of our captive insurance company across a broader range of policies.
Operational Security Status assessments in place in high risk areas: Business service lines record and update specic plans for entering high risk territories: and compliance with Security Planning Journey Management processes.
