Petrofac 70 Annual report and accounts 2014 Our leadership team 4 1 2 3 1.
Rob Jewkes Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer, Onshore Engineering Offshore Capital Projects Engineering &Consulting Integrated Energy Services & Construction Tenure Services Tenure Joined Petrofac in June 2012 Joined Petrofac in January 2004 Tenure Tenure Joined Petrofac in March 1997 Responsibility Joined Petrofac in February 2012 Responsibility As MD of our Offshore Capital Projects Joined Petrofac to build a EuropeResponsibility Responsibility business within ECOM, he is responsible based engineering services business Has held various positions since joining, As MD of Engineering & Consulting for turnkey delivery of offshore platforms, in Woking, UK, which now forms part including Executive Vice President, Services within ECOM his responsibilities oaters and pipelines in shallow of Petrofacs Engineering & Consulting Projects and Deputy Chief Operating include the effective management and and deep-water worldwide.
In 2009, he was officer of Petrofac International.
As MD execution of Petrofacs engineering extensive expertise in the offshore appointed MD of Developments within of Onshore Engineering & Construction service centres across the Middle East sector, having more than 30 years of the IES division, with responsibility for within ECOM, he is responsible for all our and North Africa, CIS, Asia-Pacic, industry experience.
leveraging our engineering and project onshore EPC projects worldwide, which Europe and the Americas, as well as our management capability through Risk are delivered predominantly under lump Previous experience subsidiary businesses KW Subsea, TNEI Service Contracts and Equity Upstream sum turnkey commercial models, and During his time as chief operating officer and Plant Asset Management.
In January 2014, Rob a workforce of over 5,000. of Saipem SpA, managed the offshore Previous experience assumed the role of Chief Operating business, which was the most profitable Previous experience Previously held the position of executive officer, IES, with full responsibility for of all Saipems business units.
He speaks Previously worked for Kvaerner and vice president within growth regions the IES business portfolio.
seven languages and is a graduate Jacobs in India and Oman.
He has covering the Middle East, Africa and engineer from Ecole Centrale fide Paris.
Previous experience more than 30 years experience in the CIS for AMEC, based in Abu Dhabi.
He has over 35 years experience in oil and gas industry and holds an MSc His key focus was the development the oil and gas industry.
Prior to joining in Chemical Engineering from the of engineering services and project Petrofac, he served as chief executive Indian Institute of Technology.
Prior to joining officer of Clough Engineering, the main AMEC, he held numerous roles working operating company of the Australian in the oileld services sector, including engineering group Clough Limited.
positions with KBR, Brown & Root and He holds a degree in Civil Engineering AOC International.
He has worked in from the University of Western Australia.
the North Sea, extensively in the Middle East, and in Asia-Pacic.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 71 Annual report and accounts 2014 6 8 5 7 5.
Mary Hitchon Managing Director, Group Director, Commercial Group Director of Group Director of Legal, Production Solutions Tenure Human Resources Secretarial and Compliance Joined Petrofac in May 2004 Tenure Tenure Services Joined Petrofac in July 2006 Joined Petrofac in February 2014 Responsibility Tenure He oversees specic key complex Responsibility Responsibility Joined Petrofac in October 2005 projects, managing the financial and He is responsible for developing and As Group HR Director, she has overall Responsibility risk implications and reviewing the managing the Groups portfolio of responsibility for advising on all people Joining Petrofac shortly after IPO, achievements of commercial goals.
Production Enhancement Contracts aspects of the business.
This includes she had responsibility for the Groups He also oversees client relationships, including four projects in Mexico, creating the people strategy to support governance and listing rule compliance aiming to ensure compliance with, and and the Ticleni eld in Romania.
the Company in achieving its strategic framework.
Over the last ten years successful delivery of, profitable projects.
ambitions, focusing on succession Previous experience she has built a company secretarial He participates in the Groups risk review planning, talent management, leadership Prior to joining Petrofac, he spent more department and developed processes process and advises on corporate development, key hires, creating a than 20 years with ConocoPhillips in and procedures commensurate with matters in addition to significant performance culture, compensation and various leadership and management a listed entity.
She was appointed as commercial issues.
roles throughout the upstream business Group Director of Legal, Secretarial She partners with the business Previous experience worldwide, having previously held nonand Compliance Services in January leaders to build the strengths and Until December 2014, he held overall executive roles in the DTI and Cabinet 2015 and now has responsibility for capabilities we need to meet the ever responsibility for advising on the legal Ofce.
He has an MA in Engineering all key aspects of legal, regulatory changing demands of our markets and commercial aspects of the Groups from Cambridge University and an MSc and governance compliance across and environments.
He played a significant role in Petroleum Engineering from Imperial the Group.
in Petrofacs successful admission to College, London.
Previous experience Previous experience listing on the London Stock Exchange Has more than 25 years experience in A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered in 2005 and in developing the Groups HR, and has held a number of senior Secretaries with more than 20 years governance, compliance and risk roles, most recently with Arup, the experience in a UK listed environment.
Prior to joining Petrofac, international consulting and engineering Previously worked at TBI plc, the AXA spent some 15 years in corporate group, and Hewlett Packard.
finance which followed a career in the insurance brokerage industry.
He is qualied as a solicitor and graduate of Oxford University.
