Directors Governance Report On 9 October 2013, Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed Introduction as a Non-executive Director considered to be independent Responsibility for corporate governance lies with the by the Board.
Hilary is a leading international expert in Board, which is committed to maintaining high standards gambling law and has over 20 years experience advising of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable to companies on gambling-related matters and was, at the time shareholders.
The report which follows explains our most of her appointment, a partner in the firm of DLA Piper LLP important governance processes and how they support the the Firm.
She stepped down from that role in May 2014 Groups business.
In particular, we have applied the principles and has since been engaged as a consultant to the Firm.
of good governance advocated by the UK Corporate The Firm has provided, and continues to provide, regulatory Governance Code the Code.
The Code applied to Playtech and legal advice to the Company from time to time, however, throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2014. given the overall size of the Firm and the relatively small A copy of the code is available at www.
uk Our-Work scale of fees received, this relationship is not considered Codes-Standards Corporate-governance UK-Corporateto impact on her independence.
In addition, in order to Governance-Code.
reinforce her independence, it has been agreed that since her appointment, Hilary would not be involved in the provision of advice by the Firm to the Group, her remuneration from the Compliance statement Firm would not be linked, directly or indirectly, to the receipt of We continued to make improvements during the year both fees from the Group, and that any potential residual conflicts to our Board structure and our governance procedures and will be managed carefully.
I am delighted to be able to report that it is the view of the Board that the Company has been fully compliant with the As detailed in Note 26 to the financial statements, Hilarys principles of the Code during 2014 save in relation to C. 3.1 husband, Jean-Pierre Houareau, was engaged during 2014 ofthe Code.
by the Group as a consultant and also owns a company which is a small supplier to the Group.
Mr Houareau has As regards C. 3.1 of the Code, following the Company worked in the online gaming industry for non-related qualifying for inclusion in the FTSE 350 the Board concluded companies, such as PKR, for 10 years and has been that the composition of the Audit Committee comprising the retained to assist in connection with some of the Groups three Non-executive Directors including the Chairman was consumer facing activities in the UK and other regulated sufficiently robust for the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities markets.
Hilary was not involved in the decision to retain without the need for the appointment of a further NonMrHouareau and did not participate in discussions relating executive Director.
The Board will review the position during tofee arrangements.
The Board consider that Hilary continues to be independent We noted in the 2013 Annual Report that certain historic for the purposes of the Code.
option awards made to Executive Directors all of which were made while the Company was on the Alternative The Companys auditor, BDO LLP, is required to review Investment Market did not contain any performance-related whether the above statement reflects the Companys vesting conditions.
The remaining options were exercised compliance with the Code by the Listing Rules of the UK in 2014 and, in accordance with the current policy of the Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such Remuneration Committee as stated in its reports on pages compliance.
No such negative report has been made.
46 to 59, future awards to Directors will be subject to The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for challenging performance criteria.
good governance and the statement set out below describes how the Group applies the principles identified in the Code.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Governance v38.
indd 35 16 04 2015 11:32 Directors Governance Report continued The Non-executive Directors are all considered by the The Board Board to be independent of management and free of any Composition relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise As at 31 December 2014, the Board comprised the Nonof their independent judgement, as explained above.
executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board Financial Officer, a Non-executive Deputy Chairman and an and its Committees and his appointment and removal is a independent Non-executive Director.
The list of Directors matter for the Board as a whole.
Following the departure holding office during the year to 31 December 2014 and their of Paul Wright, the former Company Secretary, the Board responsibilities are set out on pages 32 and 33. appointed Brian Moore as his successor in January 2015.
All of the Directors served throughout the financial year.
The Company Secretary is a member of the Groups management team and all the Directors have access to hisadvice and services.
Directors name Title Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman Mor Weizer Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer Ron Hoffman Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer Hilary Stewart-Jones Non-executive Deputy Chairman Andrew Thomas Non-executive, Senior Independent Director Board operation The roles of the Chairman Alan Jackson and the Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer are separated, clearly defined and their respective responsibilities are summarised below.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer executive leadership of the Companys business on a overall effectiveness of the running of the Board: day-to-day basis: ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full part in developing the overall commercial objectives of the Group the development and determination of the Groups and proposing and developing the strategy of the Group in strategic objectives: conjunction with the Board as a whole: keeping the other Directors informed of shareholders responsibility, together with his senior management attitudes towards the Company: team, for the execution of the Groups strategy and safeguarding the good reputation of the Company and implementation of Board decisions: representing it both externally and internally: recommendations on senior appointments and acting as the guardian of the Boards decision-making development of the management team: and processes: and ensuring that the affairs of the Group are conducted promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and corporate governance.
36 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 36 16 04 2015 11:32 Matters considered by the Board in 2014 Month Material matters considered January Review of operational roadmap for 2014 Approval of budget for 2014 Approval of the acquisition of Psiclone Games Limited, a retail games developer February Update in relation to status of related party arrangements Review of the 2013 financial results and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013 Consideration of a special dividend and a final dividend Approval of notice of AGM and resolutions to be put to the meeting Approval of establishment of Employee Benefit Trust April Detailed evaluation of M&A opportunities and use of cash resources Consideration of plans to implement operational efficiencies and cost savings Consideration of forthcoming regulatory changes in key markets Review of updated risk register May Consideration of implications of unrest in Kiev on the Groups operations Update into R&D and new developments such as the Groups new business intelligence products Consideration of the potential impact of the proposed POC tax on the Group Preparation for the AGM June Evaluation of potential strategic agreements including in Mexico and Italy Review of the poker division and its strategic plans Acquisition of a software provider that developed a sports betting solution for developing markets August Review of interim results Consideration of interim dividend Evaluation of proposed UK licensing regime and related application processes Approval of investment in, and related software arrangements with, BGO Limited Approval of acquisition of Aristocrat Lotteries October Review of human resources, recruitment and employee incentivisation plans Detailed evaluation of M&A opportunities and use of cash resources Consideration of expansion into new geographical markets November Approval of announcement in relation to share price movement Approval of the placement of 297 million unsecured convertible bonds Appointment of Hilary Stewart-Jones as Deputy Chairman Approval of amendments to relationship agreement with Brickington Trading Limited as required by virtue of changes to the Listing Rules Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Governance v38.
indd 37 16 04 2015 11:32 Directors Governance Report continued other key matters considered by the Board during 2014 are How the Board functions set out in the table page 37.
In accordance with the Code, the Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Board meetings are generally held at the registered office of The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership for the the Company on the Isle of Man, though during the year a Company within a framework of prudent and effective meeting was held in Gibraltar, giving the Board an opportunity controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
of reviewing the Groups poker operations, and a meeting The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, and ensures was held in Berlin in conjunction with a major European that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to gambling conference that gave the Non-executive Directors meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
an opportunity to broaden their knowledge of the European gambling industry.
The Board meets regularly and frequently, with eight meetings scheduled and held in 2014.
During the year, it was also Directors are provided with comprehensive background necessary for the Board to hold an unscheduled Board information for each meeting and all Directors were meeting by telephone in accordance with the articles of available to participate fully and on an informed basis in association, in connection with the approval of the placing of Board decisions.
In addition, certain members of the senior a 297 million unsecured convertible bond.
management team including the Chief Operating Officer, the General Counsel, the Head of Regulatory and Compliance During the year, the Chairman met the other Non-executive and the Head of Investor Relations are invited to attend the Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors to rewhole or parts of the meetings to deliver their reports on confirm and take account of their views.
Any specific actions arising during meetings Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to are agreed by the Board and a comprehensive follow-up the Company.
In addition to receiving reports from the Boards Committees, Details of the attendance of the Directors at meetings of the reviewing the financial and operational performance of the Board and its Committees are set out in the table below.
Group and receiving regular reports on M&A, legal, regulatory and investor relations matters at the Board meetings, the Number of meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk Alan Jackson 9 of 9 4 of 4 3 of 3 4 of 4 Mor Weizer 9 of 9 Ron Hoffman 9 of 9 Hilary Stewart-Jones 8 of 9 4 of 4 3 of 3 4 of 4 Andrew Thomas 9 of 9 4 of 4 3 of 3 4 of 4 the extension of the Groups activities into any new Responsibility and delegation business or geographic areas, or to cease any The Chairman is primarily responsible for the efficient material operations: functioning of the Board.
He ensures that all Directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business changes in the Companys capital structure or and corporate issues prior to meetings.
The Chief management and control structure: Executive Officers responsibilities focus on co-ordinating approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary the Groups business and implementing Group strategy.
and half-yearly financial statements: interim management Regular interaction between the Chairman and Chief statements and announcements regarding dividends: Executive Officer between meetings ensures the Board approval of treasury policies, including foreign currency remains fully informed of developments in the business at all times.
exposures and use of financial derivatives: ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal There remains in place a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board consideration and approval, control and risk management: which includes the matters set out below: entering into agreements that are not in the ordinary approval of the Groups long-term objectives and course of business or material strategically or by reason of their size: commercial strategy: approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure changes to the size, composition or structure of the Board and its Committees: and budgets and any changes to them: major investments or capital projects: corporate governance matters.
38 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 38 16 04 2015 11:32 In addition, the Board has adopted a formal delegation of Risk & Compliance Committee authorities memorandum which sets out levels of authority Under the Code, the Board is responsible for determining the foremployees in the business.
nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to a achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board should maintain number of Committees of the Board to assist in the discharge a sound system of risk management and internal control of its duties.
The principal Committees currently are the systems Main Principle C. 2.
Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk The Risk & Compliance Committee is chaired by Hilary &Compliance Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The other members of the Committee The minutes of each of these Committees are circulated to are Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman and Andrew and reviewed by their members.
The Company Secretary Thomas Non-executive Director.
David McLeish General is secretary to each of these Committees.
The Terms of Counsel, Ian Ince Head of Regulatory and Compliance and Reference for each of the Committees are available to view Robert Penfold Head of Internal Audit attend the Committee.
on the Companys website www.
The Company Secretary, Brian Moore, is secretary to the Committee.
Audit Committee In addition, PwC LLP, in their capacity as providers of internal audit services, and members of the Groups senior The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the management including the Chief Information Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the internal Officer may be invited to attend meetings to present matters or for the Committee to have the benefit of their experience.
and external audit function, and the management of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, compliance activities.
the Committee include: The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 43 to 45 review managements identification and mitigation of key and details the Audit Committees membership, activities risks to the achievement of the Companys objectives: during the year, significant issues that it considered in relation monitor incidents and remedial activity: to the financial statements and how those issues were addressed.
The report also contains an explanation of how agree and monitor the risk assessment programme the Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external including, in particular, changes to the regulation of online audit process and the approach taken in relation to the gambling and the assessment of licensees suitability: appointment or reappointment of the auditors.
agree on behalf of the Board and continually review a risk management strategy and relevant policies for the Group, Remuneration Committee including the employee code of conduct, anti-bribery policy, anti-money laundering policy and wider social The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making responsibility issues: recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management.
satisfy itself and report to the Board that the structures, processes and responsibilities for identifying and managing The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 46 risks are adequate: and to 59 and contains details the Remuneration Committees membership, activities during the year and the policy on monitor and procure ongoing compliance with the remuneration.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee conditions of the regulatory licenses held by the Group.
attends the annual general meeting to respond to any questions that shareholders might raise on the Remuneration Committees activities.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Governance v38.
indd 39 16 04 2015 11:32 Directors Governance Report continued The Risk & Compliance Committee met formally four times Nominations Committee during the year and in addition held a number of conference The Board is required by the Code to establish a Nominations calls throughout the year, and a summary of the key matters Committee which should lead the process for Board considered by the Committee during 2014 are set out below: appointments and make recommendations for appointments monitor the regulatory position in a number of jurisdictions to the Board.
A majority of members of the Nominations Committee should be independent Non-executive Directors.
including those which are of relative importance to the Group financially and those where changes may represent The Nomination Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, a risk or opportunity for the Group: knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in consider the costs and regulatory requirements discharging its responsibilities.
for the Group to seek relevant licenses in newly regulating markets: The Nominations Committee comprises Alan Jackson Chairman, Andrew Thomas and Hilary Stewart-Jones.
applications by or on behalf of the Group for licences in existing or newly regulated markets: The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees and monitor developments in relation to changes in the makes recommendations with regard to any changes regulatory regime in the United Kingdom and receiving considered necessary in the identification and nomination reports in relation to the likely impact on the Group and the of new Directors, the reappointment of existing Directors need for entities within the Group to apply for licences: and appointment of members to the Boards Committees.
consider the overall effectiveness of the compliance It also assesses the roles of the existing Directors in office strategy and the regulatory risks to the Groups operations to ensure that there continues to be a balanced Board and revenues: in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Nominations Committee reviews the senior leadership receive and consider reports on discussions with, and the needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in results of audits by, regulators: the marketplace.
The Nominations Committee also advises monitoring compliance with regulatory licences held in the Board on succession planning for Executive Director all jurisdictions and adapting procedures, products and appointments although the Board itself is responsible for technology as appropriate: succession generally.
review reports by PwC as external advisers on risk The Nominations Committee has not set itself any formal management: and targets for diversity, including gender, and believes that appointments should be based on merit, compared against consideration of the risks identified from the Groups risk objective criteria, with the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board register and of the effectiveness of actions taken to mitigate has the right skills, knowledge and experience that enable it such risks.
to discharge its responsibilities properly.
The Committee has been kept informed of any changes to The Nominations Committee meets on an as-needed basis.
the regulatory position in any significant jurisdiction where the No meetings were held in 2014.
Group, through its licensees, may be exposed and updated on progress in relation to agreed action items on a regular basis.
The Committee can also convene meetings on a more Disclosure Committee frequent basis or as when matters arise, if it is determined The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy and timeliness that enhanced monitoring of a specific risk is warranted.
of public announcements of the Company and monitors A table setting out the principal significant risks identified by the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and the Group including with the oversight and input of the Risk & Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Compliance Committee and the mitigating actions that have Authority.
Meetings are held as required.
At the date of been undertaken by the Group in relation to these is set out this Report the Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew on pages 25 to 27 of this document.
Thomas Chairman of the Audit Committee, Ron Hoffman Chief Financial Officer, David McLeish General Counsel, Brian Moore Company Secretary and Adam Kay Head of Investor Relations.
40 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 40 16 04 2015 11:32 The Board considers that it is of a size and has the balance Management Committee of skills, knowledge, experience and independence that The senior management committee is the key management is appropriate for the Groups current business.
While not committee for the Group.
The standing members of the having a specific policy regarding the constitution and Committee are Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer, Ron balance of the Board, potential new Directors are considered Hoffman Chief Financial Officer, Shay Segev Chief Operating on their own merits with regard to their skills, knowledge, Officer, Uri Levy VP Business Development, Shimon Akad experience and credentials.
CEO Israel, David McLeish General Counsel, Ian Ince Head of Regulatory and Compliance and Brian Moore Company The Non-executive Directors continue to contribute their Secretary.
Other members of senior management are invited considerable collective experience and wide-ranging skills to to the Committee as and when required.
The Committee the Board and provide a valuable independent perspective: considers and discusses plans and recommendations where necessary constructively challenging proposals, policy coming from the operational side of the business and from and practices of executive management.
In addition, they the various product verticals, in the light the Groups strategy help formulate the Groups strategy.
and capital expenditure and investment budgets, including the implications of those plans in areas such as resources, Evaluation budget, legal and compliance.
The Committee either approves the plans or as necessary refers the proposal for The Board is committed to an ongoing evaluation process formal Board review and approval in accordance with the of itself and its Committees to assess their performance Companys formal matters reserved for the Board.
and identify areas in which their effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced.
Alan Jackson, in discussion with the Senior Non-executive Director, undertook a review of Board tenure the performance of individual Directors.
Andrew Thomas as In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Senior Non-executive Director considered the performance every new Director appointed in the year is required to stand of Mr Jackson taking into account the views of the Executive for re-election by shareholders at the annual general meeting Directors.
There were no material areas of concern AGM next following their appointment.
Also, under the highlighted and the main outcome of the evaluation this articles of association, at each AGM one-third of the Directors year was to shape and define the Boards objectives for the excluding any Director who has been appointed by the coming year, continuing the focus on Group strategy and Board since the previous AGM or, if their number is not an ensuring the structures, capabilities and reporting are in place integral multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third to achieve the Boards goals.
but not exceeding one-third shall retire from office but so A review of the Boards effectiveness was conducted in that if there are fewer than three Directors who are subject late 2014.
The review was facilitated by Independent Audit toretirement by rotation under the articles one shall retire.
Limited, using their Thinking Board online assessment Notwithstanding the provisions of the articles of association, service.
Their facilitation helped ensure that the review was the Board has decided to comply with the Code rigorous and covered the important influences on the Boards requirements that Directors of companies in the FTSE350 effectiveness.
As independent advisers, they discussed Index submit themselves for re-election annually.
Therefore, all the focus and coverage of the Board and Committee Directors are seeking their reappointment at this years AGM.
questionnaires, administered the questionnaires on a confidential basis, analysed the results independently from The Board has collectively agreed that the Directors proposed the Board and management, and presented the findings and for re-election at this years AGM have made significant their suggestions in a paper which was discussed with the contributions to the business since their last re-election and Chairman and provided to all Directors.
The Board is in the each has a key role to play in the formulation of the Groups process of considering the report with a view to adopting and future strategy.
implementing a plan to further develop the effectiveness of In certain circumstances, Directors are entitled to seek the Board during 2015. independent professional advice under an agreed Board Newly appointed Directors can expect a detailed and procedure, which would then be organised by the Company systematic induction on joining the Board.
They meet various Secretary, and in this regard the Company would meet their members of senior management and familiarise themselves reasonable legal expenses.
with all core aspects of the Groups operations.
On request, meetings can be arranged with major shareholders.
Members of senior management are invited to attend Board Balance of the Board meetings from time to time to present on specific areas of the The Board comprises individuals with wide business Groups business.
experience gained in various industry sectors related to the Groups current business and it is the intention of the Board to ensure that the balance of the Directors reflects the changing needs of the business.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Governance v38.
indd 41 16 04 2015 11:32 Directors Governance Report continued Separately, Mr Sagi entered into an agreement with the Relationship with shareholders Company in 2012 pursuant to which he will, as and when Primary responsibility for effective communication with requested to do so by the Board, provide advisory services shareholders lies with the Chairman, but all the Companys to the Company for a nominal fee of 1 per annum until Directors are available to meet with shareholders throughout either Mr Sagi ceases to be interested whether legally or the year.
Alan Jackson, Mor Weizer and Ron Hoffman met beneficially in any Ordinary Shares or either party terminates with a number of shareholders to discuss the Companys the agreement following its fifth anniversary, whichever business strategy throughout the year.
The Executive is the earlier.
During the year, the Company has sought Directors prepare a general presentation for analysts advisory services on occasion in relation to certain significant and institutional shareholders following the interim and strategic matters.
Details of these presentations together with the Groups financial statements and other Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Companys announcements can be found on the investor relations AGM, at which the Chairman will present the key highlights of section of the Companys website.
Further presentations the Groups performance.
The Board will be available at the are also prepared following significant acquisitions and AGM to answer questions from shareholders.
whenever the Board considers it beneficial to shareholders to do so.
Regular meetings with shareholders and potential Investor relations and communications shareholders are also held by the Head of Investor Relations, and in conjunction with either the Chief Executive Officer The Company has well-established Investor Relations or the Chief Financial Officer.
The Company also held an IR processes, which support a structured programme investor day during 2014 at which shareholders and sector of communications with existing and potential investors analysts were invited to hear about certain of the Groups and analysts.
Executive Directors and members of the IR new products.
team participated in a number of investor events, attending industry conferences and regularly meet or are in contact The Company endeavours to answer all queries raised with existing and potential institutional investors from around byshareholders promptly.
the world, ensuring that Group performance and strategy The Companys largest shareholder is Brickington Trading is effectively communicated, within regulatory constraints.
Brickington is a wholly owned Other representatives of the Board and senior management subsidiary of a trust, one of the ultimate beneficiaries of which meet with investors from time to time.
The Head of IR is Teddy Sagi, one of the Groups founders.
In connection provides regular reports to the Board on related matters, with the Companys premium listing on the main market of issues of concern to investors, and analysts views the London Stock Exchange, the Company and Brickington and opinions.
entered into a relationship agreement, pursuant to which Whenever required, the Executive Directors and the Chairman Brickington has agreed that: i it will vote its shares in such communicate with Canaccord Genuity to confirm shareholder a manner so as to procure that each member of the Group sentiment and to consult on governance issues.
is capable of carrying on its business independently of Brickington and its associates: and ii it will not exercise During 2014, 44 regulatory announcements were released any of the voting rights attaching to its shares in such a informing the market of acquisitions, corporate actions, manner so as to procure any amendment to the articles of important customer contracts, financial results, the results association which would be inconsistent with, undermine or of annual general meetings and Board changes.
Copies of breach any of the provisions of the relationship agreement.
these announcements, together with other IR information Brickington also agreed that all transactions and relationships and documents, are available on the Group website between it or any of its associates and the Company will be www.
on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis.
On 14 November 2014, the Company and Brickington Summary entered into a variation to the relationship agreement in order In presenting this report, and having monitored, reviewed or to ensure compliance with amendments made to the Listing approved all shareholder communications in 2014 and since Rules during 2014.
The principal change to the relationship the end of the financial year, the Board is confident that it has agreement was to provide that Brickington would not take presented a balanced and understandable assessment of the steps to prevent the articles of association from permitting the Companys position and prospects.
election or re-election of independent Directors.
The Board believes that the provisions of the relationship agreement provides reassurance that Brickington will not seek to exercise its shareholding capriciously and re-enforces the independence of the Company.
Alan Jackson Chairman 26 February 2015 42 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
