Audit Committee Report The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, Composition the Committee included: The Audit Committee comprises three independent Nonexecutive Directors and is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who is monitoring and challenging the effectiveness of internal a qualified Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute control and associated functions: of Taxation.
Therefore Andrew has recent relevant financial approving and amending Group accounting policies: experience, in compliance with the Code provision C3.1, and reviewing and ensuring the integrity of interim and was appointed to chair the Committee on his appointment to the Board in June 2012.
The other members of the Audit annual financial statements, in particular the actions and judgements of management in relation thereto before Committee are Alan Jackson and Hilary Stewart-Jones, both Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is authorised to submission to the Board: obtain independent advice if considered necessary.
monitoring the implementation of the Companys Code of The Chief Financial Officer attended all meetings of the Business Ethics Code of Ethics and compliance with their provisions: Audit Committee by invitation, and the Head of Finance was invited to attend the meetings of the Committee that reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees considered the audited accounts and the interim financial to raise concerns, anonymously or in confidence and statements, as was the external auditor, BDO LLP BDO.
without fear of retaliation, about possible wrongdoing in The members of the Committee were also able to meet the financial reporting or other matters arising under the Code auditors without any Executive Directors being present in of Ethics: order to receive feedback from them on matters such as reviewing promptly all reports on the Company from the the quality of interaction with management.
The Chairman internal auditors and reviewing and assess the annual of the Committee also met with BDO separately on several internal audit plan: occasions to discuss matters involving the audit process.
monitoring the external auditors independence and During the year, the Chairman of the Audit Committee objectivity, including the effectiveness of the audit services: met, individually and in private, with members of the management team in order to understand more fully the monitoring and approving the scope and costs of audit: context and challenges of Playtechs business operations and and thereby ensure the Committees time was used most ensuring audit independence and pre-approving any effectively.
He also visited various operations of the business.
significant non-audit services to be provided by the auditor.
The activities of the Committee members during the last year have enabled it to gain a good understanding of the culture of the organisation, the risks and challenges faced Audit Committees activities and the adequacy and timeliness of the action being taken In 2014, the Audit Committee met formally four times.
Matters that were considered by the Committee during the year included: Responsibilities valuation of available-for-sale investments held by The Audit Committees primary function is to assist the Board the Group: in fulfilling its financial oversight responsibilities.
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent management of the Groups cash balances in particular arrangements for considering how it should apply required the effectiveness of the Groups treasury management financial reporting standards and internal control principles and hedging practices and stability of the Groups and also for maintaining appropriate relationships with the banking relationships: Companys external auditors, BDO.
The Committees terms adoption of an updated risk register for the Group: of reference can be viewed on the Companys website www.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management: In particular, the Code calls for the description of the work of the Audit Committee to include the significant issues entry into related party transactions and considered in relation to the financial statements and how structured agreements: they were addressed, how the Committee assessed the updates on people risk, and cybersecurity risks: and effectiveness of the external audit process, the approach of the Committee to appointing the auditors and how objectivity results of internal audit reviews, management action and independence are safeguarded relative to plans to resolve any issues arising and the tracking of non-audit services.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Governance v38.
indd 43 16 04 2015 11:32 Audit Committee Report continued Its work also included reviewing the final and interim financial Legal and regulatory statements and matters raised by management and BDO.
Given the developing nature of the gambling sector in many After discussion with both management and the external countries across the world, there is a risk that potential auditor, the Committee determined that the key risks of material legal or regulatory matters are not disclosed or misstatement of the Groups financial statements, related provided for in the financial statements and therefore to the following areas which are described in the relevant the Committee considered with the Groups compliance accounting policies and detailed in the Notes to the financial and legal departments whether there were any known statements on pages 78 to 109. instances of material breaches in regulatory and licence compliance that needed to be disclosed or other claims that Revenue Recognition required provisions to be made in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in In particular, the Committee considered forthcoming changes respect of revenue recognition, in particular to assess the in the regulatory environment in a number of jurisdictions recognition of revenue from turnkey and other contracts in which the Groups licensees operate, in particular in where the Group is to be remunerated other than by way the United Kingdom where a new licensing regime was of a simple revenue share arrangement, and undertook a introduced during 2014 that required the Group to obtain review of key contracts.
Following this review, the Committee regulatory licences.
The Committee considered the control concluded that the timing of revenue recognition continues systems adopted to identify potential regulatory issues and to be in line with IFRS requirements.
BDO performed detailed the compliance control systems operating in the Group.
audit procedures on revenue recognition and reported their Discussions were held with both the Head of Regulatory and findings to the Committee, which was satisfied as a result of Compliance and the General Counsel.
Following this review, the review process that the approach taken by the Group in the Committee were satisfied that adequate provisions the financial statements was appropriate.
and disclosures were being made for any potential contingent liabilities.
Capitalisation of software development costs The Audit Committee considered the Groups policy Related party transactions regarding the capitalisation of its software development costs The Audit Committee examined the practices and taking into account IFRS requirements.
The Committee procedures adopted by the Group to ensure that related concluded that the policy was compliant and BDO, as part of party transactions are conducted on arms length terms.
its audit procedure, undertook an exercise to verify that such The Committee considered the processes followed in relation policy was being applied correctly.
to such transactions that were entered into during 2014 and concluded that the process had worked effectively and that Goodwill and intangible assets all related party transactions had been properly conducted During the year, the Audit Committee also considered the on an arms length basis and appropriately disclosed in the judgements made in relation to the valuation methodology financial statements.
BDO undertook a review of this area as adopted by management to support the carrying value of part of its audit work.
goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether there was a risk of material misstatement in the carrying Tax value of these assets and whether an impairment should be The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the overall recognised.
The Committee considered the assumptions, tax management and strategy of the Group during the estimates and judgements made by management to year in light of the external and internal advice sought by support the models that underpin the valuation of intangible management and reviewed how the Group considers tax assets in the balance sheet.
Business plans and cash-flow as part of its overall business planning.
Consideration was forecasts prepared by management supporting the future given to transfer pricing studies carried out on behalf of performance expectations used in the calculation were the Group in the period, and assessed, in respect of earlier reviewed.
The Committee received a report on the outcome studies, whether there had been any change in the basis of of the impairment review performed by management.
operations in the relevant territories.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external auditor, who reported their findings to the Financial statements Committee.
The Committee satisfied itself that no material impairments were required to the carrying value of goodwill The Groups financial statements are reviewed by the Audit orother intangible assets.
Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
The Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and professionalism.
Having undertaken the processes described above, the Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
44 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
indd 44 16 04 2015 11:32 On the basis of the above, the Committee consider that obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that they the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, are independent: and balanced, understandable and provide the information a review of fees paid to the auditors in respect of audit and necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups non-audit services.
performance, business model and strategy.
During the year the auditors undertook certain specific pieces of non-audit work including work in relation to tax matters Internal control and the evaluation of potential acquisition targets.
BDO were selected to undertake these tasks due to their familiarity with In 2013, the Company established a co-sourced internal audit function responsible for reviewing, reporting and the gambling industry and, as regards tax, their alignment with work carried out under the audit.
In order to maintain monitoring improvements in internal control performance across its operations, involving  LLP BDOs independence and objectivity, BDO undertook its standard independence procedures in relation to those PwC and the Groups Chief Information Officer.
Further details of the non-audit fees are During the year, PwC were engaged to perform a review of included in Note 6 to the financial statements on page 89. a number of areas of the Group including disaster recovery arrangements and processes and procedures in the legal The Audit Committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
In doing so, and compliance departments.
PwC were also asked to assist in the production of an updated risk register.
The output of the Audit Committee will consider a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The Audit these work-streams was considered by the Audit Committee along with the members of the Risk & Compliance Committee will continue to comply with the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market for Committee, and in the light of recommendations made by the PwC, certain actions were agreed in mitigation of identified FTSE 350 companies, which came into effect from 1 October 2014.
The Audit Committee expects a formal tender process risks and to enhance existing processes.
Further work being undertaken focuses on key risk processes and is intended to to be held no later than 2018. provide an ongoing independent assurance that these key processes remain effective.
In recognition of the increasing levels of complexity in relation to internal controls, the Group recently appointed, Robert Penfold, a risk professional with extensive sector experience, Andrew Thomas as the Groups Head of Internal Audit.
Robert will report to the Chairman of Audit Committee Audit Committee on a regular basis and engage PwC and other specialists where appropriate.
26 February 2015 The Board confirms that any necessary action will be taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from any internal audit reviews.
This system of internal controls and audit is designed to ensure local legal and regulatory compliance and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Auditors independence The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors independence each year, which includes: a review of non-audit related services provided by BDO and related fees: a discussion with the auditor of a written report detailing all relationships with the Group and any other parties which could affect independence or the perception of independence: a review of the auditors own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the periodic rotation of the audit partner: Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Governance v38.
