Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the report sets out the Companys Directors remuneration policy which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, shall take binding effect from the date of that meeting.
The policy for the executive directors has been determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Executive directors The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the executive directors.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Core element of fixed Usually reviewed annually.
Although there is no overall maximum, Not applicable.
remuneration, reflecting the salary increases are normally reviewed size and scope of the role.
Salary levels are determined by the Remuneration in the context of the salary increases Committee taking into account a range of factors across the wider Group.
Purpose is to recruit and including: retain directors of the calibre The Remuneration Committee may required for the Company.
role, experience and individual performance: award salary increases above this level pay for other employees in the Group: to take account of individual prevailing market conditions: and circumstances such as: external benchmarks for similar roles at comparable companies.
increase in scope and responsibility: increase to reflect the executive directors development and performance in the role: or alignment to market level.
Benefits Ensures the overall package Executive directors receive benefits in line with market Whilst the Remuneration Committee Not applicable.
practice, including a car allowance or provision of a has not set an absolute maximum on company car, a biennial health check, life assurance and the levels of benefits executive Purpose is to recruit and the ability to buy or sell holidays under the directors receive, the value of the retain directors of the calibre Companys flexible benefits plan.
benefit is at a level which the required for the Company.
Remuneration Committee considers Other benefits may be provided based on individual appropriate against the market and circumstances.
These may include, for example, provides sufficient level of benefit relocation and travel allowances.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Rewards performance Awards based on annual performance against key Maximum bonus opportunity is 100% Targets are set annually reflecting the against annual targets which financial and or strategic targets and or the delivery of of base salary.
Companys strategy and aligned with support the strategic personal objectives.
key financial, strategic and or individual direction of the Group.
Pay-out levels are determined by the Remuneration Committee after the year end based on performance Targets, whilst stretching, do not against those targets.
encourage inappropriate business risks to be taken.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the bonus pay-out if, in its judgement, any formulaic At least 80% of the bonus is assessed output does not produce a fair result for either the against key financial performance executive director or the Company, taking into account metrics of the business and the overall business performance.
balance may be based on non-financial strategic measures and or individual performance.
Financial metrics There is no minimum payment at threshold performance, 50% of the maximum potential for this element of the bonus will be paid out for on-target performance and all of the maximum potential will be paid out for maximum performance.
Non-financial or individual metrics Vesting of the non-financial or individual metrics will apply on a scale between 0% and 100% based on the Remuneration Committees assessment of the extent to which a non-financial or individual performance metric has been met.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long Term Incentivises executive The Remuneration Committee intends to make long term The normal maximum award is 125% The vesting of awards is subject to the Incentive Plan directors over the longer term incentive awards under the new 2014 LTIP which will be of annual base salary in respect of a satisfaction of performance targets set 2014 and aligns their interests with put to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM.
Under the share plan by the Remuneration Committee.
rules the overall maximum opportunity Under the 2014 LTIP, awards of conditional shares, nil that may be granted in respect of a The performance measures are cost share options or other such form as has the same financial year will be 200% of annual reviewed regularly to ensure they economic effect may be made with vesting dependent base salary.
The normal maximum remain relevant but will be based on on the achievement of performance conditions set by the award limit will only be exceeded in financial measures and or comparative Remuneration Committee, normally over a three year exceptional circumstances involving total shareholder return related performance period.
Awards granted over shares may be the recruitment or retention of a senior measures.
The relevant metrics and the settled in cash at the election of the Remuneration employee.
These limits do not include respective weightings may vary each Committee.
the value of shares subject to any year based upon Company strategic tax-approved option granted as part of priorities.
For 2014 15 100% of awards As described on page 61, awards may also vest in good an ALTIP award.
will be based on earnings per share leaver circumstances or on the death of a participant or growth.
Performance measures and weightings The Remuneration Committee has the right to reduce for following years will be set out in the unvested or unexercised awards and or delay their directors annual remuneration report vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the for the relevant year.
Groups financial results or if the participant has been guilty of misconduct.
For achievement of threshold performance 20% of the maximum The Remuneration Committee may make a dividend opportunity will vest.
equivalent payment Dividend Equivalents to reflect dividends that would have been paid over the period to There will usually be straight line vesting on shares that vest.
This payment may be in the vesting between threshold and form of additional shares or a cash payment equal to the maximum performance.
value of those additional shares.
Where a tax-approved option is The Remuneration Committee may at its discretion granted as part of an ALTIP award, the structure awards as Approved Long Term Incentive Plan same performance conditions will ALTIP awards comprising both an HMRC apply to the tax-approved option as tax-approved option granted under the Executive Share apply to the LTIP award.
Option Scheme ESOS and an LTIP award.
ALTIP awards enable the participant and Company to benefit from HMRC tax-approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
ALTIP awards would be structured as a tax-approved option and a LTIP award, with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the tax-approved option.
Other than to enable the grant of ALTIP awards, the Company will not grant awards to executive directors under the ESOS.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures All employee To encourage all employees Executive directors are entitled to participate in an Participation limits are those set by the No performance conditions are share schemes to make a long-term HMRC tax-approved all-employee Savings Related U. K. tax authorities from time to time.
attached to awards in line with HMRC investment in the Companys Share Option Scheme SAYE under which they make practice.
shares in a tax efficient way.
monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option over the Companys shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Executive directors are also entitled to participate in an HMRC tax-approved All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
The executive directors participate in both sections of the AESOP, being the partnership and matching section and the free share section.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Retirement Purpose is to recruit and Executive directors are eligible to participate in the A. G. R. A.
White ceased his accrual under Not applicable.
benefits retain directors of the calibre BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the defined benefit section on 5 April required for the Company.
the Scheme, which comprises a defined contribution 2011.
The Company has set an overall section and a defined benefit section.
The defined maximum of 26% of salary as the Provides market competitive benefit section was closed to new entrants from 14 Company contribution under the URBS post-employment benefits or August 2003. in respect of R. A.
current practice is set at 22.5% of his Details of the entitlements accruing to the two executive salary as defined under the rules of the directors who are deferred members of the defined URBS.
benefit section are detailed in the table on page 69.
The contributions paid to the defined contribution section in The maximum combined Company respect of three executive directors are disclosed on contribution under the defined page 68.
Details of accruals under the URBS are contribution section and the URBS in disclosed on page 70. respect of the remaining executive directors is 19% of salary as defined in Executive directors may participate in the A. G. BARR the Scheme rules rising to 26% p. l. c. Unfunded Retirement Benefit Scheme URBS following the executives 50th birthday.
with the agreement of the Company.
The URBS was established to satisfy the Companys contractual The Remuneration Committee has obligations to provide retirement benefits for the benefit discretion to vary the delivery of the executive directors where either the annual or mechanism for retirement benefits, lifetime allowance has been exceeded whilst those however the exercise of this discretion individuals were members of the Scheme.
will not exceed the above limits for the provision of executive directors Benefits will be receivable in certain circumstances, retirement benefits.
including on retirement, death, change of control or cessation of employment in accordance with the rules of The Company has closed the defined the URBS.
benefits section of the Scheme to new members but the two executive In appropriate circumstances, executive directors may directors who are deferred members take a salary supplement instead of contributions into a will continue to receive benefits in pension plan.
accordance with the terms of the Scheme, subject to separately agreed contractual arrangements, including those summarised below: R. A.
Whites deferred pension will be re-valued in line with RPI until his normal retirement date.
White will continue to be entitled to receive life assurance benefits as if he were in pensionable service under the Scheme until his normal retirement date notwithstanding the termination of his employment with the Company, but only in circumstances where he is a good leaver, as set out in his service contract.
A. L. Memmotts accrued benefits retain a link to his final pensionable salary.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
