Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report, which describes how the main principles of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code have been applied during the year.
Information about the Board, its members and committees, and an overview of the Companys system of internal controls are included.
With the exception of the appointment of Pamela Powell, our new non-executive director, there were no changes to the Boards composition during the year.
Pamela brings with her an impressive track record in brand strategy and innovation, as well as considerable sector specific knowledge, all of which will greatly benefit the Company.
Pamelas appointment will further strengthen the Board and help us achieve our aim of greater board diversity.
Further details of the Boards composition are given on pages 32 and 33.
In order to enhance the Boards performance and effectiveness, we engaged an external consultant, Constal Limited, to conduct a formal board evaluation during the year.
Further information regarding the evaluation is set out on page 41.
Ronald G. Hanna Chairman 25 March 2014 The Board The Company is led by a strong and experienced board of directors the Board which brings a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
The Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The Board currently has nine members, comprising four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 32 and 33.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The Chairman also ensures that Board meetings are underpinned by a culture of openness and challenge, with sufficient time made available to debate issues arising.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the Board.
The senior independent non-executive director, J. R. Nicolson, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or the other executive directors, or where communication through such channels would be inappropriate.
The Board considers that M. A. Griffiths, J. R. Nicolson and P. Powell are independent for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code, and that the relationships and circumstances set out in that provision which may appear relevant to the determination of independence do not apply.
The Board considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
J. R. Nicolson fulfilled the role of senior independent director during the year to 26 January 2014.
In addition to his role as Chairman of the Company, R. G. Hanna is chairman of Bowleven plc and a director of Peatallan plc.
The Board does not consider that R. G. Hannas other commitments have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Company effectively.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire no later than the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which they were last elected or re-elected.
However, in order to comply with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
