Directors Remuneration Report Continued Approach to recruitment remuneration The policy aims to facilitate the appointment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business and execute the strategy effectively for the benefit of shareholders.
When appointing a new director, the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and in line with market practice.
The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration a number of relevant factors, which may include the calibre of the individual, the candidates existing remuneration package, and the specific circumstances of the individual including the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited.
The Remuneration Committee will typically seek to align the remuneration package with the Companys remuneration policy as set out in the policy table.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted excluding buy-out awards referred to below is 300% of salary in line with this policy.
Subject to this overall maximum variable remuneration, incentive awards will only be granted above the normal maximum annual award opportunities where the Remuneration Committee considers there to be a commercial rationale, which may include but is not limited to circumstances where an executive director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance.
The quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis.
The Remuneration Committee will ensure that any such awards are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance targets and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not achieved.
The individual will usually move over time onto a remuneration package that is consistent with the normal maximum annual award opportunities set out in the policy table.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to include other remuneration components or awards which are outside the specific terms of the policy but subject to the limit on variable remuneration to facilitate the hiring of candidates of an appropriate calibre, where the Remuneration Committee believes there is a need to do so in the best interests of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee would ensure that awards within the 300% of salary variable remuneration limit are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures.
The Remuneration Committee does not intend to use this discretion to make a non-performance related incentive payment for example a golden hello.
In some circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make payments or awards to recognise or buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Remuneration Committee will normally aim to do so broadly on a like-for-like basis taking into account a number of relevant factors regarding the forfeited arrangements which may include the form of award, any performance conditions attached to the awards and the time at which they would have vested.
These payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above, however the Remuneration Committees intention is that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share plans.
If necessary, and subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans as currently permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of an executive director.
Where a position is fulfilled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue according to the original terms.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or non-executive director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of appointment.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
