Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 76.
Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Group, determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, including approval of the Groups annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, all guarantees, treasury policies, the financial statements, the Companys dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the Board, alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the scope of delegations to Board committees, subsidiary boards and the management committee.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the executive directors and a management committee, which as at the date of this report includes the executive directors and thirteen senior managers.
Board performance evaluation Every year the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors is evaluated.
In line with the Code, during the year an external consultant, Bernice Dunsmuir of Constal Limited, conducted a formal evaluation of the Board and its committees.
Bernice Dunsmuir is an independent adviser with no other connection to the Company.
The evaluation was conducted by the completion of detailed and comprehensive written survey questionnaires.
The results of the evaluation were shared with all members of the Board.
Overall, it was noted that the Board and its committees were operating in an effective manner and performing satisfactorily, with no major issues identified.
As in previous years, the Chairman carried out a performance evaluation of each of the directors.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following performance evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue to be effective and all of the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, including commitment of time for Board meetings and committee meetings and any other relevant duties.
Independent professional advice Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior management of the business.
Training and development On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with the other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the Board and committees of the Board.
Meetings and attendance Board meetings are scheduled to be held nine times each year.
Between these meetings, as required, additional Board meetings and or Board committee meetings may be held to progress the Companys business.
A part of each Board meeting is dedicated to the discussion of specific strategy matters.
In advance of all Board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors being present.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
