Corporate Governance Report Continued The three main elements of the Groups internal control system, including risk identification, are as follows: The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The Board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the Board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statements, statement of financial position and indebtedness, is reported.
The Board and the management committee review the business and financial performance against the prior year and against annual plans approved by the Board.
Audits and reviews The key internal risks identified in the Group are subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm which is independent from the Board and the Company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The Board confirms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
Share capital structure The share capital structure of the Company is set out in the Directors Report.
U. K. Corporate Governance Code compliance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 26 January 2014 with the provisions of the Code, except as set out below.
Prior to 1 November 2013, the Board comprised four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, and two independent non-executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr was a non-executive director during the year although he is not considered by the Board to be independent.
P. Powell, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2013.
Therefore, following P. Powells appointment, the Board composition was the same with the exception that there were three independent non-executive directors.
Accordingly, during the year to 26 January 2014 the composition of the Board did not, at any time, comply with provision B.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The composition of the Companys Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee did not comply with provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code at all times during the year to 26 January 2014 due to the fact that these Committees did not, at all times, comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
However, the composition of these committees did comply with these provisions following the appointments of J. R. Nicolson and P. Powell to these committees during the year.
Provision D. 1.5 of the Code recommends that executive directors contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, the current executive directors service contracts provide for a notice period of 12 months except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the directors are entitled to a liquidated damages payment equal to the directors basic salary at termination plus the value of all contractual benefits for a two year period.
Given the size of the Company and the sector dynamics at the time the current directors were recruited, the Remuneration Committee considered this provision appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, this provision will continue to be honoured as a contractual commitment made to these directors: however this provision will not be included in service contracts with new executive directors appointed in future.
A copy of the financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A. Barr Company Secretary 25 March 2014 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
