Audit Committee Report Composition The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors: M. A. Griffiths, W. R. G. Barr, J. R. Nicolson and P. Powell.
P. Powell was appointed to the Audit Committee during the year.
The Audit Committee is chaired by M. A. Griffiths.
The Board is satisfied that M. A. Griffiths has recent and relevant financial experience as required by provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
Biographical details relating to each of the committee members are shown on pages 32 and 33.
Meetings The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The meetings are attended by the committee members and, by invitation, the Finance Director, the Central Financial Controller, and representatives from the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee regularly meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
Role and responsibilities The primary role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities.
This includes: monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function and managements responsiveness to any findings and recommendations: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving its remuneration and terms of engagement: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Activities of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee has: reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the key accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results for the six month period ended 28 July 2013: reviewed and agreed the external auditors audit strategy memorandum in advance of its audit for the year ended 26 January 2014: discussed the report received from the external auditor regarding its audit in respect of the year ended 26 January 2014, which report included comments on its findings on internal control and a statement on its independence and objectivity: received and reviewed reports from management regarding their approach to key accounting considerations and judgements in the half year and full year financial statements: reviewed the half year and full year financial statements: reviewed the Groups risk register and the control of the Groups financial and business risks: discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and internal auditors: reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management to matters raised: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls and the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups anti-bribery systems and controls: received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of the Groups operations, controls and processes: made a recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of the internal auditor: made recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and remuneration of the external auditor and monitored the performance of the auditor: monitored and reviewed the performance of the internal auditor and the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: A. G. BARR p. l. c. 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 reviewed its policies on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor and on the employment of former employees of the Groups external auditor: reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors: and reviewed the performance of the Audit Committee and its terms of reference.
Significant areas The significant matters and key accounting judgements considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: the valuation of inventory: the valuation of inventory is judgemental due to the volatile nature of raw material commodity prices and, as the Group uses standard costing, changes in production levels can lead to purchase price variances which require to be accounted for correctly.
The Audit Committee discussed and challenged managements judgements in relation to inventory valuation and considered reports from the external auditor on this area and were satisfied that inventory valuations were reasonable: the carrying value of brand support accruals: during the year the Audit Committee received and considered a report from the internal auditor regarding the controls operating in relation to brand support expenditure.
It also received and considered reports from management on the level of accruals at the half year and at the year end and, in particular, on brand support accruals where settlement has not been fully and finally settled by the year end or which relate to prior years.
The Audit Committee was content that there were no issues arising: and accounting for property, plant and equipment: the Group has constructed a new facility in Milton Keynes which increases the judgement required in relation to assessing what expenditure should be capitalised as property, plant and equipment, in considering borrowing costs that should be capitalised and assessing appropriate depreciation rates and estimated useful lives of such assets.
The Audit Committee received reports from management on the assumptions adopted in each of these areas.
The Audit Committee was content after due challenge and debate with the assumptions and judgements applied.
The lease in relation to plant and equipment at Milton Keynes was considered by the Audit Committee and after discussion and challenge the Audit Committee was comfortable that the lease be classed as an operating lease.
Other areas Other matters considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: Exceptional items: the Audit Committee considered reports received from management in relation to the classification and presentation of certain items as exceptional and was satisfied with the treatment and presentation of various items which arose during the year as exceptional, the majority of which related to the proposed Britvic merger and related Competition Commission enquiry.
Re-financing: the Audit Committee considered the bank facilities available to the Group and agreed that the current RBS facilities which were due to expire during 2014 be replaced with a new 20m three year revolving credit facility with RBS and Barclays in March 2014.
Defined benefit pension scheme valuation: the Audit Committee considered and was satisfied with a report received from the Groups actuary and management on the actuarial assumptions used to determine the surplus or obligation in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
The Audit Committee also considered the report by the external auditor who considered the key actuarial assumptions and compared these key assumptions to other actuarially determined benchmarks: asset backed funding ABF arrangement: the Audit Committee considered reports received from management and was satisfied with the proposed accounting and tax treatment of the ABF arrangement implemented during the year in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
Details of the ABF arrangement are included in note 25 to the financial statements: impact of IAS 19R in relation to accounting for pensions: the Audit Committee considered reports from the Groups actuary on the impact of IAS 19R and was satisfied with its treatment and the restatement of prior year financial statements in line with the new accounting standard.
The restatement is explained in note 1 to the financial statements: and error in relation to defined benefit pension scheme valuation disclosed in note 25 to the financial statements: the Audit Committee considered, following discussion of the error with the external auditor, the treatment of the error identified and disclosed within that note.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Audit Committee Report Continued The Audit Committee receives regular presentations from members of the senior management team.
During the past year, the Audit Committee has considered presentations on health and safety and programme management from representatives of the management team.
External audit The Groups external auditor is KPMG Audit plc.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors performance, independence and objectivity annually.
The Audit Committee ensures that procedures are in place to safeguard the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditor reports regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that it has taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain its independence and objectivity.
The Group has a policy in place which ensures that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
Where fees for any non-audit project are expected to exceed 50,000, the prior approval of the chairman of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director is required.
Where fees for non-audit projects are in aggregate expected to exceed 150,000, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and non-audit services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
Whilst fees for non-audit services were approximately three times those for audit services, the Audit Committee considered the nature and level of non-audit services provided and was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor were not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
A significant proportion of the non-audit fees during the year were for services provided in relation to the implementation of the ABF arrangement and the majority of the remainder related to the provision of tax advisory and compliance services.
The chair of the Audit Committee discussed the level of KPMG Audit plcs non-audit fees with the relevant senior statutory auditor and KPMG Audit plc confirmed that during the year there were no circumstances where KPMG Audit plc was engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.
KPMG Audit plc has acted as the Groups external auditor since its appointment in May 2009 following a competitive tender process.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The senior statutory auditor rotates every five years to ensure independence: an audit partner rotation therefore took place at the end of the financial year and the Audit Committee took steps to ensure that a new appropriately qualified and independent senior statutory auditor was identified to be responsible for the audit of the Groups 2014 15 financial statements.
The Audit Committee acknowledges the new requirement under the Code to tender the external audit contract at least every ten years.
The Audit Committee carried out a review during the year and continues to be satisfied with KPMG Audit plcs performance and that it remains objective and independent.
KPMG Audit plc has advised that its activities are due to be wound down and they are not seeking re-appointment.
The Audit Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP, KPMG Audit plcs parent entity, be put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Internal audit At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the internal auditor following meetings with directors and senior managers within the business and with reference to the significant risks contained within the Groups risk register and identified controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on progress against the internal control plan throughout the year.
Martin A. Griffiths Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 March 2014 A. G. BARR p. l. c. 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
