Directors Remuneration Report Continued The figures in the single figure table above are derived from the following: a Salary & Fees The amount of salary fees received in the year.
A salary sacrifice arrangement is operated by the Company.
Employees who join this arrangement no longer pay contributions to the pension schemes but receive a lower taxable salary.
Directors salaries are shown gross of salary sacrifice pension contributions.
b Benefits The value of benefits received in the year.
These include car allowance, fuel benefit, the value of SAYE options vesting in the year, and AESOP free and matching shares awarded in the year.
SAYE: option shares are valued at the market price of the option shares at the date of vesting less the option exercise price.
AESOP: free and matching shares are valued at market value at the date of award.
Details of the executive directors interests in the SAYE are set out on page 75. c Bonus A description of the annual bonus in respect of the year and Group performance against which the bonus pay-out was determined is provided on page 65. d Long term incentives The value of LTIP awards that vest in respect of the year.
LTIP: the shares which will vest in respect of the year have been valued based on the market value of the shares at 26 January 2014.
The value of the shares which vested in respect of the prior year was the market value of the shares on the vesting date.
Details of the executive directors interests in the LTIP are set out on page 75. e Pension The pension figure includes: for individuals in the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme defined contribution section, the Companys contributions to the defined contribution section, excluding any pension contributions made in respect of an individual under the Companys salary sacrifice arrangement: for individuals in the Schemes defined benefit section, the additional value achieved in the year calculated using the HMRC method using a multiplier of 20 : and the value of the accrued liability for the year in respect of the Companys contribution for each director participating in the URBS.
Further details of pension benefits are set out on pages 68 to 70.
Individual elements of remuneration Base salary and fees Details of base salaries for individual executive directors for the year ended 26 January 2014 and for the following year are set out in the table below: Base salary for year to Base salary for year to 26 January 2014 25 January 2015 Increase Executive Director 000 000 % R. A.
B. C. Short 248 257 3.7 J. D. Kemp 213 221 3.4 A. L. Memmott 190 197 3.3 An increase of 3.2% will be made to the executive directors salaries with effect from 1 April 2014.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
