Corporate Governance Report Continued The attendance of directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings in the year to 26 January 2014 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Maximum 9 Maximum 4 Maximum 5 Maximum 2 Executive R. A.
B. C. Short attended all of the audit committee meetings during the year by invitation.
J. R. Nicolson was appointed to the remuneration committee on 28 May 2013 and could have attended a maximum of three remuneration committee meetings.
P. Powell was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2013 and each of the Board committees on 20 January 2014.
P. Powell could have attended a maximum of one Board meeting and no committee meetings.
During the year, the Board also convened one additional Board meeting in relation to the possible merger with Britvic plc.
All of the directors who were entitled to attend that Board meeting attended the meeting, with the exception of J. R. Nicolson.
Conflicts of Interest The Articles allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established appropriate conflicts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought as appropriate.
During the year, no such conflicts arose and no such authorisations were sought.
Committees of the Board The terms of reference of the principal committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website, www.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Nomination Committee in discharging its responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Audit Committee is described within the Audit Committees Report on pages 46 to 48.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 76.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
