48 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Corporate governance report This report describes our governance principles and structures and reects our commitment to good corporate governance across the Group.
Chairmans overview Compliance with the UK Corporate Corporate governance framework Governance Code The Chairmans views on corporate governance The Premier Farnell Group operates within a at Premier Farnell and our compliance with the This report describes how, throughout the clear governance framework, which is outlined UK Corporate Governance Code the Code are year ended 2 February 2014, we complied in the diagram below and set out in this report.
included in the Chairmans statement set out on with the main principles and provisions of the The Groups risk management framework is pages 18 and 19.
Premier Farnell is committed to good described in the Effective Risk Management and corporate governance across the Group, for Internal Control section on page 57 of the Audit which the Board is accountable.
description of its business model is set out in the Strategic report starting at page 10.
A copy of the Code can be found on the FRC website https: www.
Corporate governance framework Premier Farnell plc Chairman: Val Gooding Principal objective: leading the Board to ensure effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Board of Premier Farnell plc Eight directors: two Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman and five further Non-Executive Directors.
Principal objective: collectively to ensure the long term success of the Company.
Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman: Val Gooding Chairman: Dennis Millard Chairman: Paul Withers Andrew Dougal Andrew Dougal Andrew Dougal Dennis Millard Paul Withers Dennis Millard Laurence Bain Peter Ventress Peter Ventress Paul Withers Principal objective: to ensure that the Principal objective: to develop policy Thomas Reddin interests of shareholders are properly on Executive remuneration and set the Principal objective: to lead a formal, protected in relation to financial reporting remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, rigorous and transparent process for the and internal controls.
individual Executive Directors and senior appointment of new Directors to the Board managers immediately below board level.
Audit Committee report page 55. and its Committees.
Digital Advisory Board Tax and Treasury Committee Disclosure Committee Chairman: Tom Reddin Chairman: Mark Whiteling Chairman: Steven Webb Principal objective: to offer counsel to the Principal objective: to make Principal objective: to assist the Board in Board on matters relating to the web and recommendations to the Board on tax and ensuring that its disclosures are accurate, eCommerce.
Further detail on page 59. treasury strategy and policy.
Further detail complete and fairly represent the financial on page 59. condition and results of operations of the Company.
indd 48 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 49 Board size and composition t satisfying themselves that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust: The Board currently comprises eight Directors: the Chairman, five further Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The size and t determining levels of remuneration: composition of the Board and its Committees are regularly reviewed by t satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information: and the Board and, in particular, by the Nominations Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate balance and diverse mix of skills, experience, t succession planning for the Executive Directors.
independence and knowledge of the Group.
During the year there was one The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises control change to the Boards composition, when Peter Ventress was appointed over the performance of the Company by agreeing budgetary targets as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2013.
More details of our board and monitoring performance against those targets.
Certain matters are members can be found on pages 46 and 47. reserved for approval by the Board and the Board has overall responsibility The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management, as Group.
Executive Directors are responsible for running the business described onpages 56 and 57.
Following presentation by executive operations and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources management and a disciplined process of review and challenge by are in place in order to achieve the Companys strategic aims.
the Board, clear decisions on policy and strategy are adopted and the executive management are empowered to implement those decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for: A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is maintained t constructively challenging and helping develop proposals on strategy: which covers items that are significant to the Group as a whole due to t scrutinising the performance of management: their strategic, financial or reputational implications.
"A summary of these matters includes: Summary of Board matters for approval Strategic t ""QQSPWBM BOE NPOJUPSJOH TUSBUFHJD and annual business plans t 3FWJFX PG CVTJOFTT QFSGPSNBODF t ""QQSPWJOH TJHOJmDBOU BDRVJTJUJPOT mergers or disposals Succession planning and reward t &OTVSJOH BEFRVBUF TVDDFTTJPO Regulatory plans are in place t ""QQSPWBM PG UIF SPVQ T JOUFSJN t #PBSE BOE #PBSE $PNNJUUFF dividend and recommendation appointments and removals of final dividend t ""QQPJOUNFOU PS SFNPWBM PG UIF t $PNQMJBODF XJUI UIF '$"" T Company Secretary Listing Rules, Disclosure t ""QQPJOUNFOU PS SFNPWBM PG UIF and Transparency Rules and auditors and determination of the City Code on Takeovers the audit fee and Mergers Board t. BKPS DIBOHFT JO FNQMPZFF share or pension schemes Decisions Finance, governance and controls t OUFSOBM DPOUSPM BOE SJTL management systems Reporting t ""QQSPWBM PG QPMJDJFT NBKPS t ""QQSPWBM PG UIF ""OOVBM 3FQPSU projects and contracts and Accounts to be putbefore t 0WFSTJHIU PG %JSFDUPST DPOnJDUT the Company of interest t ""QQSPWBM PG mOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT t 3VMFT BOE QSPDFEVSFT GPS t. BUUFST GPS CVTJOFTT SFWJFXT dealing in the Companys shares t $PSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF QPMJDZ and compliance with the Code 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW."
indd 49 24 04 2014 16:01 50 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Corporate governance report Board roles and responsibilities Full biographical details for all Board members can be found on pages 46 and 47 of this report.
Chairman Senior Independent Director or SID Val Gooding Dennis Millard The role of the Chairman or Chair is to: The role of the Senior Independent Director is to: t lead the Board to ensure effectiveness in all aspects t provide a line of communication to the Company for ofits role: shareholders on issues they may not want to address through other channels: t plan agenda items and timings for board meetings: t lead the resolution of any significant issues within the t ensure the membership of the Board is appropriate Board that it would not be appropriate for the Chair tomeet the needs of the business: orthe CEO to handle: t oversee that the Board Committees carry out their t act as a sounding board for the Chairman: and duties including reporting to the Board: t lead the other Non-Executive Directors in their annual t establish appropriate personal objectives for the appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
Chief Executive: t ensure Directors are up to date with training and development: t provide the information necessary for Directors to take a full and constructive part in board discussions: t promote an open culture of debate: and t develop and maintain effective communication with shareholders.
Chief Executive Company Secretary Laurence Bain Steven Webb The role of the Chief Executive officer Under the direction of the Chairman, the role of the or Chief Executive or CEO is to: Company Secretary and his team is to: t run the day-to-day business and operations t ensure good information ows within the Board and ofthe Group: its Committees and between senior management andNon-Executive Directors: t lead the development and delivery of strategy to enable the Group to meet the requirements of its shareholders: t facilitate Director inductions and professional development: t lead and oversee the executive management ofthe Group: t as requested, arrange independent professional advicefor Directors at the Companys expense: and t meet the Groups budget and strategic plans: and t advise the Board through the Chairman on t provide the appropriate environment to recruit, governance matters.
engage, retain and develop the personnel needed todeliver the strategy.
indd 50 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 51 External appointments Board succession Non-Executive Directors Premier Farnell recognises that there are significant advantages to both Date of Start date for individuals and to the Board of our Directors serving on the Boards of other Name appointment current term companies.
In line with the Code, the Companys policy is that Executive A Dougal 01 09 2006 18 06 2013 one year Directors are permitted to hold one Non-Executive Directorship with D Millard 01 09 2007 18 06 2013 one year another company, with all external appointments being approved by the P Withers 01 09 2007 18 06 2013 one year Board.
In accordance with this policy, Mark Whiteling retains his position T Reddin 30 09 2010 18 06 2013 three year as Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Future V Gooding 15 06 2011 15 06 2011 three year plc.
Details of the remuneration for this external appointment are included P Ventress 01 10 2013 01 10 2013 three year in the Remuneration report on page 75.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Our Chairman, Val Gooding, was appointed as a Trustee to the Board of the Historic Royal Palaces Charitable Trust with effect from 1 August 2013 Induction, business awareness and development and as Trustee to the Board of the English National Ballet with effect from 1 January 2014.
She was also appointed as a Non-Executive Director of The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive a full formal Vodafone Group Plc with effect from 1 February 2014.
Val stepped down and comprehensive induction.
This includes but is not limited to: from her roles as Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered plc in May t an overview of the Group, its functions and governance: 2013 and the Lawn Tennis Association on 31 December 2013.
After the financial year ended, Val was appointed as a Non-Executive Director t briengs on Directors regulatory and compliance responsibilities: ofTUITravel PLC, commencing on 7 February 2014. t site visits to Group locations: t detailed reviews of the strategic projects and initiatives underway: and Conicts of interest t one-to-one meetings with senior managers.
Any Director is obliged to seek authorisation before taking up any position that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the Company.
In order that Directors continue to further their understanding of the issues The Board is empowered to authorise situations of potential conict facing the Group and are able to challenge constructively and help develop of interest, where it sees t, so that a Director is not in breach of his or proposals on strategy, the Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to her duty.
All existing external appointments and other such situational visit Group locations.
During the year under review, visits have taken conicts of each Director have been reviewed and authorised by the place to our facilities in Liege Belgium, Ravenswood US, Cleveland Board and are recorded on a register which is reviewed annually and US, Ohio US, Preston UK, Lyon France, Krakow Poland and Leeds noted at each board meeting.
All Directors must ensure that their external UK.
In addition, the December 2013 board meeting was held in Chicago appointments do not involve a time commitment that would adversely US, providing an opportunity for the Non-Executive Directors to meet affect their responsibilities to Premier Farnell.
If a conict were to arise members of the Americas management team and review strategic plans in relation to a transaction or other arrangement proposed between the and business performance.
These site visits, which include business Company and a party in which any Director had an interest, that Director presentations and updates, are in addition to the frequent reviews on would be obliged to declare the interest, would not receive board papers current issues made at the scheduled board meetings by Executive and would take no part in any discussions or decisions on the matter.
Directors and other senior managers and the presentation on his or her business that each regional business president and functional head makes Re-election of directors totheBoard at one of its scheduled meetings at least annually.
In compliance with the Code, all of our Directors will retire at our Annual A further aspect of ongoing development occurs during the Boards formal General Meeting in June 2014 and offer themselves for re-election save performance evaluation each year.
To review individual contribution, each for Peter Ventress who will seek election as this is his first year as a NonDirector receives feedback on his or her performance: this feedback is also Executive Director with the Company.
Details of the AGM 2014 can be used by the Chairman to assess the time commitment and the training and found on page 61. development needs of each Director.
Non-Executive Director independence and length of service The Board considers each Non-Executive Directors independence on an annual basis as part of his or her performance evaluation.
In its 2013 14 review, the Board concluded that all the Non-Executive Directors who had served during the year other than the Chairman for whom this is not relevant under the Code were independent.
The Chairman met the independence criteria dened by the Code as at the date of her appointment.
In line with the Code, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election, and terms beyond six years are subject to rigorous review.
Accordingly, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a maximum of two terms of three-years and thereafter annually subject to satisfactory performance and commitment.
The respective periods ofservice of our Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are: 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 51 24 04 2014 16:01 52 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Corporate governance report Board meetings Performance evaluation During the financial year ended 2 February 2014, the Board held eight A formal and rigorous evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, its scheduled board meetings, of which two were to consider business Committees and each individual Director is conducted every year.
In line performance and review the Companys Interim Management Statements with the Code, this process is externally facilitated in every third year.
IMS prior to their publication.
In 2012 13, the external evaluation was led by Raymond Dinkin, of Consilium Board Review or Consilium an independent consultancy.
In 2013 14, all Directors committed an appropriate amount of time to full their duties and responsibilities to the Board.
The main points that arose from the 2012 13 evaluation and the actions taken are summarised below: Board and Committee attendance during 2013 14 2012 13 Performance review Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Outcome Action taken during the year Name of Director meetings meetings meetings meetings Chairman: Information presented to the Key performance metrics have been Val Gooding 8 8 2 2 Board should include more fully agreed with the Board and are now developed market analysis with reviewed annually.
Market insights Executive clear performance metrics.
are presented to the Board at Directors: each meeting.
Laurence Bain 8 8 2 2 Mark Whiteling 8 8 Schedule the strategy review A review of the strategy was held Non-Executive ahead of operational planning in March 2013 and further annual Directors: each year, with guidance from reviews are scheduled.
Andrew Dougal 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 the Board on its agenda.
Dennis Millard 7 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 Consider adding one additional A further full board meeting has been Thomas Reddin 8 8 2 2 board meeting per year to added to the Boards annual calendar Paul Withers 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 review strategic priorities and in October each year, in addition to 1 Peter Ventress 4 4 1 1 2 2 new initiatives.
the two shorter meetings held to review the Groups IMS in September Not a member of the Committee.
Dennis Millard was unavoidably absent from the May 2013 board meeting when a prior and March each year.
commitment required him to be elsewhere.
He provided feedback on the papers, points fordiscussion and questions prior to the meeting, with apologies for his inability to attend.
Strengthen the relationship with The Companys brokers have been 1.
As Peter Ventress was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013, these represent the maximum number of meetings that Peter could have attended during the year.
investors through occasional invited to attend and present to meetings with the Companys at least one board meeting each brokers to provide overviews year, commencing with the March of the marketplace and 2013 meeting.
Consider holding a minimum The Non-Executive Directors have of two meetings per annum two meetings each year without the at which only Non-Executive Executive Directors present and hold discussions without the Executives Directors are present.
prior to each Remuneration Committee meeting.
Consider which Executives The Chief Executive and Chief People should attend the Remuneration officer regularly attend meetings Committee meetings to provide to provide input, except where advice on senior manager and inappropriate.
The Chief Finance Group remuneration.
officer does not attend unless his specic input is required.
Conduct more frequent and Reviews of all business units have regular reviews of all businesses been added to the Boards rolling and functions in detail.
12-monthly schedule, with functional heads attending the Boards annual review of strategy.
Consider whether Company Decision was announced to the should move to half yearly reporting.
market in March 2013 to move to half yearly reporting.
indd 52 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 53 Neither Consilium nor Raymond Dinkin has any connection with the Relations with shareholders Company and both are considered to be independent.
Engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure that Premier Farnells medium and long term objectives are understood and to receive In June 2013, for the financial year 2013 14, an internal board evaluation feedback on our strategy, performance and governance.
It is also crucial took place led by Val Gooding, Chair of the Board.
The review included that shareholders have the confidence in the Boards ability to oversee individual Director appraisals to which all board members contributed by the implementation of the strategy and that, if they have concerns, they way of a questionnaire.
In addition the Chairman met each Director in know to whom these should be addressed.
The Chairman, supported by order to provide him with feedback on his performance from the rest of the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Remuneration the Board, discuss contribution and personal development requirements Committee on matters relating to Executive remuneration, is primarily and consider wider approaches to enhance or refresh board processes.
responsible for ensuring that the Board is accessible to major shareholders The SID took feedback from the other board members on the performance and that channels for communication are open.
She also has principal of the Chair and met to discuss this with her.
The recommendations made responsibility for ensuring that all of the board members and in particular by each board member were discussed in an open forum by the whole the Non-Executive Directors are aware of any concerns raised by major Board during the December 2013 meeting and the outcomes of the shareholders and that their views are taken into account.
The Chief evaluation and resulting actions agreed.
These were in summary : Executive and Chief Financial officer both have regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
2013 14 Performance review Shareholder engagement activities during the financial Outcome Action planned and taken year included: during the year t the Chair of the Board and the Chairman of our Remuneration Committee holding individual meetings, in person and by phone, in Board and Committee agendas to The Chairman of the Board and the which issues such as strategy, succession planning and executive be revised to enable increased focus Company Secretary reviewed the remuneration were discussed: on strategic issues and reduce time spread and timing of agenda items spent on routine matters.
to align with strategic priorities and t the Company Secretary corresponding in writing and by phone with financial events through the year.
several major shareholders in relation to executive remuneration: Each board paper to include an The Company Secretary issued t the Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer holding a number of face-to-face meetings with investors during the year: and executive summary and clearly revised board paper guidelines identify key issues.
Length of papers to contributors to clarify t all Directors attending the AGM, where they were available to answer to be reviewed to ensure appropriate managements view of key issues questions and undertake constructive dialogue with shareholders.
Going concern A day-long meeting to be The annual strategy day for 2014 15 held in each year specically is scheduled for June 2014.
The Strategic report reviews, in relation to the Group as a whole: reviewing strategy.
t its business activities: More frequent feedback on the Each board meeting ends with an t its financial position: functioning of the Board.
informal discussion of what worked well and areas for improvement.
t the factors likely to affect its future development and performance: t the objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed: and t its financial capital.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including its solvency and liquidity.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing accounts.
Share capital and control Details are included on pages 60 and 61 of the Directors report.
