54 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Corporate governance report Actions undertaken during the year Nominations Committee report The Committee meets when necessary and was convened twice The composition of the Nominations Committee during the year was: during the financial year to consider Board, Committee and Executive appointments, Directors tenure, succession and composition.
In considering the skills, experience and knowledge of the Board, the Val Gooding Committee met to consider the re-appointment of Andrew Dougal, Paul Withers, Dennis Millard and Thomas Reddin as Non-Executive Directors.
Andrew Dougal Following a rigorous review, the Committee recommended to the Board that all four Non-Executive Directors be reappointed for a term of one Laurence Bain year in the case of Andrew, Paul and Dennis and for a second three year term in the case of Thomas Reddin.
As outlined by the Code, all Directors Dennis Millard will continue to stand for annual re-election or appointment at every AGM, provided they are considered to demonstrate commitment and their Thomas Reddin performance remains effective.
Paul Withers The Nominations Committee recognises the benets to the Group of diversity in the workforce and in the composition of the Board itself.
Val Gooding Chairman While the Companys policy is to make all appointments based on the best candidate for the role, its target is for women to make up 30% of management grade employees.
The Company is making progress towards As recommended by the Code, the Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Laurence Bain, Chief Executive achieving this, with women making up over 16% of the Global Executive Team or GET, the level immediately below the Board.
Female membership officer, is also a permanent member, enabling him to comment on the balance of skills and knowledge required at Board and Committee level of the Board currently stands at 12.5%.
Although the percentage is below the overall Group target for senior management, the Board has and among the next level of management immediately below the Board.
If the Committee is convened to discuss the Board Chairmans position, followed the Companys policy of engaging the best candidate for a role, regardless of gender or other diversity.
The recognition of the benefit of the Senior Independent Director chairs the meeting.
While only members of the Committee have the right to attend meetings, the Chief People greater female representation at Board and senior management level will continue to be a factor in future appointments.
There is further information officer and external advisers may also be invited to contribute on specified agenda items.
Steven Webb, the Group Company Secretary, acts as on the Companys policy and practices on diversity on page 43 of the Strategic report.
Succession planning is a key remit of the Committee and is reviewed Key objective: to lead a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board and its Committees.
regularly for the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and the wider leadership of the organisation.
Membership of the Board and Committees Responsibilities: was considered as part of the annual evaluation and re-election process t To review the composition of the Board including its balance of skills during the year to ensure each Director continues to perform his or her and experience role effectively and that, when required, membership will be refreshed.
Succession planning for the GET is reviewed annually by the Board t To lead the process for board appointments and recommend the appointment of new Directors to ensure that there is a pipeline of prospective candidates for Senior Executive positions.
t To review the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors During the year, on reviewing the composition of the Board, the t To make recommendations on the composition of the Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of Peter Ventress Boards Committees as an additional Non-Executive Director.
Before starting the search for a new member, the Nominations Committee evaluated the balance of skills, t To consider succession for senior and Executive positions.
experience, independence and knowledge of the Board before a detailed The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available candidate specication dening the criteria for the new appointment was on the Governance section of our website at www.
The Miles Partnership an agency with no connection to the Company was appointed to help with the search for the additional Non-Executive, and put forward candidates to be interviewed by the Chairman of the Board and Laurence Bain.
Candidates also had the opportunity to meet Paul Withers, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and other Board members more informally.
From the shortlist of interviewed candidates, Peter Ventress was chosen for appointment due to his extensive international business to business experience and his combination of both strategic and commercial skills.
Peter joined the Board with effect from 1 October 2013 and attended his first full face-to-face board meeting in December 2013.
