Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 55 Actions undertaken during the year Audit Committee report The key activities for the Committee in 2013 14 were as follows: The composition of the Audit Committee during the year was: As in each year, the effectiveness of the annual audit process was reviewed during the year, along with the performance of the lead audit partner, when the robustness of the audit process, quality of delivery and service Dennis Millard levels provided was rigorously assessed and input sought from senior management and those involved in the audit process across the business.
Andrew Dougal  LLP were first appointed as the Groups auditor in 1997.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance to Paul Withers Audit Committees published in September 2012, the Company proposes to put the Groups requirement for audit services out to tender once in Peter Ventress from 01 10 13 each ten-year period, with the tender timed to coincide with the rotation of engagement of the lead audit partner.
Such rotations take place every five years, with the next rotation scheduled for 2017 18.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditor was also considered by the Committee, as it is each year.
Particular regard is given Dennis Millard Chairman to the level of non-audit fees.
A formal policy is maintained on the provision of non-audit services which prohibits the provision of services such as financial information systems design and implementation, internal audit Dennis Millard, the Chairman of the Committee, brings significant recent and relevant financial expertise, which is augmented by the considerable outsourcing or legal services, with tax compliance services permitted within dened monetary limits.
All other permitted non-audit services are financial expertise and experience of the other members of the Committee.
There is more information on Denniss experience on page47.
Steven Webb, considered on a case-by-case basis by the Chair of the Audit Committee on behalf of the Committee.
This policy also allows certain auditthe Group Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee.
related services to be provided by the auditor within dened monetary In addition to Committee members, there are a number of regular limits.
The full non-audit services policy is available in the Investors, attendees at each meeting.
The Chief Executive, the Board Chairman, Corporate Governance, Board Committees section of our website at the other Non-Executive Directors, Chief Financial officer, Head of Internal www.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee received Audit and lead external audit partner normally attend all scheduled Audit a report on all non-audit services provided and the estimated cost since Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee members regularly take the last meeting.
The Audit Committee monitors these costs in the context time before or after a meeting, without any Executive Directors or senior of the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the potential to affect management present, to raise any questions and discuss issues with auditor independence and objectivity does not arise.
The split between the external auditor or Head of Internal Audit.
The Chairman of the Audit audit and non-audit fees for 2013 14 and information on the nature of Committee meets each of the CFO, Head of Internal Audit and the external the non-audit fees incurred is detailed on page 88 of the consolidated auditor separately to review current issues and developments prior to financial statements.
each meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chief Financial officer for line management purposes and The Audit Committee has adopted and implemented a Group-wide policy restricting the employment by the Group of former employees of the functionally to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Key objective: to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly In accordance with the Code, the Committee monitors the effectiveness protected in relation to financial reporting and internal controls.
of both the internal audit and external audit functions.
To comply with Responsibilities: this requirement, the Committee reviews and comments on the internal t To review accounting policies and the integrity and content of the and external audit plans before it approves them.
It then considers financial statements progress during the year by assessing the major findings of their work, the t To monitor disclosure controls and procedures and the Groups perceptiveness of observations, the implementation of recommendations and nally from management feedback.
internal controls In 2013 14, the Audit Committees terms of reference were modied to t To consider the adequacy and scope of external and internal audits reect the new responsibilities that the Committee was asked to assume t To oversee the appointment and ongoing relationship with the in regard of the additional regulatory requirement that the Board now has external auditor in ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
In looking at this new requirement, the Committee t At the Boards request, to provide advice on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable was encouraged that existing procedures were well aligned to achieving this objective.
Accordingly, ensuring that these procedural aspects were t To monitor the objectivity, independence and effectiveness of the sufciently well co-ordinated and documented was a key part of putting external auditor, particularly with regard to the scope and expenditure the Committee in a position to complete the work necessary to full its onnon-audit work obligations to the Board.
t To review and approve the statements to be included in the Annual Report on internal control and risk management t To review and report on the significant issues considered in relation tothe financial statements and how addressed.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Governance section of our website at www.
indd 55 24 04 2014 16:01 56 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Corporate governance report In addition to the Committees responsibility to review the Annual Report at 3.
Tax accounting the request of the Board, the Committee also monitors the integrity of all The Audit Committee has reviewed the tax position of the Group with financial statements in the Annual Report and half year results statements, both management and the auditors.
The Committee reviewed the basis and the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
of calculation of the effective tax rate, the status of the Groups tax To support with this process, the Audit Committee members review the compliance, details of significant estimates of matters under discussion minutes and reports from the Disclosure Committee whose responsibility it with the tax authorities and the level of provisions for them.
The Committee is to review and sign off business unit internal controls, consider the interim concluded there is appropriate provision for the Groups tax liabilities.
and preliminary results announcements following management verication and to assess the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Going concern Further details of the Committees procedures to review the effectiveness The Audit Committee has considered the Going Concern basis of the Groups systems of internal control during the year can be found in assumed within the financial statements.
The underlying assumptions, Effective risk management and internal control below.
the reasonableness of those assumptions and the comparison of those assumptions versus previous years were all considered as part of the The Committee recognises that all financial statements include estimates Going Concern review.
This review also takes into account budgetary and judgements by management.
The key audit areas are agreed with performance as well as known funding facilities.
The Committee agrees management and the external auditors as part of the year-end audit with these assumptions and the adoption of the Going Concern basis planning process.
This includes an assessment by management at forthe preparation of the financial statements.
both a business unit and Group level of the significant areas requiring management judgement.
These areas are reviewed with the auditors to The Committee is satisfied with the judgements in these areas and that ensure that appropriate levels of audit work are completed and the results sufficient audit work has been undertaken to support managements of this work are reviewed by the Committee.
In 2013 14 these areas were: position in other areas of the financial statements.
Inventory and inventory valuation Effective risk management and internal control Consolidated Group inventories as at the year-end were 236.0 million.
One of the Boards key responsibilities is to ensure that management The accounting policy in respect of inventory and the valuation of maintains a system of internal control which provides assurance of effective inventory is set out in the Accounting Policies note to the Groups financial and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law statements on page 91.
The Groups provisioning policy is generally and regulation.
The Boards consideration of the materiality of financial and applied on a consistent, systematic basis recognising the level of sales other risks to the Groups business and reputation ensures that appropriate and level of inventory at the period end.
The review of this calculation, its controls are in place.
Consideration is also given to the relative costs and accuracy and the appropriateness of the end result with respect to the benets of implementing specic controls.
requirement to provide against slow moving and obsolete inventory was reviewed in detail.
The history of inventory write-offs beyond the provision made at the year-end is very low, reecting the operating procedures of the Group and the commercial relationships in place with its supplier partners and, as such, management continue to believe that the systematic application provides a result which is consistent with its judgement on the provision required.
The Audit Committee agrees with this assessment.
Adjusted items and profit and loss treatment In the first and second half the Group reported adjusting items.
The details of these adjusted items are set out in note 2 of the financial statements.
The approach for the identication and disclosure of exceptional costs is applied consistently and the costs identied were examined carefully to establish that they were not normal operating costs and that the recognition of adjusting items is balanced with both debits and credits being recorded.
Management believe that this presentation is consistent with the fair, balanced and understandable requirement and, as such, have presented these items this way and reviewed the substance of the items being recorded in adjusting items.
indd 56 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 57 Assurance Risk management and internal control system features On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the Risk management system Internal control system effectiveness of: As well as the risks that The internal controls which provide t the systems of internal control, primarily through approving the management identify through the assurance to the Committee of internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the financial ongoing processes of reporting effective and efficient operations, controls for financial reporting of the annual, preliminary and half yearly and performance analysis, the internal financial controls and financial statements and a review of the nature, scope and reports of Audit Committee has additional compliance with law and external audit: risk identication processes, regulation include: t the management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment which include: t Formal authorisation process activity and internal audit reports on the process: and t Risk and control process for for investments identifying, evaluating and t any action taken to manage critical risks or to remedy any control t An organisational structure failings or weaknesses identied, ensuring these are managed through managing major business risks.
where authorities and During the year, business and to closure.
responsibilities for financial function leaders have operated The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the management and maintenance the process, which has been of financial controls are Groups systems of internal control during the year, which is in compliance co-ordinated by the Head of with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control Revised Guidance for clearly dened Internal Audit Directors on the Combined Code 2005.
It confirms that the necessary t The Code of Conduct which action plans to remedy identied weaknesses in internal control are in place t Internal and external audit outlines the expected standards reports, which comment on and have been throughout the year.
The Board also, where appropriate, of business compliance and ensures that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy controls to manage identied behaviour.
This Code is available risks and also identify new ones or mitigate significant failings or weaknesses identied from the review of to all employees and is a formal effectiveness of internal controls.
t A condential whistle-blowing part of the induction process The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and consolidation helpline and an email address t The anti-bribery and corruption available for employees to processes are designed under the supervision of the Chief Financial AB&C policies and officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of contact the CEO in confidence procedures and dedicated email financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of the t A quarterly process to collate hotline, designed to address Groups published financial statements for external reporting purposes in all contingent liabilities identied the specic areas of risk of accordance with IFRS.
by the business units and corruption faced by the Group Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting function heads.
This report is t Our comprehensive financial reviewed by the Disclosure cannot provide absolute assurance and may not prevent or detect all review cycle where the annual misstatements whether caused by error or fraud.
The Groups internal Committee and then by the budget is approved by the Audit Committee controls over financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated board and monthly variances financial information include policies and procedures that provide t A Tax and Treasury Committee are reviewed against detailed reasonable assurance that transactions have been recorded and which identies and manages financial and operating plans presented accurately.
Finance ofcers of subsidiary businesses of the the Groups risks for tax and t The Disclosure Committee Group are required to certify that the financial information they have treasury and provides an provided as part of the annual consolidation process has been properly where executive management annual conrmation to the Audit review and sign off business prepared and reviewed in accordance with instructions from the Group Committee that tax and treasury unit internal controls, including Finance Department.
policies have been implemented financial, compliance and Management regularly conducts reviews of the internal controls in place correctly and an efficient and operational controls effective system for internal in respect of the processes of preparing consolidated financial information and financial reporting.
During the year ended 2 February 2014, there were control is in place.
t A process of internal control self-assessment co-ordinated no changes to the internal controls over these processes that have or are reasonably likely to materially affect the level of assurance provided over by the Internal Audit team.
the reliability of the financial statements.
The statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation ofthe Annual Report and Accounts is on page 62 of the Directors report.
indd 57 24 04 2014 16:01 58 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Corporate governance report Actions undertaken during the year Remuneration Committee overview During the year the Committee met four times to consider a wide range The composition of the Remuneration Committee during the year was: ofremuneration matters.
These included: t Exercising its discretion to award a bonus of up to 10% under the Groups annual bonus plan Paul Withers Against a backdrop of challenging trading conditions during the year Andrew Dougal ending 3 February 2013 the Group did not meet its operating profit target for the annual bonus plan but did nonetheless achieve an industryDennis Millard leading return on sales.
In recognition of this, cash bonuses of up to 10% determined against achievement of personal objectives supporting the Peter Ventress from 01 10 13 strategy were paid across the Group in March 2013, with a corresponding award of up to 60% of the value of the cash bonus made under the Groups deferred share bonus plan DSBP.
Details of the cash bonus and DSBP awards made to Laurence Bain and Mark Whiteling can be found onpage 71 of the Remuneration report.
t Reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors and Paul Withers Chairman most senior level of management and the Chairman of the Boards fees The Committee members are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
There are a number of regular attendees at Committee meetings, including The Committee reviewed the performance of Laurence Bain and Mark Whiteling and received advice from New Bridge Street NBS, the the Group Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Board and the Chief People officer.
No individual is present when his or her own remuneration Companys appointed independent remuneration consultants, on market trends and executive pay at similar companies in the FTSE 250.
Having or fees are discussed or decided.
Steven Webb, the Group Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee.
re-aligned their salaries in 2012 when each took on their new roles, the Committee determined that salary increases of 2% should be awarded to Key objective: to develop policy on Executive remuneration and x the Laurence Bain and Mark Whiteling, in line with increases across the Group.
remuneration of individual Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board A similar exercise was undertaken in relation to senior managers within the and senior managers immediately below board level.
Remuneration Committee population and for the Chairman of the Board.
An average increase of 4.1% was agreed for the senior managers and Responsibilities: t To determine remuneration for Executive Directors and Executive 4.6% for the Chairman of the Board, following a review of fees across the FTSE 250 which revealed the Chairs fees to be signicantly below median.
Committee members consistent with the remuneration policy t Overseeing arrangements in relation to the Companys t To review and have regard to remuneration trends across the Group when setting remuneration policy for Executive Directors share plans The Companys share plans are key to rewarding high performance and t To approve design of and targets for performance-related pay for Executive Directors, approving any payments to be made based retaining key talent.
The Committee reviewed recommendations and approved awards under the Companys long term incentive plan during on performance the year.
The Committee also reviewed the potentially dilutive impact of the t To determine the fees of the Chairman Companys shares plans and determined that, where possible under the t To approve contracts of employment with Executive Directors plan rules, awards be settled on a net basis and, provided not prejudicial to participants or restricted under local laws, using shares held for this t To monitor the reward policies and structure for Senior Executives purpose by the Companys employee benefit trust.
The awards made andGroup as a whole to the Executive Directors during the year and details of the Companys t To approve the design of and oversee awards under employee available headroom under the rules of the share plans and investor guidance are on pages 73 and 75, respectively.
share schemes In addition, to ensure all eligible UK employees have an easy, accessible t To oversee changes to employee benefit structures way to acquire shares in the Company and align their interests with those t To consider risks to the Group as a result of remuneration plans.
of our shareholders, the Committee reviewed and approved the adoption The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available of a new UK Save As You Earn scheme, to be put to shareholders for approval at the Companys General Meeting in June 2014.
If the plan is on the Governance section of our website at www.
approved it will enable the Company to run this HMRC approved scheme for the next ten years.
t Implemented the new Directors remuneration reporting regulations The new Directors remuneration reporting regulations have come into effect since our last Directors Remuneration report was published.
In 2012 13, we chose to adopt early many of the proposals in the then draft regulations.
The response from our shareholders at our 2013 AGM was positive and in 2013 14 we have continued to engage with major shareholders on remuneration issues to assist us in formulating remuneration policy.
We will put this policy to a binding shareholder vote in June 2014.
That policy and our implementation of it during the year to 2 February 2014 is set out in the Remuneration report which commences on page 63.
indd 58 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 59 Other Committees The following Committees form part of the Groups governance framework, but are not Committees of the Board.
Digital Advisory Board DAB Key objective: to offer counsel to the Board and the Chief Executive officer on matters relating to the web and eCommerce.
Chaired by Thomas Reddin, the DAB brings together both internal and external eCommerce expertise to provide challenge and insight in this key strategic area.
Regular contributors include representatives from companies specialising in enterprise search and business intelligence applications and from web platform providers, as well as electronic design engineers.
Meeting quarterly, the DAB reviews major web developments, potential opportunities and threats for the Company online and evaluates new innovations and best practice from leading markets.
Disclosure Committee Key objective: to assist the Board in ensuring that its disclosures are accurate, complete and fairly represent the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
The Disclosure Committee is made up of the Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the Investor Relations Executive.
It met twice in 2012 13 to review the interim and preliminary results announcements, following validation and certication from individual executive managers.
Reports ofits proceedings, along with minutes of the Committees meetings, are provided to the Audit Committee.
Tax and Treasury Committee Key objective: to make recommendations to the Board on tax and treasury strategy and policy.
The Tax and Treasury Committee comprises the Chief Financial officer Chairman of the Committee, the Finance Director for Europe and Group, Group Tax Manager, Group Treasury Manager and the Group Financial Controller.
It meets once per quarter and provides recommendations to the Board on the Groups strategy and policy on tax and treasury matters.
This includes risk identication, annual conrmations to the Audit Committee on the internal controls for tax and treasury, the monitoring of KPIs and approval of intra-group loans.
