Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 81 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee considers the structure, size, composition and succession needs for the Board and its Committees.
It also has oversight of succession planning and training and development programmes for senior management.
The Committee comprises each of the non-executive directors, the Chief Executive and is chaired by me.
David Bamford and Anne Marie Cannon, our newest non-executive directors, joined the Nomination Committee with effect from their respective start dates during 2014.
It has been a busy year for the Committee, with activity particularly in the succession planning and development arena expected to develop further during 2015.
The Committee held two formal meetings in 2014 and I also kept Committee members updated between meetings throughout the process leading to the appointment of Tony Mike Welton Durrant as Chief Executive and Richard Rose as Finance Director.
More detail regarding Chairman and Chairman the work of the Committee during the year is set out below.
of the Nomination Committee Executive Director Succession Chief Executive Simon Lockett confirmed his intention to step down as Chief Executive in February 2014 and agreed to continue in the role until a suitable successor had been appointed.
The Committee agreed a specification for the role of Chief Executive, identifying the key skills and experience required to lead the organisation forward.
The Committee considered whether there were any suitable internal candidates for the role: three internal candidates were agreed upon for interview alongside external candidates.
Korn Ferry, an external search consultancy which is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, was appointed to conduct the external search element of the recruitment process.
Korn Ferry has no other connection with the company.
Korn Ferry conducted an extensive external search process and then compiled a list of external candidates matched against the specification and against which the internal candidates could be benchmarked.
The shortlist was agreed, and each candidate interviewed, by the Committee.
The Committee then held a formal meeting at which it was agreed that Tony Durrant, the then Finance Director, be proposed to the Board for election as Chief Executive, a proposal which was fully endorsed by the Board.
This then left a vacancy for the role of Finance Director.
Finance Director The Committee considered the results of prior internal succession planning processes from which both an internal and external candidate had been identified as possible candidates for the role of Finance Director.
Richard Rose, an external candidate who had been identified in earlier succession planning reviews, and was known by the Board, was invited to interview with Committee members.
The Committee unanimously agreed that Richard Rose would be an excellent candidate for the role of Finance Director and proposed his appointment as Finance Director to the Board to which the Board agreed.
Executive succession planning and leadership development During the year the Committee conducted a review of the current Executive Committee membership and structure and discussed future possible changes and successors.
The Committee also reviewed the approach to development of employees identified both within succession plans for key roles and wider high potential employees.
In view of the change in Chief Executive during the year and at his recommendation, the Committee agreed that a refreshed succession planning exercise would be undertaken in 2015, to include the Executive Committee and business unit and country managers.
In conjunction with this succession planning work, an assessment of skills gaps will be completed and a programme for the development of selected individuals will be agreed and implemented.
Non-executive succession planning The Committee reviewed a skills matrix for the Board, to assist in mapping the spread and strength of skills and experience of current members: the skills were then mapped against the desired balance in view of the strategic objectives of the company and anticipated skills required.
Further work will continue on this in 2015 so that as and when a new appointment is made, the analysis can assist in drawing up role and capability descriptions for any vacancy that arises.
Board and Committee composition The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees during the year, taking into account the need to balance continued membership alongside a desire to keep the membership of committees refreshed.
In view of the experience of our most recently appointed non-executive directors, David Bamford and Anne Marie Cannon, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Board the appointment of David Bamford to the Remuneration Committee and of Anne Marie Cannon to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board approved the appointments.
82 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Diversity The Board fully embraces a culture based upon equal opportunities in the workplace.
Further detail regarding our commitment to providing staff with fair and competitive terms of employment and safe working conditions is included in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 60.
At the Board level, we are committed to ensuring that the process for all Board appointments is conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
When preparing for a new Board appointment, external search companies are requested to prepare a short list which takes into account the capabilities, skills and experience required for the role, as well as diversity of the Board in its widest sense, including gender diversity.
The Board considers the proportion of women on the Board as part of its assessment when selecting a candidate for a Board position.
We currently have two female non-executive directors, Jane Hinkley and Anne Marie Cannon, on a Board of 12 which equates to 17 per cent.
The Committee reviewed its approach to gender diversity on the Board during the year and chose to maintain its practice of embracing diversity in all its forms without setting any measurable objectives relating to gender diversity.
The Board fully supports the development of female talent in the same way that we encourage all employees to embrace development opportunities.
During the year, two female members of our senior management team attended an event hosted by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills, intended to introduce female senior management to the chairmen and directors of other FTSE 350 boards to increase the number of females in the pipeline for non-executive positions.
Committee terms of reference review The Committee reviewed its terms of reference in 2014 and minor amendments were proposed to the Board for adoption, largely reflecting a best practice approach for board appointments and reporting duties of the Committee.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available at www.
com As we look forward to the year ahead, the Committee will continue to focus its efforts on succession planning and the development of our employees, making sure that our workforce is best positioned to take the company forward and deliver the companys strategic objectives.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee Mike Welton Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee 25 February 2015
