68 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance statement This report, together with the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit and Risk Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, describes the manner in which the company has applied the main principles of governance set out in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code of September 2012 the Code and complied with the individual Code provisions.
It is the Boards view that the company has fully complied with the Code throughout 2014 save for the following provision: B.
1.2 which stipulates that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Subsequent to the unexpected death of Professor David Roberts in July 2013, the balance of non-executive directors did not comprise half of the Board.
1.2 recommenced with the appointment of Anne Marie Cannon to the Board on 1 February 2014 and was further strengthened with the appointment of David Bamford on 1 May 2014.
The UK Corporate Governance Code was updated by the FRC in September 2014 the 2014 Code : it takes effect for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The Board conducted a review of the companys compliance with the 2014 Code in December 2014 and we will report our compliance against the 2014 Code in next years annual report.
Introduction from the Chairman Dear Shareholder Your Board is committed to the highest standards of stewardship and governance and aims to create a culture which demands the same commitment and performance in all our business activities.
Good governance provides a framework that allows the right decisions to be taken by the right people at the right time.
The information provided in this report, and in conjunction with the reports from each of the Board committees, will help you to understand how the company has been run, risks managed, controls monitored, and how key decisions have been taken over the past year.
This report also includes information regarding the Board and committee effectiveness review undertaken during the year and I am pleased to report on the outcomes and actions arising from the review below.
Mike Welton, Chairman Leadership The Board, Board committees and management structure within the group is set out in the following diagram and explained in further detail below: Board of Directors The Board provides leadership to the group with a view to delivering long-term value to shareholders and other stakeholders.
It sets the strategy and oversees its execution within an agreed financial framework, ensuring that risk is appropriately managed.
Chief Executive Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Considers Board and Monitors the integrity of Ensures that there is an committee structure, the companys financial appropriate reward strategy composition and succession statements and the overall in place for executive planning as well as oversight fairness of the Annual Report directors with the intention Executive Committee of succession planning and and Financial Statements, of aligning their interests Supports the Chief Executive development of senior oversees the companys with those of shareholders.
with the development and management.
relationship with the auditor This committee also implementation of group and assesses the effectiveness oversees reward strategy strategy, management of the of the audit, and keeps under for senior management.
operations of the group review the effectiveness of the including succession groups risk management and planning, financial planning, internal control systems and risk management, internal the programme of reviews control, HSES and coordinated by Group corporate responsibility.
Board committee Functional Business Units Full reports from each of the Board committees are Oversight included in this Annual Report on pages 76 to 119.
London Projects Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 69 The Board The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible and accountable to our shareholders for the long-term success of the group.
The Board sets the companys strategic objectives and ensures that they are properly pursued within a sound financial framework with major risks actively monitored and managed and with health, safety, environment and security HSES borne in mind at all times.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of our shareholders at the heart of the Boards decision-making.
As at 31 December 2014 the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, four other executive directors and six independent non-executive directors.
On 1 February 2014 Anne Marie Cannon joined the Board as an independent non-executive director.
David Bamford joined the Board as an independent non-executive director on 1 May 2014.
Biographical details of each director in service as at 25 February 2015, including membership of Board committees, are set out on pages 66 and 67 as well as in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Code, all directors stand for annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are laid out in the Policy Report of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive, which has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing.
The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive director.
His key responsibility is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role including maintaining effective communications with our shareholders.
Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
This is effected through meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day running of the groups operations, for applying group policies including HSES and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
He plays a pivotal role in developing and reviewing the strategy in consultation with the Board and in executing it with the support of the Executive Committee.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy and resource, including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of executive management and to monitor the performance of the management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets.
In meeting this responsibility, the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present, and the non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
The non-executive directors must also be satisfied with the integrity of the groups financial information and with the robustness of internal control and risk management systems.
The non-executive directors are also responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors and have a key role in succession planning, the appointment of and, where necessary, removal of executive directors.
We require that our non-executive directors are free from any relationship or circumstances that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers each of the non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three years subject to annual re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director.
The terms and conditions of their appointment are made available for inspection.
Letters of appointment set out an expected time commitment, and all non-executive directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively and any significant other business commitments are disclosed to the Board prior to appointment.
Changes to such commitments are disclosed to the Board on an on-going basis.
Where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors, directors have access to independent professional advice at the companys expense.
70 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Board continued Senior independent director Joe Darby is the companys senior independent non-executive director.
He is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors.
The senior independent director is responsible for leading the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance and this is discussed further on page 72.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and its committees and between senior management and the non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary also plays a pivotal role in facilitating the induction of new directors and assisting with the on-going training and development needs of Board members as required.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
How the Board operates The Board has a structured programme of agendas for the year, ensuring all matters are considered during the year with sufficient time for discussion.
The programme is structured to include: strategic issues, including setting the strategy and performance in executing the strategy: finance matters: investor relations and corporate reporting: Board committee related activity including matters requiring Board sanction: and corporate governance matters.
The Board meets at least six times each year and in addition an update conference call takes place in the months when no formal meeting is scheduled.
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary based on the annual programme with any additional matters included as and when they arise.
Board members receive a monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on progress against objectives and the management of business risks including HSES matters.
During the year the Board held one of its meetings overseas to combine site visits with our operations in Singapore and Jakarta.
B Bo oa ar rd d c co om mp po os siit tiio on n Length of tenur Length of tenure e B Bo oa ar rd d e ex xp pe erienc rience e 8% 8% 3 ye 3 y yea ars Non-executive O Oiill & & & G Gas 25% chairman E En ne er rg gy y 33% Executive 3 - 6 ye 3 - 6 ye 6 ars F Fiin na a an nc ce 50% 50% directors 42% 59% Non-executive 25% 7 - 10 ye 7 - 10 y 0 y ars Oth Othe e er in r industry directors as at 25 February 2015 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 71 How the Board operates continued A formal schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found on the companys website www.
The schedule is reviewed by the Board regularly.
Key matters reserved for the Board are the consideration and approval of: Corporate strategy Overall direction and strategy of the business New country and or business entry Acquisition or disposal of interests Finance Group debt and equity structure Budget Expenditure Major capital expenditure and budgets Development plans and projects Major acquisitions Risk management Recognising high impact business risks and risk mitigating strategies Internal control systems in respect of finance, operations and HSES Corporate governance The groups corporate governance and compliance arrangements Succession planning and appointments Appointment and removal of directors and officers of the Board Appointment and removal of external auditor, brokers and advisers to the company Board committees The Board has established Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board which can be found on the companys website www.
The Company Secretary provides advice and support to the Board and all Board committees.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary.
The number of meetings of the Board and its committees during 2014, and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Ad hoc Number of meetings held 644 4111 Current directors Robin Allan 6 6 2 4 2 David Bamford 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 Anne Marie Cannon 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Joe Darby 5 6 3 4 4 4 4 4 0 1 1 1 0 1 4 Tony Durrant 6 6 3 4 1 1 0 0 Neil Hawkings 6 6 4 4 Jane Hinkley 6 6 4 4 4 4 1 1 0 1 1 1 David Lindsell 5 6 3 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 0 1 1 1 Andrew Lodge 6 6 4 4 Michel Romieu 6 6 3 4 4 4 1 1 0 1 5 Richard Rose 2 2 0 0 Mike Welton 6 6 4 4 1 1 1 1 Former director 6 Simon Lockett 3 3 4 4 0 0 0 0 Notes: 1 indicates the number of meetings the member was entitled to attend.
2 David Bamford was appointed to the Board and the Nomination Committee on 1 May 2014 and to the Remuneration Committee on 14 November 2014.
3 Anne Marie Cannon was appointed to the Board and the Nomination Committee on 1 February 2014 and to the Audit and Risk Committee on 14 November 2014.
4 Tony Durrant was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 25 June 2014 upon being appointed Chief Executive.
5 Richard Rose was appointed Finance Director on 8 September 2014.
6 Simon Lockett resigned as a director of the company on 15 August 2014.
72 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board committees continued Executive Committee and management structure The Board delegates the day-to-day running of the group to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Executive Committee to assist him in this role.
The Executive Committee ExCo meets formally once a month and its membership comprises each of the executive directors, the Group Development and Operations Manager, Garry Stoker, the Group Strategy Manager now BU Manager Norway, Nic Braley and the Corporate Services Director, Nigel Wilson.
In addition to formal monthly ExCo meetings, the ExCo holds fortnightly meetings with the Country Managers and in the alternate weeks, there is a fortnightly meeting with functional heads which includes, in addition to ExCo members, the Head of Business Development and additional members of the exploration team.
Quarterly Performance Review meetings are also held between ExCo members and the senior management team from within each of the business units and include risk management and HSES reviews as part of the overall review of each quarter and look ahead.
Delegation of authority Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the group as part of the business management system and through an authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, delegated authority levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
The manual was updated in 2014 to reflect any changes to the organisational structure.
Board performance evaluation The Board last undertook an externally facilitated performance evaluation exercise in 2013.
Key outcomes from the evaluation included a desire to increase the number of informal meetings of directors throughout the year.
Succession planning for Board and senior executive positions and talent management and capability initiatives were also identified as areas for increased focus going forward.
In 2014 it was agreed that an internal exercise would be carried out.
A timeline and process were agreed between the Chairman, committee chairmen and the Company Secretary, with the remit of the review agreed to include the Board, a project-based review, each of the Board committees, individual director performance reviews including a review of the Chairmans performance which was evaluated by the senior independent director, who conducted interviews with all the directors.
One-to-one interviews were also held between each director and the Chairman to complete the process.
Detailed surveys were compiled for each review topic with input from all relevant internal stakeholders as to the key issues to be considered.
The questionnaires and interviews covered a number of key areas including strategy, succession planning, Board size and composition, risk management, Board support and the relationship between Board and management.
Although there was no explicit corporate responsibility component to the evaluation process, there were opportunities for directors to raise any concerns in this regard through the survey or interview process.
The project-based review was used to focus on the Boards role throughout a specific project during the year as well as the quality and timeliness of information flows to and from the Board in relation to that project.
The results of the evaluation were condensed into a report by the Chairman and discussed by the Board as a whole.
Key outcomes from the 2014 evaluation and actions taken are set out below: Outcome Action Board members agreed that it would be beneficial The Board and committee calendars for 2015 and 2016 have been revised to have further opportunities to meet, and have to make additional space for a rolling programme of presentations by informal presentations on specific subjects from, middle management alongside additional Board dinners, one of which will middle management.
be held with only non-executive directors present.
Succession planning should be a matter of A review of the current state of succession planning and talent management increased focus during 2015. was undertaken by the Nomination Committee in November 2014 with actions agreed for 2015.
Further detail is provided in the Nomination Committee report.
Internally, work is on-going to review short and longer-term succession arrangements for each senior role in the company, alongside a review of development needs for potential successors.
Board members agreed that the balance between The balance of agenda items will be kept under review throughout the strategic and operational issues at Board meetings year and non-executive directors are requested to provide on-going should be reviewed.
Board members requested more detailed updates Additional reporting on shareholder meetings is now included in the on shareholder meetings.
Following satisfactory performance effectiveness reviews, it was agreed that each of the directors be put forward for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM.
For any directors serving beyond six years, the performance review was particularly rigorous.
It was agreed that Joe Darby, David Lindsell and Michel Romieu, each having served over six years, continue to provide sound, independent judgement and make a significant contribution to the Board and its committees.
Andrew Lodge, Exploration Director, will be retiring with effect from 30 June 2015 and will not therefore be standing for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 73 Board appointments and development Premier is an international business that has to manage a variety of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important that the Board has the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet these challenges.
To this end, the Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
In selecting new directors, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Full detail regarding the Board appointment process including for appointments made during the year is contained within the Nomination Committee report and the Directors Report.
Induction, information and support New directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the company.
The induction process and material used was fully refreshed in 2014 for the new directors who joined in the year.
The induction programme consists of: a comprehensive briefing pack including our corporate governance manual which details the structure of the group, decision making processes and bodies and policies and procedures: an introduction to our resource centre for all directors including all external communications such as investor presentations, reports and corporate responsibility reports : and, a schedule of one-to-one meetings with each of the executive directors, members of senior management and external advisers.
Specific questions on induction and on-going Board training were included in the 2014 Board effectiveness evaluation survey.
Responses from new Board members regarding the induction process were very encouraging, with the rating of the programme being classed excellent by all new directors and positive feedback on the process and opportunity to meet one-to-one with all of senior management.
All non-executives have access to the companys senior management between Board meetings and the Board aims to hold at least one meeting each year in one of the business units to allow non-executives to meet and engage with local staff.
In addition, the continuing development of Board members is supported through deep dives into specific business areas as well as regular updates on changes to the legal and regulatory landscape.
Directors are also offered the opportunity to attend external training courses to further complement their skills and knowledge.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice at the companys expense where appropriate.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with new directors upon request or at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Conflicts of interest A director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the company.
Formal procedures are in place to ensure the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest of directors are operated effectively.
The Board is satisfied that during 2014 these procedures were enforced and adhered to appropriately.
Powers of directors and process for amending articles of association Detail regarding the companys articles of association and any amendment thereto, including powers of directors under the articles, is included within the Directors Report.
Risk management and internal controls in Premier The corporate governance process in Premier is designed to determine the nature and level of risk that the company is willing to take in pursuit of its strategy and to provide an appropriate level of assurance that any risks taken are soundly managed and that the system of internal controls is effective.
Risk management processes and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected.
Business management system Internal controls within Premier are governed by the Business Management System BMS.
This system is composed of the policies, standards, procedures, processes and guidelines for every function involved in carrying out Premiers business including Exploration, Development and Operations, Business Development, Finance, Health, Safety, Environment and Security HSES, Corporate Responsibility, Risk and other business support services.
Group corporate function management systems are complemented by local management systems within the business units which contain additional content specifically required in order to operate and manage the business under local conditions and in compliance with local laws and regulations.
Following significant technical upgrade to the system during 2013, there was active focus on content review during 2014.
The effectiveness of the BMS is a function of both the adequacy of the system and compliance with the system.
Premiers review programme includes reviews of the adequacy of and compliance with component business unit and functional management systems at appropriate regular intervals.
The annual cycle of monitoring in Premier culminates in the completion of the Corporate Governance Return which contains declarations by business unit and functional management confirming compliance with the groups BMS as well as identifying enhancements as part of a continuous process for improving the effectiveness of management systems.
Risk management Premier believes that risk management is just part of good management which leads to quality decision making and achievement of targets for growth of the business.
The risk management process is central to Premiers BMS and the groups management system has been developed in accordance with the risk management principles and guidelines of ISO 31000 Risk Management Principles and Guidelines.
The processes developed by the company cover all key elements of ISO 31000: 74 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Risk management continued Architecture Strategy Core process Continuous improvement cycle Risk protocols The core process for risk management lies at the heart of the system framework: Establish context Monitor Risk and review assessment Risk treatment This core process is used to manage the spectrum of risks which Premier faces from strategic, geopolitical and other external risks to operational, financial and organisational risk.
The context for risk management is established by development and communication of strategy, growth targets, team performance deliverables and KPIs.
A systematic process for identification and assessment of risk is undertaken across the company business units and functions.
Regular workshops are undertaken with input from independent consultants with specialist knowledge and from dialogue with our partners to assist with risk identification and assessment, and risks are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that new risks or exposures as a result of changes in the business or the business environment are captured.
A standard matrix of impact versus likelihood is used to assess risks at all levels in the organisation.
Appropriate consideration is given to risk dependency and amalgamation of similar specific risks across the organisation.
Risks are categorised according to a scale of Major, Medium and Minor and escalated to the appropriate level.
Risk treatment includes risk acceptance or tolerance and active risk reduction measures.
Risk appetite objectives are defined and action plans are implemented.
Particular attention is given to safety and environmental factors to ensure that residual risks are at a level that is as low as reasonably practicable.
The status of risks and progress with risk treatment plans are monitored continuously and reviewed periodically via performance reviews, workshops, audits and risk assessments.
The architecture of the organisation provides the framework for defining the accountability and responsibility for risk identification and management.
It links the Board and Audit and Risk Committee to the Executive Committee and functional and business unit management structure, and enables risks to be escalated and managed at the appropriate level.
The Group Audit, Risk and Public Affairs Manager is responsible for the risk management system and the overall running of the process.
The risk protocols are the policy, procedures and processes documented as part of the risk management system and key tools used in the process.
Since 2010 the Corporate Risk Register has been the primary tool for risk management in Premier.
The Register is a web-based tool which is updated at regular intervals.
The Register facilitates recording of functional, business unit and asset project risks, together with their assessment, definition of existing and new treatment plans for control and mitigation and assignment of responsibility at the appropriate level in the organisation.
A cycle of continuous improvement to the risk management system within the organisation is applied and regularly reviewed with both the Executive Committee via regional and functional performance reviews and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 75 Risk management continued A new risk workbench ARROW based on ISO 31000 guidelines was developed in-house during 2014 to replace the Corporate Risk Register and will be implemented across the group in 2015.
ARROWs integration with Premiers BMS will enable risks and their controls and mitigating processes to be described and managed in a more complete and consistent manner and will also enable the programme of financial and operational control reviews to be prioritised further against the principal group business risks as ranked in ARROW.
Review The effective operation of internal control procedures is reviewed by planned management system and business control reviews.
An annual programme of review is agreed between functional and business unit management and approved by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The programme adopts a risk based focus and includes a review of management system effectiveness and control as well as targeting key operational, financial and organisational delivery milestones.
This process is designed, inter alia, to provide assurance to the Board that Premier is embedding effective risk management into its operations.
Significant findings from these reviews are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee which monitors the implementation of recommendations for control improvements.
A rolling three-year plan to cover all operations is in place.
In addition, where we are the operator, audits of joint venture operations are carried out by our joint venture partners.
Where one of our partners is the operator, we seek visibility of the most significant risks identified and managed by the joint venture partners.
The BMS, risk management processes and programme of reviews form the on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
It is regularly reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and provides the Board with reasonable assurance that appropriate controls are in place to provide effective management of business risks and to safeguard the groups assets against inappropriate use or loss and fraud.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Half-Yearly Report and other trading statements, all of which are available to shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors through meetings, presentations and conferences, general presentations to analysts and investors for the full-year and half-yearly results which are broadcast live via the companys website as well as other ad hoc investor events.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the directors primarily responsible for dealing with shareholders, ensure that other members of the Board receive full reports of these discussions as well as analysts and brokers briefings, and shareholder sentiment reports prepared by the Investor Relations team.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders in the event that they have concerns which contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or where such contact would be inappropriate.
Nonexecutive directors are expected to attend meetings if requested by major shareholders.
com also provides detailed information on the groups activities.
Information regarding the companys share capital, including detail of significant shareholders, is included within the Directors Report.
In accordance with current regulations, the company uses its website as its default method of publication for statutory documents to reduce printing costs and help benefit the environment.
All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, electronically or in paper format, as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or by post.
The company promotes the use of online shareholder services at www.
On this website, shareholders are able to access their shareholding and to update their address or submit queries on their account directly to the companys Registrar.
Shareholders also have the ability to vote online prior to the 2015 AGM.
The share portal also encourages shareholders to register to receive communications by email, rather than by post, thus further reducing the number of documents printed and distributed.
Shareholders who have actively registered receive an email notifying them when the company has added a statutory document to its website.
For each new registration processed, the company will donate 1 to Pure Leapfrogs carbon offsetting programme which supports carbon reduction projects in Africa, India and other developing countries further information can be found at www.
The company has posted guidelines on its website, advising shareholders of how to recognise and deal with potential share scams.
Shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of any unsolicited advice or offers and to only deal with financial services firms that are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority.
More information can be found in the Shareholder Information section of the Investors area of the companys website: www.
com Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM to discuss the progress of the group.
By order of the Board Stephen Huddle Company Secretary 25 February 2015
