76 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee is rigorous and effective in its role of monitoring: the integrity of the companys financial statements, and other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and the significant financial reporting judgements they contain: the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, including in particular the identification of emerging risks and the effectiveness of actions taken to mitigate them, together with the results of the programme of reviews of these systems and managements response to the review findings: the effectiveness and objectivity of the companys Group Audit and Risk function, the David Lindsell appropriateness of its work plan, the results of reviews undertaken, and the adequacy Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of managements response to matters raised: the appropriateness of the companys relationship with the auditors, the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process and the application of the Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors: and the enforcement of the companys code of conduct and the adequacy and security of its whistleblowing procedure.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board, and are available on the companys website at www.
com The members of the Committee are myself, Anne Marie Cannon, Joe Darby and Michel Romieu, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
All have been members throughout 2014 except for Annie Marie Cannon who was appointed in November 2014.
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Corporate Services Director, the Group Audit, Risk and Public Affairs Manager and representatives of the auditors.
Other executive directors or senior managers are required to attend when significant risk management or control issues relating to their area of responsibility are considered by the Committee.
During the year, the Committee meets privately with the Group Audit, Risk and Public Affairs manager and with the companys auditors.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and to make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Meetings The Committee is required to meet at least three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the companys financial calendar.
Activities during the year The Committee met four times in 2014 and has met once in 2015 to date.
In February 2014 the Committee reviewed the 2013 full-year results and the Annual Report and Financial Statements, discussed with the auditors their audit findings, and completed its annual review of the effectiveness of internal controls so as to be able to approve the statements on internal control and the management of risk in the Corporate Governance Report.
As part of this review, the Committee reviewed with management the hydrocarbon reserves reporting process.
In completing its review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls the Committee discussed the specific operational issues that had arisen in 2013 and significant risks foreseen for 2014.
The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and the independence of the auditors as a basis for considering their reappointment, and reviewed its own effectiveness.
At its June meeting the Committee discussed the implications of changes in the groups risk profile since its previous meeting, the status of the programme of risk management and business control reviews, and proposals to replace the Corporate Risk Register with a more powerful and fit-for-purpose risk management system.
This new system, ARROW, see below integrates with technology architecture components that have been developed in-house and deployed at Premier over the past two years including the group human resources and Business Management Systems.
The Committee also discussed significant health and safety incidents including a fatality on a contracted support vessel in Indonesia resulting from a collision with a tanker, and the outcome of the fatal accident enquiry relating to the death of a diver in 2011 in the course of a diving operation being carried out from the Balmoral platform.
The status of information security in the group was reviewed and the Committee requested that it be kept updated on this subject.
In August the Committee reviewed the half-year results and discussed the auditors report on their review of the half-year report.
The Committee also discussed the Financial Review Councils findings from its inspection of the audit practice of Deloitte LLP, the companys auditors, and noted the actions taken by Deloitte in response to the findings.
Staffing plans for the finance function during the 2014 financial reporting process, the appointment of the new Finance Director and the recruitment process for the new Group Financial Controller were discussed.
The Committee also received an update on major business risks, risk management and business controls reviews, and the new risk analysis and reporting system.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 77 Activities during the year continued In December the Committee considered accounting and reporting issues relating to the full-year results and the auditors work plan, reviewed and approved the proposed audit fee, reviewed the status of the 2014 risk management and internal control reviews, focusing on the significant findings and actions, and reviewed and approved the scope of the outline 2015 plan for such reviews steered by the principal business risks faced by the group.
The Committee took note of a number of geopolitical and external economic uncertainties, notably oil and gas prices, with the potential to impact group business objectives during 2015.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the companys policies on provision of non-audit services by the auditors, employment of former employees of the auditors, and share dealing and inside information.
At its February 2015 meeting the Committee reviewed the 2014 full-year results and the Annual Report and Financial Statements, discussed with the auditors their audit findings, and completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal control systems so as to be able to approve the statements on risk management and internal control in the Corporate Governance Report and to report to the Board that, in the Committees view, the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
In completing its annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, the Committee reviewed the close-out of the 2014 risk management and internal control reviews and was briefed on the corporate governance returns for 2014.
Non-compliance with certain budgetary control procedures in the North Sea business unit was reported in the returns.
Remedial action, including increased monitoring of compliance, has been taken.
Risk management and internal control The Committee continues to be responsible for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the groups risk management process designed to identify and mitigate the principal risks facing the group.
There is an on-going process of refinement and embedding of risk management best practice through the group in accordance with the principles and guidelines set out in ISO 31000.
Risk management and internal control in the group is discussed more fully in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 73 to 75.
Since 2010 the Corporate Risk Register has been the principal record of information about identified risks and the controls and mitigations in place to manage them, at departmental, asset project, business unit and corporate function levels.
During 2014 a new risk workbench, ARROW, was developed in-house for group roll-out, replacing the Corporate Risk Register, in 2015.
ARROWs integration with Premiers other management systems will enable risks and their controls and mitigating processes to be described and managed in a more complete and consistent manner and the programme of financial and operational control reviews to be prioritised further against principal group business risks as ranked in ARROW.
ARROW allows risks assessed to have a significant potential impact which can be measured in terms of effect on net present value or other severity of consequence and a higher likelihood of occurrence to be flagged and referred automatically up to the next level s of management, enabling more effective top-down monitoring of risk.
Group Audit and Risk An annual risk-based programme of reviews is proposed to the Committee following discussion by Group Audit and Risk with functional and business unit management.
There are three levels of review as follows: Level 1: local internal management team review e. g. business unit manager site safety review Level 2: group function review of business unit or asset project e. g. drilling preparedness review, project safety review Level 3: external third party certification e. g. oil and gas reserves certification, ISO OHSAS certification.
The Committee considers and approves the programme, and monitors and reviews the scope and results of the reviews carried out at each meeting, receiving reports covering progress against plan, significant findings and the action plans in place to address them.
48 reviews of aspects of risk management and internal controls in operations and corporate functions were carried out during the year.
Of these, six reviews were carried out at Level 3 external, independent assessors, 40 were at Level 2 group functional managers or their proxies reviewing activity at business unit or asset project level, and two were at Level 1.
In reviewing the findings from these reviews, the Committee noted that the work carried out had been increasingly directed towards the groups principal risks, thereby providing assurance to the Committee on key issues and challenges facing the group.
Recommendations to improve internal controls and or to mitigate risks were agreed with the relevant business unit or corporate function after each review and progress in implementing the recommendations was monitored by Group Audit and Risk.
78 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued Financial reporting The Committee reviewed the 2014 half-year and full-year financial results announcements and 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements with the Finance Director and Group Financial Controller and considered the findings from the auditors review of the interim results and their audit of the 2014 financial statements.
The areas of focus for the Committee included consistency of application of accounting practices and policies: compliance with financial reporting standards and stock exchange and legal requirements: the appropriateness of assumptions and judgements in items subject to estimation: the going concern assumption: the clarity and completeness of disclosures in the financial statements: and, in relation to the Annual Report and Financial Statements, whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considered in particular the following major items that require significant judgement and estimation in preparing the 2014 financial statements: Going concern In view of the current weakness in oil and gas prices, the Committee reviewed in detail managements projections of the groups liquidity position and compliance with its financial covenants within its borrowing facilities for the next 12 months.
Key assumptions in the projections include those related to oil and gas prices during the period, cost saving initiatives and portfolio management options.
The key assumptions were assessed and challenged by the Committee.
At 31 December 2014 the group had significant headroom on all its financial covenants and the projections indicate that the group will be able to operate within the requirements of its existing borrowing facilities and will have sufficient financial headroom throughout the forecast period, although the Committee noted that in the event of further sustained falls in oil and gas prices and or delays in realising certain of the portfolio management opportunities, a breach of covenants might occur towards the end of the 12 month period that would require appropriate action to be taken with the support of the companys long-term banking relationships.
The Committee was satisfied that an appropriate degree of caution had been applied in exercising the judgements needed in making the assumptions and estimates, and concluded that the statement on-going concern in the Financial Review on page 52 was fair and balanced.
The Committee was therefore satisfied that it is appropriate for the group to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2014 financial statements.
Recoverability of Intangible Exploration and Evaluation E&E assets The Committee satisfied itself by reference to the groups business plan and discussion with management that, in respect of all exploration and evaluation assets, either commercially viable resources have been discovered or substantive expenditure on further exploration and evaluation activities in the specific area is budgeted or planned.
Details of the groups E&E assets are provided in note 8 on page 148.
Oil and gas reserves Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges are principally measured based on managements estimates of proved and probable oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved and probable reserves are also used in the determination of impairment charges.
Proved and probable reserves estimates are based on a number of underlying assumptions including future oil and gas prices, future costs, oil and gas in place and reservoir performance, all of which are inherently uncertain.
The Committee considered reports from management on the process applied to calculate the reserves estimates, addressing in particular the extent to which the methodology and techniques applied by the company were generally accepted industry practice, whether the methodology and techniques applied were consistent with those applied in prior years, and the experience and expertise of the managers who prepared and reviewed the estimates.
The Committee noted that estimates of the groups oil and gas reserves prepared by independent reservoir engineers were marginally higher than managements estimates.
The Committee discussed with management the main reasons for the difference between the two estimates and was satisfied that it was appropriate to apply managements estimates for the purpose of preparing the financial statements.
Impairment of oil and gas properties As explained in note 9 to the financial statements, an impairment charge of US$784.4 million has been made in respect of several producing fields in the UK North Sea, Indonesia, Vietnam and Mauritania.
In order to determine whether an asset is impaired, management assess whether indicators for impairment exist for the groups producing and development oil and gas properties.
Where such an indicator exists, the future discounted net cash flows the company expects to derive from the asset must be estimated.
Such estimates are based on a number of assumptions including future oil and gas prices, the latest estimates of costs to be incurred in bringing fields under development into production, oil and gas reserves estimates, production rates and the associated cost profiles, and discount rates that reflect risks specific to individual assets.
In view of the current weakness in oil and gas prices, management prepared a detailed impairment report for the Committee setting out the key assumptions for each of the oil and gas properties.
The Committee challenged these assumptions and judgements to ensure that: they were consistent with those that were used by management for budgeting and capital investment appraisal purposes: production volumes were derived from the oil and gas reserves estimates discussed above, applying the same assumptions regarding future costs: and, they were reasonable within the context of the observed field performance and the wider economic environment currently being observed.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 79 Impairment of oil and gas properties continued The Committee noted in particular that, consistent with the practice followed in prior years and also with the long-term planning assumptions used by the company, assumed future oil and gas prices were based on forward price curves for two years and an oil price of US$85 bbl in real terms thereafter as explained in more detail in note 9 to the financial statements.
The Committee also noted that forecast field development costs and decommissioning costs were based on detailed and carefully reviewed current estimates.
The Committee discussed with management the review that was carried out of the longer-term plans for the life of those fields against which an impairment charge has been recognised and the factors giving rise to the impairment losses and was satisfied that the impairment charge recognised in the year was appropriate.
The Committee was satisfied that the rates used to discount future cash flows appropriately reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific assets concerned.
Provisions for decommissioning costs Estimates of the cost of future decommissioning and restoration of hydrocarbon facilities are based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology and price levels, while estimates of when decommissioning will occur depend on assumptions made regarding the economic life of fields which in turn depend on such factors as oil prices and operating costs.
The Committee therefore discussed with management the estimation process and the basis for the principal assumptions underlying the cost estimates, noting in particular the reasons for any major changes in estimates as compared with the previous year.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach applied was fair and reasonable.
The Committee was also satisfied that the discount rate used to calculate the provision was appropriate.
Further details on decommissioning provisions are provided in note 16 on page 154.
Taxation The group currently produces oil and or gas in five countries and is subject to complex hydrocarbon and corporate tax regimes in each of them.
Judgements must be applied in order to make provision for the amounts of tax that are expected to be settled.
Also, in order to continue to recognise the substantial deferred tax asset relating to tax losses in the UK, it must be probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which the tax losses can be utilised.
This in turn requires assumptions about future profitability.
The Committee discussed with management the status of discussions with relevant tax authorities and considered managements views on open issues, together with any related professional advice from external tax advisers.
Based on this discussion the Committee concluded that managements judgements regarding uncertain tax positions were appropriate.
The Committee also discussed with management their projections of probable UK taxable profits and noted that these projections, which were based on the same assumptions as those used in the asset impairment review and to assess whether the going concern assumption is appropriate, support the recognition of a deferred tax asset of US$971.7 million.
Further details of the deferred tax asset and the assumptions used to estimate the amount of tax recoverable in respect of tax losses and allowances are provided in notes 6 and 18.
External audit Audit effectiveness The Committee reviewed the auditors work plan at the start of the audit cycle, considering in particular the auditors assessment of the significant areas of risk in the groups financial statements, which for 2014 corresponded with the major areas of judgement identified by the Committee discussed above, and the scope of their work.
At the conclusion of the audit, the Committee discussed with the auditors the findings of the audit, including key accounting and audit judgements, the level of errors identified during the audit, the recommendations made to management by the auditors and managements response.
The Committee met privately with the auditors twice in 2014 and in February 2015 at the conclusion of the 2014 audit.
The Committee also assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, based on its own experience and on feedback from the corporate and business unit finance teams, and considered in particular: the experience and expertise of the audit team: the auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from the plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the quality of the auditors recommendations for financial reporting process and control improvements.
80 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued External audit continued Auditor independence and objectivity The Committee regularly reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
This review considers the overall relationship between the auditors and the company, based on feedback from the companys finance team and from the auditors, and the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors, and takes account of the safeguards established by the auditors against loss of audit independence, including rotation of the audit engagement partner.
The Committee believes that certain non-audit work may be carried out by the auditors without compromising their independence and objectivity.
The allocation of non-audit work is considered by reference to the companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, which can be found on the companys website.
The use of the auditors for services relating to accounting systems or the preparation of financial statements is not permitted, and neither are various other services, such as valuation work, which could give rise to conflicts of interest or other threats to the auditors objectivity that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level by applying safeguards.
The Committee believes that there is non-audit work such as certain assurance and advisory services that may be best performed by the auditors as a result of their unique knowledge of the company.
Any material non-audit work of this nature requires approval by the Committee.
The Committee approves the fees for the audit and half-yearly review after reviewing the scope of work to be performed, and reviews the scope and fees for non-audit assignments awarded to the auditors to satisfy itself that the assignments concerned did not give rise to threats to the auditors independence and objectivity.
Details of audit and non-audit fees in the current year are provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
Deloitte are required to confirm to the Committee that they have both the appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members of the company.
The Committee also requires the auditors to confirm that in providing non-audit services, they comply with the Ethical Standards for Auditors issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2014.
In accordance with the Ethical Standards for auditors, the audit engagement partner rotates at least every five years.
The current audit engagement partner has been in the role for three years.
Audit appointment The Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors each year.
Based on its review of the effectiveness of the 2014 audit and of the independence and objectivity of the auditors, the Committee concluded that the auditors effectiveness and independence has not been impaired in any way.
The Committee has reported accordingly to the Board and recommended that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP be proposed to shareholders for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Deloitte were initially appointed auditors of the company in 2004 and the audit has not been put out to tender since that date.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 introduced a provision requiring FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years, or to explain why they have not done so, although with transitional provisions that allow the company to defer a tender for a number of years.
The Competition and Markets Authority has subsequently made mandatory from 2016 onwards the requirement to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years and the associated transitional provisions require us to have conducted an audit tender process no later than for the year ending 31 December 2017.
The Audit and Risk Committee is currently planning to conduct an audit tender process in late-2016 early-2017.
Committee evaluation The performance and effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Board performance evaluation process and the Committee also carried out a detailed self-assessment.
The Committee was considered to be operating effectively and in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees.
On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee David Lindsell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 25 February 2015
