57 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Report on Corporate Governance The Board is committed to meeting the standards of good Corporate Governance as established by the Financial Reporting Council.
Inrespect of the year ended 31 May 2014, the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code applied to the Company.
The Code is publiclyavailable on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
This report, together with the Annual Report on Remuneration in respect of remuneration matters, describes how the Board applied the Code during the year underreview.
Board evaluation Composition and independence The size of the Board allows individuals to communicate openly and to make a personal contribution through the exercise of their individual skills and experience.
As at the date of this report, the Board of Directors has nine members comprising the Non-executive Chairman, theChief Executive, two other Executive Directors and five other Non-executive Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 35 to 36.
During the year, Simon Heale retired from the Board and Caroline Silver was appointed .
The Non-executive Directors have been appointed for their specific experience and expertise and are all considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr Harvey is a Non-executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc, which acts as insurance broker to the Company, but the level of fees payable to Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc is not material and Mr Harvey does not participate in any way in the provision of services: therefore the Board is wholly satisfied that it is appropriate to designate Mr Harvey as independent.
In addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, if at any time the Board or a Committee of the Board is considering any matter concerning Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc, it has been agreed that Mr Harvey will withdraw from that meeting until such matters have been dealtwith.
Mr Steel is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and in this capacity he is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Having completed his third three year term as a Non-executive Director, Mr Steel will retire from the Board at the 2014 Annual General Meeting on 23 September and will be succeeded as Senior Independent Non-executive Director by ProfessorArnold.
Non-executive Directors may serve on the boards of other companies provided that this does not involve a conflict of interest and that theappointment does not restrict their ability to discharge their duties to the Company in anyway.
As set out in the Report of the Directors, the Board has resolved to comply with the provisions of the Code and each Director will seek re-electionannually.
The Executive Directors service contracts and the letters setting out the terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
Diversity The Company supports the Code provision that Boards should consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when making appointments and is committed to ensuring diversity not just at Board level but also across the Companys senior management team, not least because it believes that the business benefits from the widest range of perspectives and backgrounds.
The Companys aim as regards the composition of the Board is that it should have a balance of experience, skills and knowledge to enable each Director and the Board as awhole to discharge their duties effectively.
Whilst the Company agrees that it is entirely appropriate that it should seek to have diversity onits Board, it does not consider that this can be best achieved by establishing specific quotas and targets and appointments will continue to be made based wholly onmerit.
Further details on diversity within the business are set out in the CSR report on page31.
Performance evaluation Effectiveness reviews of the Board and its committees are carried out annually.
In compliance with the Code principle that evaluation of the Board should be externally facilitated at least every three years, the 2014 review was facilitated by Boardroom Review Limited.
The results of that exercise have been reviewed by the Chairman of the Board and of each Board committee, discussed in a formal meeting and the recommendations recorded and actedupon.
The review process which was undertaken during the year concluded that all Directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry out their duties.
The performance of the Non-executive Directors is evaluated separately by the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Directors performance with guidance from the Chief Executive other than in respect of his ownposition.
58 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Report on Corporate Governance continued Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring its business objectives and maintaining a system of effective corporategovernance.
Six formal meetings of the Board were scheduled during the year and the Directors met on a number of other occasions as necessary to consider specific matters arising and to review and develop the Groups corporatestrategy.
The differing roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged and set out in terms of reference which have been adopted by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the Board and ensuring that it is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Chief Executive is responsible for coordinating the running of the business andimplementing Groupstrategy.
All Directors communicate with each other on a regular basis and have regular and ready access to members of the Groups management team.
Senior executives are invited to attend Board meetings to make presentations on specific matters or projects.
Board papers are prepared and issued to all Directors in good time prior to each Board meeting to enable Directors to give due consideration to all matters inadvance of the meeting.
During the year, the Board has maintained an understanding of the views of major shareholders through periodic face to face meetings and briefings from the Groupsbrokers.
The Board has adopted formal procedures for Directors to take independent professional advice where necessary at the Groups expense and each Director has full access to the services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and allapplicable rules and regulations are followed.
The Board has an approved and documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, health, safety and environmental matters and risk managementprocedures.
The Board has also adopted a formal induction process for Directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with operational management.
Training sessions have been organised during the year for the Board on matters considered relevant to the discharge of theDirectors duties and Directors may take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing development at the expense ofthe Group.
Committees of the Board The Board has established a number of standing committees to which various matters are delegated according to defined terms of reference.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on the Companys website www.
com and will also be available at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the principal standing committees of the Board are set out asfollows: Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and identifying andrecommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
During the year ended 31 May 2014, the Committee members were Mr Harvey Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Ms Edozien, Mr Kanellis, Mrs Owers, Mr Steel, Mrs Silver with effect from her appointment as a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2014 and until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2013 Mr Heale.
The Company Secretary is secretary to theCommittee.
During the year, the Committee undertook the process of identifying a new independent Non-executive Director, culminating in the appointment to the Board of Mrs Silver.
In considering this appointment, the Nomination Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepared a description of the role and capabilities required.
External search agencies were engaged and a number of short-listed candidates were then invited to interview with members of the Committee.
Other members of the Board were then given the opportunity of meeting with short-listed candidates, following which the Board approved the appointment of Mrs Silver.
During the year, the Committee also considered the most appropriate allocation of responsibilities in the light of the retirement of Mr Heale and, in particular, Ms Edozien was appointed Chair of the CSR Committee from 1 January2014.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The Committee members are Mr Steel Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Ms Edozien, Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver with effect from her appointment as a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2014 and, until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2013, Mr Heale.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
TheBoard has resolved that, upon Mr Steels retirement from the Board on 23 September 2014, Mrs Owers will be appointed as Chair oftheRemuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining specific remuneration packages for each Executive Director, the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
With the exception of the Non-executive Chairman, the fees of the Non-executive Directors are determined by the ExecutiveDirectors.
Further details of the Committees responsibilities and activities during the year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages50 to56.
59 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Audit Committee Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the Groups accounting and financial policies, its disclosure practices, internal controls, internal audit and risk management.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditor and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and itscosteffectiveness.
Composition of Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Professor Arnold Committee Chairman, Ms Edozien, Mrs Owers, Mr Steel, Mrs Silver with effect from her appointment as a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2014 and, until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2013, Mr Heale.
TheCommittee meets regularly with the external auditor.
The Chairman, Professor Arnold, is a qualified chartered accountant, and together with the other Committee members bring recent and relevant financial experience to the Audit Committee.
How the Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities In order to fulfill its responsibilities, the Committee meets at least four times a year and receives and reviews presentations and reports from Groups senior management, Group internal audit and the externalauditors.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Audit Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by management which provides details on the main financial reporting judgements.
The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditors on the half year and full year results which highlight any issues arising from the work undertaken in respect of the half-year review and year-end audit.
The specific areas of audit andaccounting risk reviewed by the Committeewere: 1.
The carrying value and recognition of goodwill and intangible assets The Groups goodwill and intangible assets related to our brands are a material balance sheet item.
Management performs an annual impairment review for goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives which uses key judgements including estimates of future business performance and cash generation, discount rates and long-term growth rates.
The Committee has reviewed managements analysis and are comfortable with managements conclusion that no impairment isrequired.
Pensions including obligations and assumptions The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are material to its financial position.
The amounts shown in the balance sheet are highly sensitive to changes in key actuarial assumptions.
The Committee has reviewed and agreed the appropriateness and consistency of these assumptions with management.
Full disclosure of the financial position of the defined benefit pension schemes is provided in note 23 to theaccounts.
Direct tax provisions The global and transformational nature of the Group means that it is periodically involved in structuring activities e. g. acquisitions, disposals and reorganisations which have complex tax related consequences in a number of jurisdictions around the world where the approach of the authorities is difficult to predict.
Where appropriate, provisions are made using managements judgement.
The Committee has reviewed the key judgements with management and considers the tax provisioning levels to beappropriate.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee were satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced andunderstandable.
Auditor independence Whilst the Audit Committee has not adopted a formal policy in respect of the rotation of the external auditor, one of its principal duties is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
Various factors are taken into account by the Committee in this respect.
These include the quality of the reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board and the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business.
This year, the Committee considered, as usual, whether to retain PwC as auditor and concluded that, in view of the quality of the service provided, the cost effectiveness of the work carried out and the firms capacity to provide service across all of the Groups global operations, it was appropriate to retain them.
The Committee last tendered the audit in2008.
The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditor.
The auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services which are not, and are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, providing it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work and is considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of the Group.
Assignments with a value of 50,000 or more must be submitted to the Committee and activities which may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditor must be submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out innote 4 to the financialstatements.
60 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Report on Corporate Governance continued Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The risk areas which the Committee reviews includes general business risk including risk arising out of the external financial environment, product safety risk, physical asset risk including factory, health and safety and environmental risks, IT and infrastructure risks.
At least once a year, the Board as a whole reviews any material risks facing theGroup and the output of this review forms the basis of the work undertaken by the Committee during theyear.
The Committee is responsible for developing and supporting the activities necessary to convert an approved framework of risk limits and risk appetite policies into an effective plan for implementation across the Group.
This is achieved by ongoing review to develop and implement plans to eliminate, reduce or transfer risk where practicable.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk management and control process within the Group and encouraging and supporting two-way communications in respect of risks issues within the business and with external stakeholders including shareholders, suppliers andcustomers.
The Group Risk Committee comprises Professor Arnold Committee Chairman, Mr Davis, Ms Edozien, Mr Harvey, Mr Kanellis, Mr Leigh, MrsOwers, Mr Steel, Mrs Silver with effect from her appointment as a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2014 and, until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2013, Mr Heale.
It reports formally to the Board after each meeting.
It has authority to obtain external advice as considered appropriate and the Board has resolved that it should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake fully itsresponsibilities.
The Board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk management process and the performance of the Group RiskCommittee.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee The CSR Committee is responsible for reviewing and developing the Companys corporate strategy to ensure that CSR is an integral part of the strategy and that the Groups social, environmental and economic activities are aligned.
The CSR Committee is also responsible for the development of policies on all key areas of CSR including the environment, health and safety, consumer safety, business conduct and ethics, employees and local community and charity.
Further details of the Committees terms of reference and activities during the year are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 20 to34.
The CSR Committee comprises Ms Edozien who was appointed Committee Chair upon the retirement from the Board of Mr Heale, Professor Arnold, Mr Davis, Mr Harvey, Mr Kanellis, Mr Leigh, Mrs Owers, Mr Steel, Mrs Silver with effect from her appointment as a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2014 and, until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2013, Mr Heale.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the CSR Committee.
The Committee reports formally to the Board after each meeting.
Attendance at Board meetings The number of scheduled meetings of the Board excluding such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address specific matters arising and of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year ended 31 May 2014, together with arecord of the attendance of the current Directors who are their respective members, is detailed in the tablebelow: Audit Remuneration Nomination Group CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Risk Committee Committee No.
of eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended Mr R Harvey 6 6 4 4 3 3 2 2 Mr G A Kanellis 6 6 4 4 3 3 2 2 Mr C G Davis 6 6 3 3 2 2 Mr B H Leigh 6 6 3 3 2 2 Prof J A Arnold 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 Ms N Edozien 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 Mr S J N Heale 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 Mrs H Owers 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 Mr J T J Steel 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 Mrs C Silver 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 No Director participates in meetings when matters relating to him are beingdiscussed.
Remuneration Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Annual Report onRemuneration.
61 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The financial position of the Group and liquidity position are described within the Financial Review.
In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes policies in relation to the Groups financial instruments and risk management and policies for managing credit risk, liquidity, market risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk, cash flow and interest raterisk.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and FinancialStatements.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement orloss.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 May 2014 and up to the date of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for Directors on the Code.
The processincludes: frequent communication between the Board and the Group Risk Committee and subsidiary management on all critical businessissues regular visits to operating units by the Board, head office management and Group internalaudit a detailed system of budgeting, reporting andforecasting regular review by the Board and Group Risk Committee of risk throughout the Group and the risk management processes inplace taking necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness of the internal controlsystem.
Throughout the year, the Board has carried out assessments of internal control by considering documentation from the Executive Directors, Audit Committee and internal audit function as well as taking into consideration events since the year end.
The internal controls extend to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
The basis for the preparation of consolidated accounts is as set out in note 1 to the financialstatements.
The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas for improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a defined fraud reporting and whistleblowing process which are issued to all employees within theGroup.
Relations with shareholders In its financial reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position andprospects.
The Company maintains a corporate website, www.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors and a subscription e-mail service is available which enables access to Company notifications and newsreleases.
The Company has periodic discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
The Board isalso kept informed of investors views through regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and investor opinionfeedback.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to present questions to the Board at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors make themselves available to meet informally with shareholders before and after themeeting.
General meetings of shareholders The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting of the Company is set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Resolutions put before shareholders at the Annual General Meeting will usually include resolutions for the appointment of Directors, approval of the Report on Directors Remuneration, declaration of the final dividend and authorisation for the Board to allot and repurchase shares.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting is on a show of hands and after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions aredisclosed.
At each Annual General Meeting there is an update on the progress of the business over the last year and also on current tradingconditions.
Compliance statement The Directors consider that the Company complied with the provisions of section 1 of theCode.
