Relationships STRENGTH THROUGH PARTNERSHIP Working in partnership with our suppliers Working in partnership with our peers QinetiQ is uniquely placed to help customers meet their New technology offerings can be taken to market with our peers.
challenges due to the know-how and independence of its people, This includes licensing our IP to reduce implementation and sales but we recognise that working in partnership with our suppliers, risk, with revenue dependent on third-party sales channels, and rather than working alone, is often the best way to meet these working with manufacturers to take technology to market challenges.
These partnerships also benefit other organisations in partnership.
in the supply chain, allowing small businesses and academic institutions the opportunity to access customers with whom QinetiQ has well-established relationships.
Read more about how QinetiQ works in partnership through the Weapons Science and Technology Centre on page 29.
Working in partnership with our customers Much of QinetiQs innovation arises from working closely with customers to address their requirements and is proven in partnership with them.
These customer-funded research and development programmes are mutually beneficial, in both our traditional and newer markets.
For example, many OptaSense applications for the downhole oil and gas market were developed in partnership with Shell.
Name: Phil Cork Role: Persistent Surveillance Business Manager The Modular Electronic Warfare System MEWS is a brilliant illustration of how QinetiQs know-how and IP can be combined with fresh thinking to achieve sales success.
Few companies share our rich heritage in electronic warfare, including our ability to rapidly take prototypes through to operational theatre.
However, one stumbling block has been being able to replicate and scale those successes, typically being able to manufacture in volume and enter new markets confidently.
When it came to taking our land electronic warfare capabilities to market, a decision was taken to partner with a proven hardware provider, namely L-3 TRL Technology.
Combining our electronic warfare processing and software expertise with L-3 TRLs 20 years defence manufacturing and their access to new overseas markets effectively fide-risked launching this remarkable product for both companies in 2012 13, with global sales ahead of plan.
Name: Sandeep Sid Gill Role: Technical Engineering and Product Lead Working in partnership to inspire a new generation QinetiQs future success relies on its ability to recruit and retain Reflecting 70 years of radar expertise, a team of scientists, designers and employees with the skills required to meet customer needs.
Our engineers achieved the near-impossible: creating a unique weapons detection system that predicts the impact of low trajectory rocket attacks, commitment to inspiring and attracting the next generation of better protecting personnel by giving them time to take evasive action.
scientists and engineers is reflected in our outreach programme Alarm was an R&D triumph: initial research funded by external sources which focuses on providing support in science, technology, transformed concept into prototype in eight months, delivering an engineering and maths STEM subjects.
This is primarily targeted unprecedented 100% success rate in tests.
Amazingly, it was only 18 at students aged 11 and older, and is delivered in partnership with months from blank page to delivering a qualified automated system that schools and recognised national organisations such as STEMNET people can assemble in three hours.
With its market-leading capabilities and Cyber Security Challenge UK.
being software-based rather than hardware-restricted, the products inherent flexibility enables rapid adaptation for a raft of military and civilian applications: from software tweaks to detect slower moving unmanned Read more about Cyber Security Challenge UK on page 39. aerial vehicles, to revised hardware set-up for easy deployment at government sites, oil installations and other locations.
18 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
