Corporate Governance Statement Relations with shareholders There should be a dialogue Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests with the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the with shareholders based on Chief Financial Officer CFO, assisted by the Investor Relations Director.
the mutual understanding of The Board as a whole is informed on a regular basis about the views of key shareholders, including their concerns.
The board as a whole Director reports to the CEO, and provides regular updates to the has responsibility for ensuring Chairman and Non-executive Directors by way of face-to-face briefings, email updates and the Executive Directors report that a satisfactory dialogue with which is included in the Board papers as a standing item.
The following information is included in these reports: UK Corporate Governance Code financial calendar and draft material: share price performance: Annual General Meeting the composition of the shareholder register: The UK Code notes that the Board should use the Annual General Meeting AGM to communicate with investors and encourage their feedback from investor meetings, including key questions: participation.
Holders of ordinary shares are invited to attend the covering sell-side analysts, their recommendations and Companys AGM each year and to ask questions.
The Chairs of expectations: and the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Risk & CSR and Security peer group news.
Committees are available at that meeting to answer any questions on the work of the Committees.
During the year under review, the The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness AGM was held in July 2013 and each member of the Board attended of its communications with shareholders and sets itself the target and was available to take questions.
of providing information that is timely, clear and concise.
Investor activity during the last financial year included: In respect of the 2014 AGM, the Company confirms that it will send the Notice of Meeting and relevant documentation to all shareholders at telephone briefings for analysts and investors in conjunction least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
For those shareholders with key financial announcements: who have elected to receive communications electronically, notice face-to-face presentations of full-year and half-year results is given of the availability of documents in the Investors section of where the Chairman and Directors were available for discussions the Groups website.
All shareholders will be entitled to vote on the with investors: resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, a poll will be taken on all of the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
live and post-event webcasts of key presentations: The results of the votes on the resolutions will be published on the investor road shows held in the UK and the US at least twice Companys website, www.
com, in the Investors section.
during the year: Website information investor days, briefings and ad hoc meetings on request, All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the where calendar and regulatory requirements allow: Annual Report, presentations to investors, AGM documentation, key re-launched web-based investor centre incorporating best financial information, regulatory news, financial calendar, share and practice and optimised for mobile devices: and dividend data and other significant information about QinetiQ in the Investors section of the Companys website, www.
The site also provides contact details for any investor-related During the year, new executive incentive arrangements were queries, by telephone and by email.
proposed and a consultation was undertaken with the Groups The Company continues to look at ways of improving the quality largest 20 investors, holding approximately 70% of the issued of its engagement with shareholders and to explore with investors share capital.
Further details can be found in the Directors any additional practical means by which it can give effect to the Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 92. requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship The Chairman proactively offers to attend meetings with key Code for institutional investors, and of the UK Code.
shareholders on a regular basis and the Chairman, the Senior Details of the Companys share capital, which are required to be Independent Director and Non-executive Directors routinely disclosed in accordance with rule 7.2.
6 of the Financial Conduct attend key financial calendar events and make themselves Authority FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and the available to meet shareholders as required.
Directors powers in relation to issuing and buying back shares can be found on pages 93 and 95 in the Directors report section of this Annual Report.
50 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information Leadership Every company should The Board of Directors has identified key objectives and responsibilities in respect of its stewardship of the Group as a whole.
be headed by an effective Board objectives board which is collectively To demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance in accordance with the UK Code to: responsible for the long-term ensure the continuing evolution and implementation of the success of the company Groups strategy to deliver value to all stakeholders: customers, employees and shareholders: There should be a clear develop challenging objectives for the business and monitor division of responsibilities management performance against those goals: at the head of the company provide a framework of effective controls to assess and manage risks, with clear expectations of conduct to the highest standards between the running of the of ethics: board and the executive provide support and constructive challenges to the CEO to promote the Groups success: responsibility for the running demonstrate leadership in management systems around health, of the companys business.
safety and environment: and UK Corporate Governance Code manage succession planning for the Board and the Groups executive management.
Key issues considered by the Board in the past year include: Roles and responsibilities a the strategic review of the US Services division: The Board of Directors: b strategy for the Group as a whole: is responsible for overseeing the Executive Directors management c succession planning: and of operations and, in this capacity, determines the Groups d the closure of the Companys UK defined benefit pension scheme.
strategic and investment policies: Further details are set out below.
monitors the performance of the Groups senior management team and organises its business to have regular interaction with a US Services strategic review key members of senior management: and The US Services strategic review has been one of the main items of Board consideration during the course of the year, from the is responsible for overseeing the management of the business announcement of the review in May 2013 to the announcement of the Group.
Its powers are subject to the Articles of Association of the outcome in April 2014, and will continue to be an area of focus and any applicable legislation and regulation.
Details of the activity in respect of the strategic review Operation of the Board and the outcomes from it can be found in the strategic report on For each meeting, the Board receives a written report from the CEO pages 2 to 47.
The Board oversaw this process by way of regular and CFO, together with a separate report on investor relations which updates from the Group Strategy Director, the CFO and key external is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers, and a report advisors and also by way of a Board sub-committee which met produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and regulatory regularly to oversee the developments and drive the progress issues that affect the Group.
The CEOs and CFOs Executive report of the review.
addresses the key strategic initiatives which have had an impact on the Group since the previous Board meeting, with particular focus on the progress of each of the businesses.
Other key areas of focus include health, safety and environmental matters: employee and organisational issues: corporate responsibility: the status of key account management customer relationship initiatives: the pipeline of potential bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments: and the post-acquisition performance of recently acquired businesses.
The Board also receives updates from key functional areas on an as needed basis, on issues such as HR, treasury, corporate responsibility, real estate, security, trade controls and pensions.
51 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued b Group strategy Matters reserved to the Board The Board views strategic growth as a key priority.
During the The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, year, the Board held its annual two-day strategy meeting at an which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the Board off-site location where the strategy for the Group as a whole was and its Committees during the annual business cycle.
The Managing Directors from each business attended the level of delegated authorities both financial and non-financial the two-day meeting and gave presentations on their respective available to Executive Directors and other layers of management in business areas.
The Board was able to meet both formally and the business, QinetiQs business ethics, risk management, and health, informally with business leaders, to assess potential future safety and environmental processes.
leaders and to understand the key drivers and risks including The Board devotes one entire meeting each year to consider strategy their mitigation for their business areas.
Further details can and planning issues that have an impact on the Group, from which be found in the strategic report on pages 2 to 47. the corporate plan is generated.
It is also regularly kept up to date During the course of the year, reporting on the progress of the on strategic issues throughout the year.
business units with their strategies is detailed in the Executive The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters which are Directors report contained in each Board pack.
In addition, the specifically reserved to it for consideration.
These include: Group Strategy Director attends Board meetings to provide an reviewing the annual budgets: update on progress against Group strategy, including an interim report to the Board on each business units performance against raising indebtedness: its material strategic goals.
granting security over Group assets: c Succession planning approving Group strategy and the corporate plan: Succession planning, both at Executive and Non-executive level, remains a key focus for the Board.
The Group HR Director gave approving the Annual and Interim Report and Accounts: presentations to the Board during the year on succession planning, approving significant investment, bid, acquisition including the tabling of succession planning charts for key senior and divestment transactions: executive roles, on the development of the Groups diversity policy approving HR policies including pension arrangements : and to agree the methodology for establishing metrics for measuring diversity across the Group.
The policy has been approved and the reviewing material litigation: and metrics will be established in 2015 for measuring progress against monitoring the overall system of internal control, the policy.
Further details on diversity can be found in the corporate including risk management.
responsibility and sustainability review on pages 36 to 41.
At a Non-executive level, the Board agreed details of the key competencies required to enhance the composition of the Board and those competencies have been used in the search for new Non-executive Directors.
d Pension scheme changes During the year, the Board was kept informed of developments in the review of the pension scheme arrangements which ultimately led to the closure of the defined benefit scheme, by way of presentations from the Group HR Director and the CFO.
Further details can be found in note 28 on page 139 in the notes to the accounts.
52 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information Committees Board Committees QinetiQ operates by way of two key Executive Committees and five The Board has established five principal Committees: the Audit principal Board Committees.
Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk & CSR Committee and the Security Committee.
Each operates within written terms of reference approved by the Board Board.
The full terms of reference can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at www.
com responsibility Audit Committee corporate-governance Pages default.
Where a Committee is Risk & CSR Committee not attended by the full Board, details of the key issues discussed, Nominations Committee and decisions taken, are circulated to all members of the Board Governance Committee after the relevant Committee meeting.
Remuneration Committee Given the size of the Board, and in the interests of full Board Operating Committee participation and transparency, the Board maintains a policy Security Committee of all-Director membership of Committees, other than where prohibited by the UK Code, statutory or Security Committee requirements.
A report in respect of each of these Committees Board Committee is contained in pages 58 to 68.
The details of each Committee Executive Committee members attendance at Committee meetings are set out in the table contained within each Committee report.
Details of the Executive Committees Groups reward and remuneration policies and payments, together During the year, the Operating Committee was responsible for the with the report of the Remuneration Committee, can be found day-to-day management of the Groups activities, with the exception in the Directors remuneration report on pages 69 to 92 which of QinetiQs US operations which were managed through the Proxy is incorporated into this governance statement by reference.
Board, as described in the section on page 61 headed Management and control of US subsidiaries.
The Operating Committee had a specific focus on the achievement of the Groups strategic goals in respect of growth and operational excellence.
The Committee membership comprised the Group CEO, Group CFO, UK Divisional MDs, HR, Business Development and Operations Directors.
From December 2013, the Group Strategy Director and the Group General Counsel were added as members of the Committee.
The Committee met on a monthly basis, and received weekly updates on key operational issues by way of pre-scheduled conference calls.
The Governance Committee was responsible for oversight of the risk management process and its implementation by the divisions and covers matters such as non-financial corporate objectives, targets and key performance indicators, approval of Operating Framework policy documents and the review of business risk registers and the Group Risk Register.
It reported via the CEO to the Risk & CSR Committee.
The Committee membership comprised the Group CEO, four UK Divisional MDs, the HR, Safety, Assurance, and Sustainability Engineering and Technical Directors and the Group General Counsel.
The Committee is scheduled to meet on a quarterly basis.
53 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
