professional advice is always sought.
In relation to tax MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE and value added tax TVA disputes as well as general tax matters, management has sought the expertise of external Appointed Number of advisors during the year, which has been provided to the to the meetings audit committee to help support its assessment of these Members committee attended matters.
1 K Voltaire chairman 1 August 2006 6 6 2 In terms of the directors remuneration policy, for CL Coleman 11 May 2009 3 3 providing services to the audit committee for the year, J Mabunda Lioko 3 May 2014 3 3 members of the committee were paid $35 000 each, or AJ Quinn 1 Nov 2011 6 6 a proportionate amount for those members who joined 3 during the year, and Dr K Voltaire, as chairman of the audit J Kassum 3 May 2014 3 3 committee, was paid $50 000, comprising a membership 1 fee and an additional $15 000 chairmanship fee.
These Dr K Voltaire will retire as chairman of the audit committee with effect from 4 May 2015 but will remain a member of the audit fees were paid in addition to the other fees and an award committee.
of shares made to each non-executive director as detailed 2 Mr CL Coleman resigned from the audit committee with effect on page 176 of this annual report.
3 Mr J Kassum will be appointed chairman of the audit committee with effect from 4 May 2015.
The primary role of the committee in relation to financial reporting is the Financial review, with key management and reporting Each of the four members of the audit committee is the external auditor, as applicable, an independent non-executive director.
The audit of the appropriateness of the annual report, Form 20-F, committee oversees the groups financial reporting quarterly financial reports and other published information and internal controls and provides a formal link with for statutory and regulatory compliance.
The committees the groups external auditors.
It performs its duties by views are reported to the board to assist in its review and maintaining effective working relationships with the board, the approval of results announcements, the annual report management and internal and external auditors.
Under and annual report on Form 20-F. the governance of the chairman, the audit committee met six times during the year to discharge its duties and Significant issues considered by the audit responsibilities.
Attendance of members of the audit committee in relation to the financial committee during 2014 is shown in the table above.
statements In planning the year-end audit and at the conclusion of The audit committee members have extensive experience the audit of the financial statements, the audit committee considered with management and the external auditors in relation to financial matters, as detailed in the the key areas of focus for the audit and their significance biographies on pages 16 to 17 of this annual report, and to the groups reporting of results and the degree of the board believes that this level of experience continues judgement involved in their evaluation.
The significant to be sufficient to meet the standards set by the United areas of consideration or judgement deliberated by Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code published in the audit committee in 2014, through assessment September 2012 the Code.
In the event that any issues of management reports to the audit committee and arise which are deemed outside the areas of expertise presentations by the external auditors, in respect of the of the members of the audit committee, independent annual report and financial statements related to.
Significant issue How the audit committee addressed it The assessment of the carrying value of The audit committee considered and scrutinised managements mining assets detailed assessment of the carrying value of mining assets and investments in joint ventures: and the underlying assumptions used As explained in notes 3, 9 and 10 to the in the impairment testing of the groups assets in support for their financial statements the group has incurred carrying value, including key judgements and estimates, LoM plans significant capital expenditure during and the analysis of assumptions used.
Key judgements and estimates the year.
The groups mining assets and undergo extensive internal review and challenge prior to submission investments in joint ventures represent a to the audit committee.
The audit committee was satisfied that the substantially material balance as well as assessment was appropriate and robust.
This review included having commercial significance to the various challenge over the gold price used, discount rates, LoM plans and projects and the long term plans of the operational assumptions and sensitivities.
The future viability and recoverability of these balances are underpinned by the groups Life of Mine LoM plans.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 157 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant issue continued How the audit committee addressed it The assessment of the carrying value of BDO LLP reviewed and critically challenged these calculations and mining assets continued audits the underlying economic models to satisfy themselves of the integrity of the impairment tests and the key estimates contained The LoM plans are supported by a number therein.
As this is a recurring area of judgement, BDO LLP provided of variables which are subject to various detailed reporting on these matters to the audit committee including significant judgements and estimates, their own assessment of key judgements and estimates made by including the gold price, oil prices, management along with sensitivity testing and analysis.
production, expenditure, inflation and discount rates used.
This continued to Having critically assessed the key assumptions, such as future gold represent a significant area of focus for the prices, the audit committee concluded no reasonable sensitivities audit committee, including the judgements would give rise to impairment: reflecting the groups strategic planning in relation to the assumptions underlying the and the proven and probable reserves being determined at a assessment of the carrying value, primarily $1 000 oz cut off.
being the sustainability of the long term business plans and the potential volatility in The audit committee reviewed and scrutinised the groups depreciation policy and its application, including the judgemental the gold price.
factors such as the application of asset commissioning and the In addition, the carrying value of mining determination of ore reserves attributable to key asset categories in assets and investments in joint ventures is the use of a units of production depreciation policy.
impacted by the groups unit of production depreciation charge, which involves a Following the assessment, the audit committee is satisfied as to number of key judgements including the the continued appropriateness of the depreciation policy and its allocation of assets to relevant reserves.
The carrying value and the recoverability of Management presented an assessment of the recoverability of TVA and the tax disputes in which the group the groups TVA receivables to the audit committee including the is currently engaged estimated timing for the recovery of amounts outstanding and, where appropriate, whether balances could be offset against future As detailed in notes 3, 7 and 17 in the taxes payable in accordance with the groups legally binding mining financial statements, the group is carrying conventions.
The audit committee interrogated managements significant TVA receivable balances and the assessment of the recoverability of the TVA receivables along with assessment of the carrying value and the the timing and were satisfied that the carrying values are recoverable.
This conclusion was based on the future corporate tax payment recoverability of the TVA receivables held by the group represents a significant area of profile at Loulo and history of cash receipts and the absence of focus for the audit committee.
disputed TVA receivables at Kibali.
The group is subject to a range of tax claims The audit committee received managements report on the position of and related legal action in the jurisdictions current tax claims including specifically the additional $190.0 million where it operates which have arisen in the of new claims in 2014 and a review of the arbitration status and the ordinary course of business.
The most legal foundation for the dispute of tax claims, along with external material claims being from the Malian tax expert advice in relation to these matters.
The audit committee, with authorities, including the Loulo tax claim.
management, reviewed in detail the reports and correspondence Certain of the claims from the Malian tax relating to the tax claims and arbitration case.
Management presented their view of the disclosure of tax claims and provisioning authorities are currently under arbitration.
to the audit committee for scrutiny.
The audit committee is satisfied that the evidence produced, both from internal assessment and from external legal and tax advice, supports the view that the material claims are wholly without merit or foundation in the context of the tax laws of the countries in which it operates.
Both matters are areas of higher audit risk and accordingly the audit committee received detailed reporting from BDO LLP on these matters.
BDO LLP reported on the results of the testing performed in respect of TVA and tax claims, including their critical assessment of the recoverability of TVA receivables in Mali and the DRC, managements judgements that the material tax claims are without foundation, as well as the appropriateness of the financial statement disclosures in respect of each area.
Capital expenditure, related controls and The audit committee received detailed reports on material capital areas of estimation expenditure during the period and challenged managements assessment of areas of estimation such as depreciation, asset During 2014 the group continued to make commissioning dates, production phase, opencast stripping cost significant investment in its mines and policy application and allocation of costs between operational and projects through capital expenditure.
The audit committee sought to assure itself magnitude and commercial significance of through the review of the assessment from internal audit over the capital expenditure, along with the related capital expenditure procedures and controls, including controls capital expenditure controls, allocation around authorisation, capital cost allocation and the application of the of costs and, where applicable, areas of groups accounting policies, that controls in place were sufficient.
estimation, continued to represent a key area of focus for the audit committee.
BDO LLP reported on their testing performed on the capital expenditure related controls and areas of estimation.
On the basis of their audit work, the external auditor reported to the audit committee no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
