Governance and nomination committee report The governance and nomination committee has oversight of the composition of the board and corporate governance.
Christopher Coleman Norborne Cole Kadri Dagdelen Jamil Kassum Chairman The committees function is to ensure the board comprises individuals with the necessary balance of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to be effective in discharging its responsibilities, and to have oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board, within its agreed terms of reference, on appointments to the board.
The terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
The committee also develops and monitors a process for evaluating the boards effectiveness and oversees the companys Code of Conduct which can be found on the companys website.
The governance and nomination committee also assists the board by: Regularly reviewing and evaluating the structure, size and composition of the board and making recommendations to the board with regard to any changes.
Identifying, evaluating and recommending, on merit against objective criteria, for board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
Making recommendations to the board with regard to membership of the audit committee and remuneration committee and any other of the boards committees in consultation with the chairmen of those committees.
Making recommendations on the constitution of the board to ensure there is an appropriate balance in terms of skills, knowledge, independence and experience.
Succession planning for directors and other senior executives of the company.
Assessing a directors potential conflict of interest and making recommendations to the board.
Making recommendations to the board concerning suitable candidates for the role of senior independent director.
The committee regularly invites other directors and advisors of the company to attend its meetings where the committee considers it appropriate.
The members of the governance and nomination committee and details of their respective attendance during the year are shown in the table on the following page.
Christopher Coleman Chairman, governance and nomination committee Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 191 GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION REPORT CONTINUED attributes a candidate should possess.
During the year MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS ATTENDED the governance and nomination committee did not use Number of an external search agency or open advertising in search governance of potential board candidates.
and nomination The committee met four times during the year and committee considered executive and non-executive succession Date appointed meetings planning, refreshment of skills of the board and the annual Member to the committee attended board effectiveness review.
1 NP Cole Jr 27 October 2007 4 4 2 Mr J Kassum was appointed as CL Coleman 3 November 2008 4 4 a non-executive director with Board K Dagdelen 30 October 2011 4 4 effect from 31 January 2014.
J Kassum 3 May 2014 3 3 refreshment Information relating to the appointment process for Mr J Kassum and his induction 1 Mr NP Cole Jr is the senior independent director.
programme was given in last years annual report.
2 Mr CL Coleman was appointed chairman of the governance and nomination committee on 6 May 2014 when Mr P Litard Following a review of the boards composition, the retired as chairman.
Between 1 January 2014 and 6 May 2014 committee conducted a search for a new non-executive Mr P Litard attended two meetings of the committee.
director to join the board.
Mrs S Ba-NDaw was identified as a potential candidate and she was invited to undergo an interview selection process with members of the In accordance with the companys remuneration policy board.
Subsequent to these interviews and feedback for more details of the companys remuneration policy from board members, Mrs S Ba-NDaw was appointed please see page 170 of this annual report members of to the board as a non-executive director with effect from the governance and nomination committee received the 1 March 2015 following the recommendations put forward following fees.
In addition to the awards of shares detailed by the committee based on her international and financial on page 190 of this annual report, a proportionate amount experience and detailed knowledge of working in Africa.
of the committee members annual fee was awarded for Mrs S Ba-NDaw visited the Tongon mine in February 2015 those members who joined during the year.
during which time she met with senior management and over the course of 2015 she will attend several seminars provided by the companys English, Jersey and United Member Fees States lawyers on a variety of corporate governance CL Coleman Received a fee for being chairman of topics as part of the companys non-executive director chairman the board and as such no further fees formal induction programme, which all newly appointed were paid to CL Coleman for any other non-executive directors undertake.
The focus of the services he provided to the company.
induction programme is to explain the dual listing of the The fee received by the chairman, in company and the implication for the operation of the his capacity as chairman, for the 2014 board.
Prior to being appointed chairman of the board All existing directors are encouraged to attend the and of the committee Mr CL Coleman induction programme when a new director joins the received a fee of $3 333 for services board, in order to develop their skills and keep abreast provided to the committee.
The board is provided with NP Cole Jr Received a fee for being the other training on an ad hoc basis in consultation with senior companys senior independent director the chairman and the company secretary.
The company independent and as such no further fees were paid ensures the necessary resources are available to allow director to NP Cole Jr for any other services this to occur.
he provided to the company.
The fee received by the senior independent The governance and nomination committee regularly director for the 2014 financial year was reviews the companys key policies and if necessary $85 000. makes recommendations as to any amendments it considers necessary or desirable.
K Dagdelen Received a fee of $10 000 for the 2014 financial year for services provided The board charter and the terms of reference of each of to the governance and nomination the boards committees are published on the companys committee.
The governance J Kassum Received a fee of $6 667 for the 2014 and nomination committee reviewed its terms of reference financial year for services provided at the committees February 2015 meeting and concluded to the governance and nomination that no amendments were necessary.
As detailed on page 151 of this annual report, at the When considering boards February 2015 meeting, when reviewing the rerecommendations for Committee election of directors the board took account of the fact that appointments to the board, the Mr NP Cole Jr and Dr K Voltaire will have served activities committee is mindful of the on the board for nine years as of 1 May 2015.
The necessary skills, knowledge and experience members of board, following recommendations by the committee, the board should have to support the strategic plans and considered the matter carefully and believes that both the development of the business.
The committee also these non-executive directors continue to demonstrate takes into account as part of its deliberations the boards independence in carrying out their roles in an objective intent to encourage diversity, including gender diversity.
The subject of independence will be kept under Candidates are sought who demonstrate the necessary review throughout 2015. independence and experience together with knowledge of the countries where the company operates.
The board also determined that each of the other Considering these criteria, the governance and nomination non-executive directors remained of the necessary committee leads the process of identifying potential independence to undertake the duties of an independent candidates who meet these requirements.
non-executive director of the company.
Following a rigorous evaluation of the performance of each director, and on The governance and nomination committee has the recommendation of the governance and nomination developed an in depth knowledge of the necessary committee, the board is recommending that, in accordance Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 192 with the United Kingdom Corporate Governance Code, planning and in particular with the CEO about succession published in September 2012, all directors except for planning for his own position.
The committee considered Mrs S Ba-NDaw, who will stand for election for the first the succession planning for the non-executive directors time, having been appointed since the date of the last as well as the executive directors.
annual general meeting AGM will stand for re-election at the companys next AGM on 5 May 2015.
The committee considered the job description of the CEO and reviewed the natural resources market from which Randgold is an equal opportunity external candidates could be sourced.
The committee, employer focused on developing Diversity together with the CEO, also considered which members local skills through on-the-job practical of the companys senior management might be internal training and in certain circumstances funding particular university and other training courses at higher education candidates.
The committee continued to look at succession planning The company also partners with local businesses to at other levels of the company and during the year assist with the training requirements of the companys considered succession plans for the companys senior contractors.
The company has implemented training executives.
The committee found that in most instances programmes which develop many of our employees succession was possible with internal candidates.
understanding of the companys business and this alignment has brought significant rewards to both the The committee considers its succession planning companys employees and its business.
procedures and the processes involved when dealing The companys employment policy at all its operations in with new appointments to the board and when West and Central Africa is centred firstly on recruitment considering changes to the chairmanship of the board, from the local community in the host countries in which to be appropriate.
the company operates, followed by recruitment nationally and then by regional selection.
Only if the skills cannot The board often has an opportunity to meet with senior be sourced in this manner does the company recruit management and see them operate on site when they expatriates.
Its success rate in ensuring that suitable visit the groups operations.
The board encourages such candidates are able to operate effectively requires an site visits which are undertaken at least once every year active programme of mentoring.
In addition, Randgolds two site visits occurred in 2014 as they allow the board to existing mines are used as training and development interact with site management and for day-to-day issues grounds for new staff joining other operations.
The to be discussed, broadening the boards understanding company continues its policy of recruitment based on ability and talent.
of the activities of the company.
The committee believes this exposure to the companys senior executives The board currently consists of two executive directors provides a useful benchmark against which to measure and eight non-executive directors, with two of the eight management.
During 2014 the board visited both the non-executive directors being female.
Loulo gold mine in Mali and the Kibali gold mine in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and in January 2015 The diverse nature of the employees of the group is the board visited the Tongon gold mine in Cte dIvoire.
reflected by the board of the company which comprises eight nationalities covering four separate continents.
The board recognises that diversity extends beyond the C omm i t te e B o a rd boardroom and supports management in their efforts to eva l u at io n eva l u ati o n build a diverse and well trained organisation.
The board supports the companys policy to recruit and advance The performance of the committee was evaluated as part women to positions of senior management and elsewhere of the formal 2014 annual board evaluation exercise, which in the groups operations.
The company has a number of was facilitated by Theano Kosmas an external facilitator women in key executive and senior managerial positions from Strategnos, and the results presented and debated including within the companys mine management teams.
at the boards February 2015 board meeting at the Tongon The company employs women in positions throughout gold mine, Cte dIvoire.
As a result of the evaluation the organisation which traditionally have been male the board and the board committees were found to be dominated in the patriarchal societies of West and Central operating effectively.
The evaluation process involved Africa where the company operates.
The company completion of a detailed board and committee survey by actively encourages women to apply for roles at its sites.
each director followed by a personal interview between Please refer to page 129 of the annual report for details of how the company supports women in the communities in each director and the facilitator to fully understand and which it operates.
objectively assess the results of the surveys.
On the back of the report prepared by the facilitator, a rigorous In addition, the company continues its successful drive and objective assessment of the role of the chairman, to develop local national managers and executives.
the senior independent director, each director and the Across the operating mines, 92% of senior management company secretary was undertaken by the board in a positions heads of department and above were held by separate face to face meeting.
The evaluation process nationals, with three out of five mine general managers considered the strengths and weaknesses of the being nationals.
directors, their skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company and how effectively the board As an African focused gold mining company operating in rural areas of Africa the company has the challenge of and the boards committees are working together.
The uplifting the communities directly affected by its mining overall aim of the 2014 annual board evaluation exercise projects, as well as the inhabitants of the host countries in was to ensure the board works effectively to ensure the which the mines are located.
business continues to be managed effectively.
The governance and nomination In the year ahead the committee will continue to assess the committee periodically reviews Succession boards and committees composition and will continue to the companys succession planning monitor developments in corporate governance to ensure planning.
During the year the the company remains at the forefront of good governance committee has been closely involved with executive directors in reviewing the senior management succession practices.
