Sustainability governance Risk management is at the root of our ability to deliver good financial returns over the long term.
This section explains how sustainability is managed within the company.
This includes the policies and procedures we have in place to ensure we engage effectively with our stakeholders and for identifying and reporting on sustainability risks and opportunities.
Sustainability governance flows from the top down at Randgold, with our Management of board holding ultimate responsibility sustainability for all our efforts in this area.
The board is supported by the environmental and social E&S oversight committee, which meets quarterly and is chaired by our CEO.
Although ultimate responsibility for our sustainability work rests at the top, we avoid a hierarchical structure by also enabling a bottom-up approach.
That is why, for example, our CEO attends regular mass meetings with employees, community leaders and other local representatives or why community grievances may be discussed at the board meeting.
Day to day executive responsibility for implementing our sustainability policies and for achieving the sustainability targets and KPIs outlined in this report rests with the group environmental, community and safety managers.
They report directly to the chief operating officers sitting above the general managers, providing an important layer of independent sustainability oversight.
In 2014, the corporate and sustainability reporting function was contracted to an independent, external consultant, reporting directly to the E&S committee and the board of the company.
The key role of this governance structure is to ensure we identify all sustainability issues and opportunities at an early stage, and have in place the right people and policies to deal with them.
This risk-based approach is at the root of our ability to deliver value.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 104 A key part of our management approach is to ensure bonuses will also be contingent on recording zero class that sustainability is considered at all stages of a mine one environmental incidents from 2015.
For example, even at the earliest stage of a succession planning in every executive management mine project the exploration phase, Randgold will put position, including our CEO, to ensure that our a formal grievance mechanism for the local community sustainability work is built into the DNA of our company.
During the feasibility phase of a project we conduct detailed Environmental and Social Impact As part of our tendering procedure we also encourage Assessments ESIAs to understand what sustainability all contractors and service providers to implement our risks exist: and when a mine begins production the human rights, environmental and social standards, antioperational phase we put in place detailed management corruption and anti-bribery policies in their organisations.
structures, targets and performance assessments, including an environmental management system, to As detailed throughout this sustainability report, Randgold ensure these risks are controlled.
From day one of has a comprehensive set of policies and practices in place operation, each mine is therefore focused on ensuring to deal with all our sustainability challenges.
We rely on that it does not create any long term environmental our people to effectively implement these policies, which liabilities and that it puts in place a viable strategy for posthave evolved through years of experience and are crafted closure economic growth.
to comply with host country legislation.
This means that we tend not to officially adopt or endorse specific Each year, this sustainability report focuses on international charters or sustainability initiatives, even documenting our sustainability performance in an though we often agree with them and work to support open and transparent way, and reports against the them.
GRI G4 guidelines to ensure we comply with international best practice.
In 2014 we were delighted to be highly Examples of international standards or initiatives that commended by the respected UK Institute of Chartered fall into this description include the IFC Performance Secretaries and Administrators at their Excellence in Standards, World Bank Operational Guidelines, OECD Governance Awards.
Convention on Combating Bribery and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
Throughout Randgold operates in this sustainability report we refer to international best accordance with the highest Corporate practice standards such as these and where they have standards of corporate governance helped shape our own policies.
The company complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate Our stance on bribery and Governance Code published in September 2012, is listed corruption is a very clear Anti-corruption on both the London Main market and the NASDAQ stock one we have zero measures exchanges, and is incorporated in Jersey.
We file our tolerance for corruption annual report Form 20-F with the US Securities and and will not offer, pay or accept bribes.
The groups Code Exchange Commission, complying with the appropriate of Conduct requires all our personnel, and the personnel legislation including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform of our contractors, suppliers and partners not to engage and Consumer Protection Act.
in any form of bribery or corruption.
Randgold undertakes due diligence on all parties it does business with and Our overarching Code of Conduct available on our ensures stringent anti-bribery and corruption clauses are website www.
com helps ensure included in its contracts.
Our personnel are also trained our values are applied throughout the company and in anti-bribery and corruption measures to ensure the defines the standards of behaviour expected of all groups Code of Conduct is fully adhered to.
It sets out our standard on a range of issues including bribery, The group operates a whistle blowing policy where all our whistle blowing, record-keeping, fraud, interactions personnel and the personnel of our suppliers, contractors with governments and sustainable development.
and partners are encouraged to report any breach or Contravention of this code would lead to disciplinary suspected breach of the groups anti-corruption and antiaction and the potential termination of employment.
The bribery policies to the groups compliance officer.
Our importance of complying with our Code of Conduct is anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and practices explained to all new employees as a central part of their are regularly audited to assess the adequacy of and induction training.
compliance with our Code of Conduct.
Where appropriate, we include achievement of We believe in full transparency in our dealings with sustainability targets as a component of bonus-based remuneration packages.
For example, part of both our governments and we fully encourage our host CEOs and CFOs annual bonus payments are dependent governments efforts to establish procedures to ensure on achieving a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate of revenue transparency in accordance with international below 0.5 for the maximum payment and part of both standards.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 105 Ongoing, unrestricted, twoway discussion with our Stakeholder stakeholders is at the heart of engagement our approach to sustainability.
It allows us to understand their needs and therefore to build the deep partnerships that enable us to succeed.
Our stakeholder engagement programme aims to facilitate these discussions.
Our engagement programme categorises our stakeholders into eight specific groups: shareholders, employees, local communities, governments, relevant NGOs, trade unions, suppliers contractors and the media.
It ensures we communicate with all eight groups regularly throughout the year.
Some of the elements included in this are: Quarterly results presentations to local authorities, and an annual presentation of results and Community leaders attend a feedback session on our performance to local communities: sustainability report at Kibali, DRC in 2014.
Monthly updates with local chiefs and community committees: In 2013, Randgold conducted The attendance of trade union representatives at a materiality assessment, Materiality mine-level board meetings and strategic planning surveying both internal and sessions: assessment external stakeholders to ask Community grievance mechanisms in place at all what they perceived our most critical sustainability risks sites: to be.
The assessment was instigated in line with Annual materiality assessment: guidance set out by the GRI G4 guidelines and helped Mass meetings with our CEO which are open to shape this report to be In Accordance - Core with the GRI all mine employees, community leaders and other G4 standard.
This exercise helped us to compare what both internal This year our programme also included formal public management and external stakeholders perceive to be meetings with community leaders and local authorities our most pressing sustainability issues.
This was useful to receive feedback on last years sustainability report as it showed that while issues such as safety, community pictured.
Comments were mostly positive although engagement and cyanide management all featured in the negative comments were also useful and fully responded top five priorities for both parties, there were differences to.
There were also a total of three public participation too.
For example, the issue of water pollution appeared programmes PPPs this year linked to ESIAs around as the third highest priority among external stakeholders, proposed new pits and hydropower stations at Kibali, but was listed ninth by internal stakeholders.
This gives DRC and the underground development at Gounkoto, our executive management a useful tool to help ensure Mali.
we are better aligned with all our stakeholders needs.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 106 At the conclusion of the process we were able to The scope and measurement methods have not changed produce the Material Issue Matrix below, showing which if compared to Randgolds previous sustainability report sustainability issues were assessed to be of highest published in March 2014. priority by all stakeholders combined.
The data used to populate this document is collated on For the purposes of this report we have set thresholds a monthly basis and reviewed by management.
Data to determine the top material issues, of which 19 were for previous years is provided in certain instances for identified.
It is our performance against these issues in comparative purposes.
A selection of the sustainability 2014 that form the bulk of the content for this sustainability information has been assured by an independent report.
assurance provider, Environmental and Sustainability Solutions ESS.
The complete assurance statement Please note that we also comment in this report on some as well as the GRI Content Index in accordance with issues that fell outside these top 19 priorities but which the G4 Guidelines are attached as appendices to we nonetheless consider important to report on.
the standalone sustainability report on our website www.
We refer to this materiality assessment in the introduction to each chapter of this report to show how our policy implementation in 2014 has managed the priority risks it In terms of our value chain, all our gold 100% is sold highlighted.
to the South African based refinery, Rand Refinery Pty Limited Rand Refinery, which has an internationally The aim of this respected reputation for integrity and ethics.
Rand report is to Scope and boundary Refinery is able to certify that its entire chain of custody represent a is responsible and conflict free and this certification is of this report balanced and independently audited.
Rand Refinery is also a member reasonable view of our companys sustainability of the World Gold Council and the Responsible Jewellery performance, covering all material aspects.
Randgold does not buy any minerals from environmental, safety and economic impacts presented artisanal miners.
covers all six of our operational and development sites situated in Mali, Cte dIvoire, Democratic Republic of We welcome feedback on this sustainability report and Congo and Senegal.
With the exception of GHG emissions, it excludes our offices and guesthouses.
RESULTS OF 2013 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 5 5 4 Safety 4 Community engagement Community development and investment Water pollution 3 Local economic development Cyanide management Waste management Local and national employment HIV AIDS Malaria 3 Indigenous populations Occupational health Staff training and skills transfer Air pollution Community grievance resolution Security forces Local procurement Closure Water Environmental incidents 2 use planning Fair wages Legal compliance Corporate governance Bribery and corruption Artisanal R & C Freedom of association Revenue transparency mining Human rights Energy use and efficiency Land disturbance Gender equality Product responsibility 2 Material use efficiency Climate change and adaptation Supplier human rights Ecology Financial assistance 1 Supplier labour practices Strike action Very minor Minor Moderate Severe Very severe 0 1 Current potential impact on the business Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 107 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Importance to stakeholders Medium High Critical
