Corporate governance report Randgold is incorporated in Jersey.
The company complies with the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code.
The company has been in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and to the date of this annual report.
In September 2014, a revised Code the 2014 Code was issued, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 which will be applied by the company for the year ending 31 December 2015.
The Code and the 2014 Code can be viewed on the website of the Financial Reporting Council, at www.
uk, and a copy of both codes is available on the companys website www.
The remuneration paid by the company to members of the board is set out in the remuneration report, which can be found on pages 168 to 190 of this annual report.
In addition, the audit committee report and the governance and nomination committee report can be found on pages 156 and 191 respectively of this annual report.
The board acknowledges that to continue to be a successful world class gold mining company it must be led by an effective board, with appropriate skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the activities of the company and its industry and environment.
The board has adopted a board charter in accordance with the Code which clearly sets out its duties as a board and includes the duties of the chairman, the chief executive officer and the senior independent director.
The board reviewed the board charter at its January 2014 and February 2015 board meetings and determined no amendments were necessary.
A copy of the board charter is available on the companys website.
Details of the companys share capital are set out in note 5 of the financial statements of this annual report and details of key shareholders are provided on pages 244 to 246 of this annual report.
There are no special rights attached to the companys shares or restrictions on voting rights.
Each notice of general meeting of the company will specify the time for determining a shareholders right to attend and vote at the meeting, and the deadline for submitting proxy appointments.
BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of board meetings Director Position held attended in 2014 1 1 CL Coleman Non-executive chairman 4 4 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 4 4 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 4 4 NP Cole Jr Senior independent director 4 4 2 S Ba-N'Daw Independent non-executive director - K Dagdelen Independent non-executive director 4 4 3 J Kassum Independent non-executive director 4 4 J Mabunda Lioko Independent non-executive director 4 4 AJ Quinn Independent non-executive director 4 4 K Voltaire Independent non-executive director 4 4 1 Mr CL Coleman was appointed chairman of the board with effect from 6 May 2014.
Mr P Litard retired as a non-executive director and chairman of the board with effect from 6 May 2014.
There were two board meetings between 1 January 2014 and 6 May 2014, all of which Mr Litard attended as chairman.
2 M rs S Ba-NDaw was appointed to the board with effect from 1 March 2015.
3 Mr Kassum was appointed to the board with effect from 31 January 2014.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 148 The powers of the directors are set out in the Articles of and nomination committee and the corporate governance Association of the company Articles, which are available report: and the approval of the annual report on the on the website of the company, and are subject to relevant Form 20-F as required by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
legislation and, in certain circumstances, authority given by the companys shareholders.
Details relating to the powers In order to facilitate its supervision of the company, the of directors in respect of share capital are set out in the board has established three board committees: the notice of annual general meeting AGM 2015.
The Articles audit committee, the remuneration committee and the also govern the appointment and replacement of directors.
Details of the The Articles may only be amended with shareholders terms of reference of each committee and the members of approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
each committee are available on the companys website www.
The members of the The information that fulfils the requirements of the committees for the year are set out on pages 16 and 17 corporate governance statement in accordance with of this annual report and in the respective committee DTR 7.2 can be found in this corporate governance report reports.
and in the reports of the audit committee, remuneration committee and the governance and nomination committee The day to day management of the company is delegated to on pages 148 to 193 of this annual report.
the chief executive officer CEO.
An executive committee has been established by the CEO and membership of Biographical details of each director of the company as at that committee is made up of the CEO as chairman, the the date of this annual report can be found on pages 16 to chief financial officer CFO and senior executives of the 17 of this annual report.
company and the other general managers of each of the companys operations as set out on page 22 of this annual The measures taken by the company to satisfy the report.
The company regards the executive committee as requirements of the Code are set out in this report, with a good management tool as it allows senior management the headings below following the Codes main principles.
to debate on a regular basis the companys business and operations together with any other issues that may Every company should be headed by an effective arise.
The executive committee has also proved a vital board which is collectively responsible for the long forum for sharing information concerning the company term success of the company.
When the need arises the executive committee establishes sub-committees to deal with a specific scope of work, which are then The board guides the strategic development of the company tasked with reporting back to the executive committee.
In and supports the principle of collective responsibility for addition, the CEO chairs the companys environmental and the success of the company.
sustainability committee, details of which can be found in the sustainability report on pages 98 to 147 of this annual The board has reserved certain matters for its sole report.
discretion, as set out in the board charter.
These include: the finalisation and adoption of the companys strategic Management provides the board, ahead of each quarterly plan: the approval of the annual operating budget, and board meeting, with a detailed briefing pack of documents monitoring its performance against budget: the approval of which cover the operations and business of the company interim and final financial statements: the dividend policy: and includes reports from each mine, major projects and the approval of any significant change in the accounting activities, along with sections covering health and safety, policies and practices: fiscal policies including treasury financial, legal, technical, human resources, treasury, and hedging policies: approval of all financial, legal, social, tax, environmental, sustainability and investor relations environmental and ethical controls of the company to activities.
ensure the appropriate procedures are in place: significant mergers and acquisitions and other material transactions: During the year, the board met four times in person.
Board approval of all significant mining developments: new issues meetings typically take place over a two day period, with of long term debt: capital issues and material changes to the first day allocated to the board committee meetings the companys capital structure: remuneration of executive and the second day allocated to the board meeting.
The directors and senior managers: nominating candidates for intervening evening allows the board members to engage election by the annual general meeting of shareholders in informal discussions among themselves on the activities to membership of the board: approval of all circulars, of the company and the groups strategy.
prospectuses and listing particulars: approval of the annual report and accounts, including the directors remuneration In January 2014, the board visited the Loulo gold mine report, audit committee report, report of the governance in Mali and was afforded time with senior management Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 149 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED while touring the Loulo-Gounkoto complex including The board charter sets out those powers which are reserved the underground mines.
In May 2014 the board visited solely for the boards discretion and consideration, while the Kibali gold mine to coincide with the formal opening listing separately those issues for which the chairman and of Kibali.
The board spent three days on site which CEO would be respectively accountable.
included tours of the operation and the underground mine and the opportunity to discuss the mines progress The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the and its relocation action and social programmes with the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects mines employees, contractors and consultants, social of its role.
The chairman, in conjunction with the CEO and the The board held its first meeting of 2015 together with its company secretary, sets the agenda of each meeting and committees meetings at the Tongon gold mine, which ensures throughout the year that sufficient time is provided took place over two days and enabled board members for discussion regarding key strategic and operational to visit the Tongon operation and spend time with senior issues of the group.
The practice of the board and management.
committee meetings taking place over two days allows for active debate among all members of the board.
Consideration of the results of the boards 2014 evaluation session, which was led by an independent external Mr CL Coleman was appointed chairman of the board with facilitator, Theano Kosmas, took place at the boards effect from 6 May 2014 and, as required under the Code, February 2015 meeting.
Theano Kosmas has not provided at the time of his appointment as chairman he met the external facilitator services to the board before.
she has previously assisted senior management with its strategic meetings as an external facilitator.
The board As part of their role as members of a unitary board, considers its evaluation meetings and its evaluation of non-executive directors should constructively its committees with an external facilitator vital to ensure challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
the board continues to perform at the level required of an international mining company.
Further details of the An atmosphere of open constructive debate exists at the boards 2014 evaluation can be found on page 193 of this companys board meetings, allowing directors to engage annual report.
with executive management on key aspects of policy and performance.
Over the course of a typical two day period when the board holds its committee and board meetings, the The non-executive directors believe that the format of the non-executive directors will meet without the executive board, in conjunction with the activities of the three board directors being present and throughout the year committees, is sufficient to allow them to effectively assess non-executive directors also meet informally to discuss the performance of management in achieving set goals matters without the executive directors being present.
The members of the audit committee believe that their discussions, under the direction of the During the course of the year the company reviewed its audit committee terms of reference, provide assurance insurance policies.
Following that review, the company regarding the integrity of the financial information and that is comfortable with the directors and officers insurance the financial controls and the systems of risk management which it has in place.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities Likewise the remuneration committee has actively been at the head of the company between the running involved in the determination of the levels of remuneration of the board and the executive responsibility for the executive directors.
The governance and nomination for the running of the companys business.
No committee has continued its involvement with regard to one individual should have unfettered powers of board and senior management succession planning.
Issues relating to the financial performance of the company The roles of the chairman and CEO are separate, with each are addressed both by the audit committee and at board having clearly defined responsibilities.
clearly defined parameters, the chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring effective The company has had a senior independent director communication exists between the executive and since October 2003.
Mr NP Cole Jr has served in this non-executive directors.
He continues to make himself available to shareholders whenever they wish to contact The CEO has been delegated authority to manage the day to day administration of the company.
During 2014, Mr NP Cole Jr in his capacity as senior description has been prepared and this, together with the independent director and chairman of the remuneration CEOs role and duties as detailed in the board charter, is committee along with Mr CL Coleman in his capacity reviewed annually by the board.
as chairman of the company, and a member of the Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 150 remuneration committee, following the practice instigated the operations, candidates are expected to combine a in previous years, had several meetings with representatives strongly independent perspective and demonstrate sound judgment with the ability to share a cohesive vision of the of the companys major investors, shareholders and companys future.
various voting guidance services where issues concerning general corporate governance and executive directors On 1 March 2015, following a thorough selection process remuneration were discussed.
led by the governance and nomination committee and following that committees recommendation, the board The non-executive directors under the leadership of the appointed Mrs S Ba-NDaw to the board as a non-executive chairman regularly meet without the presence of executive director.
The board determined that Mrs Ba-NDaws skills directors.
The non-executive directors also meet without and experience as detailed in her biography on page 17 of the chairman.
In addition, the audit committee has met with this annual report would be advantageous to the role of the companys external audit partner without either the CFO non-executive director on the companys board and that or CEO being present and it has also met the companys her appointment would be beneficial to the company.
head of internal audit on several occasions, again without the CFO or CEO.
The non-executive directors find these The board considers that all the non-executive directors sessions particularly useful in supporting their assessment are independent and the chairman was independent on of internal controls and financial reporting quality and it is appointment.
their intention to have further sessions without the executive directors being present over the course of 2015.
Having given the matter careful consideration, the board is satisfied that both Mr NP Cole Jr and Dr K Voltaire The board and its committees should have remain independent in character and judgement, the appropriate balance of skills, experience, notwithstanding that the ninth anniversary of their independence and knowledge of the company to appointment to the board will fall in May 2015, shortly enable them to discharge their respective duties before the 2015 annual general meeting of the companys and responsibilities effectively.
The board currently comprises ten members, two The board is of the view that Mr NP Cole Jr continues to executive and eight non-executive directors.
As detailed make a valuable contribution through his role as senior below, all of the non-executive directors are considered to independent director as well as to the work of the board be independent both in terms of character and judgement, more broadly.
Mr NP Cole Jrs international business and have the necessary balance of skills, experience and experience adds significantly to the skills and expertise of knowledge to discharge their duties as directors of the the board.
The board is also of the view that Dr K Voltaire company pursuant to the terms of the Code.
continues to make a valuable contribution to the work of the board.
Dr K Voltaires extensive international finance The governance and nomination committee continues experience adds significantly to the skills and expertise of to be charged with the duty of identifying suitable the board especially when the company is dealing with its candidates to fulfil the role of director of the company.
The board believes that both directors Mr CL Coleman was appointed chairman of the board and continue to act independently in the best interests of the chairman of the governance and nomination committee on company.
6 May 2014 when Mr P Litard retired as chairman of the board and from the committee.
Furthermore, the board considers that the experience of both Mr NP Cole Jr and Dr K Voltaire provides valuable Prior to Mr CL Colemans appointment as chairman, insight, knowledge and continuity to the board.
The board a special committee of non-executive directors was believes that mining is a long gestation business and, as convened by the senior independent director to report such, justifies a longer period of service for non-executive to the governance and nomination committee on the directors than many other industries and that reasonable appointment of a new chairman.
Neither Mr PL Litard periods of service are therefore needed for the stability of nor Mr CL Coleman were involved in the appointment the board.
The board values the deep understanding of process and neither contributed to the special the group brought by the boards long serving members, committee or the governance and nomination committee while recognising the need for new appointments to be when the chairmanship succession was discussed.
made from time to time to add fresh perspectives.
This Mr CL Colemans profile is set out on page 16 of this annual is evident with the appointment of Mr J Kassum and report.
Mrs S Ba-NDaw to the board in January 2014 and March 2015 respectively, and the board shall continue to look for The committee continues to consider the optimal balance suitable candidates for new non-executive directors to of skills on the board as well as an appropriate gender ensure the board structure is refreshed as appropriate.
In addition to possessing the continuity benefits which Mr NP Cole Jr and Dr K Voltaire expertise required for the strategic direction of a major provide will greatly assist the more recently appointed international mining company, and having sufficient time members of the board as they integrate and develop in to commit to their responsibilities including field visits to their non-executive director roles.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 151 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The board will continue to keep the independence of deal with new appointments to the board and succession Mr NP Cole Jr and Dr K Voltaire under review during of the CEO and the chairman are appropriate.
The the year, however the board has agreed that both procedure followed when appointing Mrs S Ba-NDaw Mr NP Cole Jr and Dr K Voltaire should remain in office to the board is detailed in page 192 of this annual report.
until 2016 in order to maintain a degree of certainty, ensure Further information on the work of the governance and a smooth handover of board and committee experience nomination committee can be found on pages 191 to 193 and knowledge, and help to integrate more recently of this annual report.
Mr NP Cole Jr will step down as chairman of the remuneration committee All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time following completion of the committees May 2015 meeting to the company to discharge their responsibilities but will remain as a member of the committee, and effectively.
Mr AJ Quinn will be appointed as chairman of the remuneration committee.
Mr NP Cole Jr intends to step The board believes that all its members have sufficient down from the board of the company in November 2016. time to devote to the company.
Details of any candidates Dr K Voltaire will step down as chairman of the audit existing board commitments are disclosed at the time of committee following the committees 4 May 2015 meeting consideration of his or her appointment and the board does but will remain as a member of the committee, and not believe that any other board commitments adversely Mr J Kassum will be appointed chairman of the committee.
affect any board members contribution to the company.
Dr K Voltaire intends to step down from the board of the No current director, whether executive or non-executive, is company at the AGM in 2016. a director of another FTSE 100 company, however Messrs NP Cole Jr and CL Coleman are also non-executive The company continually evaluates the composition of the directors of the board of Papa Johns International Inc, the board and the boards succession plans to ensure board New York NASDAQ listed company, and Dr DM Bristow members continue to bring objectivity and independent is a non-executive director of Rockwell Diamonds Inc, judgment to the role and that a plan is in place for their the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and Toronto succession.
The board devotes a considerable amount of time to company business During 2014 each non-executive director received an including attending at least one site visit each financial award of 1 200 ordinary shares in the company which year: during 2014 the board undertook site visits to both vested on grant.
This policy was introduced following shareholder consultation and is not considered to impinge the Loulo gold mine and the Kibali gold mine and in 2015 on the directors independence.
Details of the nonthe board made a site visit to the Tongon gold mine where executive directors shareholdings in the company are they spent time at the companys operations including time provided on page 186 of this annual report.
With effect with the site management.
The board finds attending site from 1 January 2015 and subject to shareholders approval visits valuable and increases their day-to-day knowledge of at the 2015 AGM, each non-executive director save for the the issues facing the groups operations.
chairman will receive an award of 1 500 ordinary shares in the company.
The chairman will receive an award of 2 500 All directors should receive induction on joining the ordinary shares in the company.
board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
Disclosures in respect of all related party transactions are included in note 20 of the annual financial statements of The board continues to operate in a field which is technically this annual report.
complex and directors are provided with a comprehensive set of materials, including information in relation to The companys policy is for directors to disclose their environmental, sustainability, social and governance interests pursuant to the Companies Jersey Law 1991 issues, which enables them to fulfil their duties effectively.
when they are appointed to the board and at each Visits to the mines and offices, and technical presentations subsequent board meeting.
The company maintains a provided by management are used to further board register of directors interests at the companys registered members knowledge in various areas of specialisation.
There are no interests that have been disclosed that are considered to impinge on the directors independence.
A new director is taken on site visits, and is afforded an opportunity to meet with employees and managers and During the year, Mr CL Coleman, the chairman of the board, be provided with a comprehensive pack of corporate was appointed a director of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited.
induction materials, including a memorandum of the role and responsibility of a director prepared by the companys There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent general counsel and company secretary.
As part of her procedure for the appointment of new directors to continuing induction process, Mrs S Ba-NDaw will attend the board.
a series of corporate governance training sessions in 2015 conducted by the companys Jersey, English and The board, together with the governance and nomination United States lawyers.
committee, considers that the procedures and policies to Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 152 As in previous years, Dr K Dagdelen has worked with the A meeting of the non-executive directors under the companys mining, exploration and mineral resources leadership of the senior independent director also departments to facilitate mine optimisation and geological assessed the chairmans performance.
that session confirmed the chairman provides strong leadership to the board and to the board committees in Members of the audit committee come from a financial which he participates.
background and have the necessary skills and experience to undertake their role on the committee.
The audit Information regarding Theano Kosmas other work with committee also receives on a regular basis legislative, the company can be found on pages 150 and 193 of this corporate governance and market updates from the annual report.
companys general counsel, the companys internal auditor, and the companys external auditor and accountants.
All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory As set out on pages 168 to 190 of this annual report, the performance.
members of the remuneration committee have continued to liaise closely with consultants Towers Watson Limited and All directors stand for re-election annually.
Pursuant to English lawyers Allen & Overy LLP, with regard to executive the Articles, any newly appointed director will be subject and non-executive remuneration.
The committee has also to election by shareholders after his her appointment by been provided with periodic information concerning market the board.
The Articles do not specify either an age limit remuneration and legislation changes from the companys for directors or any restriction about the period of service.
Biographies of the directors can be found on pages 16 and 17 of this annual report.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to Copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive enable it to discharge its duties.
directors and the service agreements for each executive director are available for inspection at the companys Under the guidance of the chairman, it is the duty of registered office and at each annual general meeting of the the company secretary to ensure an effective flow of company.
information occurs between the board, its committees and the management of the company.
The information sharing The board is responsible for determining the nature process utilises a secure online platform to allow the board and extent of the significant risks it is willing to to access all current and historical board and committee take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The briefing packs as well as key corporate and operational board should maintain sound risk management and documentation.
The board and committee briefing packs internal control systems.
cover such areas as health and safety, governance, financial, legal, technical, treasury, tax, human resources, Please refer to the sections headed control environment environmental, sustainability and communications in and risk management, which can be found on pages 161 respect of the operations and the company as a whole.
The to 166 of this annual report.
company secretary ensures that the board is appraised on all corporate governance matters.
Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the The board should undertake a formal and rigorous quality required to run the company successfully, annual evaluation of its own performance and that but a company should avoid paying more than of its committees and individual directors.
A significant proportion of executive directors remuneration should be Please refer to the report of the governance and nomination structured so as to link rewards to corporate and committee, which is set out on pages 191 to 193 of this individual performance.
Please refer to the remuneration report, which can be The board considered the results of its 2014 evaluation found on pages 168 to 190 of this annual report.
session assisted by an external facilitator, Theano Kosmas, at its February 2015 board meeting.
The process started There should be a formal and transparent procedure in December 2014 with each director completing a detailed for developing policy on executive remuneration and questionnaire concerning the operation of the board and for fixing the remuneration packages for individual of the boards committees, followed by a round table directors.
No director should be involved in deciding discussion on the questionnaires results and individual his or her own remuneration.
No areas of weakness in any individual directors performance were identified.
The board is therefore recommending to shareholders that they The remuneration committee regularly reviews the vote in favour of the re-election of each director proposed executive directors salary.
When such reviews occur the in the 2015 notice of AGM.
executive directors do not participate in any resolution on Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 153 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED their remuneration.
The chairman does not participate significant financial reporting judgments and deals with the in any resolution on his remuneration.
The senior appointment of the auditors and monitors their relationship with the company and its management.
independent director does not participate in any resolution on his remuneration.
The other non-executive directors The audit committee makes recommendations to the of the company do not participate in any resolution board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment on their remuneration.
For further details please refer and any changes to the external auditors.
BDO LLP to the remuneration report, which can be found on BDO was appointed in 2007 following a formal review pages 168 to 190 of this annual report.
In 2011, the board established a formal policy relating to the periodic review of the external The board should present a fair, balanced and auditors, which stipulates that the external audit shall be understandable assessment of the companys put out to formal tender every five years.
During the tender position and prospects.
process the audit committee will review the credentials of other providers of external audit services as well as the The board considers that the procedures it has in place incumbent auditors, along with other information, to assess to ensure that information presented is fair, balanced and their capability to conduct the audit while delivering a high understandable, are appropriate.
In particular the board quality and cost effective audit service.
Further details of has charged the audit committee to oversee the preparation the audit committees process for appointing auditors of of the companys annual report and accounts and to liaise the company are set out on page 160 of this annual report.
with the companys internal and external auditors.
The audit committee regularly meets with the internal auditor A copy the of audit committees terms of reference is and separately with the external auditor without the CEO available on the companys website.
The audit committee also invites the CFO and the company secretary to attend its meetings.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based The CFO makes himself available to the committee both on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The at its committee meetings and at other times to deal board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring with questions from the committee on the companys that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes financial statements and the groups operations generally.
Following the audit committees sessions it then reports directly to the board on the work it has undertaken.
As The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining part of the procedures and measures the audit committee effective communication with all shareholders and and the board have in place, the audit committee provides for ensuring that members of the board develop an its views to the board on whether the companys annual understanding of the views of major shareholders about the report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced company.
The CEO, corporate communications manager and understandable.
and the companys investor relations consultants prepare a quarterly report for the board detailing the activities Please refer to the financial statements, which can be and presentations given to shareholders.
In addition, the found on pages 200 to 242 of this annual report, together company employs international market intelligence experts with the CEOs review and the CFOs financial review on to provide a global shareholder identification service which pages 10 to 13, and 18 to 21 respectively of this annual enhances the companys communications.
While general report, and the statement of directors responsibilities corporate communication with shareholders is conducted on page 196 of this annual report for the boards formal by the CEO, the chairman regularly participates in dialogue statement in this regard.
with shareholders and other stakeholders.
In addition members of the remuneration committee undertake Details of the significant areas of judgement or estimate are annual meetings with the companys shareholders and further discussed in the report of the audit committee on voting guidance agencies.
It has been the policy of the company that twice a The board should establish formal and transparent year extensive roadshows are conducted by the CEO, arrangements for considering how they should accompanied by various members of the executive team, apply the corporate reporting and risk management where meetings are held with most of the companys major and internal control principles and for maintaining institutional shareholders to brief them on the activities of an appropriate relationship with the companys the company and to enable company representatives to auditors.
interact directly with shareholders and other stakeholders.
In addition, after the publication of each set of quarterly Further details of the companys approach to corporate results the CEO follows up with a conference call available reporting, risk management and internal control for interested shareholders, investors and international principles are dealt with in the audit committee report media, and conducts meetings with many of the on pages 156 to 167 of this annual report.
The roadshows are in addition committee reviews the companys financial reports, internal to the companys attendance at several key international control principles and risk management systems, reviews mining and investment conferences around the world.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 154 Randgold held investor days in New York, Toronto and The board should use the AGM to communicate with London during 2014 and, in the light of their success and investors and to encourage their participation.
positive feedback, will do so again in 2016.
The board believes that the AGM continues to be an Where possible, the CEO asks non-executive directors appropriate forum for contact with shareholders and to join him at presentations made to shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
During their visit to the Loulo accordance with the Articles, at any general meeting all gold mine, in January 2014, and the investor days in resolutions put to the meeting shall be decided on a poll.
November 2014, the board had the opportunity to interact The number of proxies received is disclosed to members in with investors and fund managers who were attending site attendance at each AGM.
At the 2014 AGM, the board chairman, all committee In 2014 the chairman, and in 2015 the chairman and one chairmen and all other non-executive directors were other non-executive director, attended the Mining Indaba present and available to address any queries raised by Conference in Cape Town, South Africa, where they had shareholders.
an opportunity to interact with various investors and fund managers who attended the conference.
Results of the AGM are published on the day of the meeting to inform shareholders not present of the results of the The board continues to use the internet for publication voting.
of announcements and to file these on the companys website to assist with communication with shareholders.
The company is pleased to see the increasing trend of In addition, the board encourages shareholders to access institutional shareholders now exercising their rights to the annual report from the website.
The structure and vote at annual general meetings.
In the past three years accessibility of our website is regularly monitored through the percentage of shareholders present and voting has a process of internal and external reviews.
steadily increased, which is welcomed by the company.
INVESTOR FORUMS ATTENDED 2014 Location Forum Cape Town, South Africa Mining Indaba Denver, USA Denver Gold Forum Frankfurt, Germany BARCLAYS Select Series: UK Frankfurt Hollywood, Florida, USA BMO Global Metals and Mining Conference Kinshasa, DRC Infrastructure Partnerships for African Development London, United Kingdom dbACCESS Metals and Mining Conference RBC Capital Markets Gold Conference Mines & Money Miami, USA BOAML Global Metals, Mining and Steel Conference New York, USA Metals and Minerals Investment Conference Toronto, Canada PDAC Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 155
