corporate governance The names and biographies of all directors are published GOVERNANCE STATEMENT on pages 48 to 49.
The board is committed to ensuring that the Group is well managed and that rigorous and transparent procedures allow Key board responsibilities this to happen.
The board is responsible for: The principal governance rules applying to UK companies Group strategy, objectives and policies: listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the general and long-term progress of the Group within the UK Corporate Governance Code, revised by the Financial political, economic, environmental and social setting of the day: Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code.
This report financial performance, annual budgets and business plans: also includes the information that is required by the Financial major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR and Disclosure Rules annual and half-year financial results and interim and Transparency Rules DTR to be contained in the management statements: Companys annual report.
board committees and their terms of reference: internal controls and risk management: Save in relation to Code provisions A.
2.1 roles of responsible gambling and ethical behaviour: chairman and chief executive not to be exercised by the sound governance, health and safety, and environmental same individual, A.
3.1 chief executive not to become policies: chairman, A.
4.1 requirement for a senior independent board and company secretary appointments: director, C. 3.1 audit committee to comprise at least three senior management structure, remuneration and independent non-executive directors and B.
6.2 triennial succession: and  board evaluation, the board confirms investor relations.
that it has complied with the provisions of the Code Specic responsibilities are delegated to our four board throughout the year ended 30 June 2014.
Please see pages committees audit, remuneration, nominations and finance.
52 to 56 for an explanation as to why the board has not They report to the board and operate within dened terms complied with Code provisions A.
4.1, C. 3.1 of reference, which can be obtained from our website at and B.
jsp or by writing to This statement explains how we have applied the principles the company secretary.
of the Code, our governance policies and practices and how The executive directors conduct the Companys business we run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
within clearly dened limits delegated by the board and In this statement the following abbreviations are used: subject to those matters reserved to the board.
FCA Financial Conduct Authority Board meetings Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion on Guoco Guoco Group Limited strategy, trading, financial performance and risk management.
Hong Leong Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad There were nine scheduled meetings during the year and one further meeting.
CODE MAIN PRINCIPLES During the period under review, the boards committees also Leadership met regularly to discharge their duties.
The role of the board Board composition In exceptional circumstances when a director is unable to As at the date of this report, the board consists of: attend a meeting, their comments on brieng papers are given in advance to the relevant chairman.
a non-executive chairman: four independent non-executive directors: and two executive directors the chief executive and the finance director.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 51 Directors report corporate governance continued The directors attendance at board and committee meetings during the year is recorded in the table below.
It shows the number of meetings attended by each director compared with the number of meetings that director was eligible to attend.
Board meeting attendance Audit Nominations Finance Remuneration Full board committee committee committee committee Current directors 1 Ian Burke 10 10 n a 1 1 9 9 n a 2 Henry Birch 2 2 n a n a 2 2 n a Clive Jennings 10 10 n a n a 9 9 n a 3 Lord Kilmorey 10 10 n a 2 3 n a n a 3 Owen ODonnell 9 10 3 3 3 3 n a 8 8 4 Tim Scoble 8 10 2 2 2 3 9 9 8 8 3 Shaa Wasmund 8 10 n a 3 3 n a 7 8 Former directors 5 Colin Child 6 7 2 2 2 2 5 5 n a 6 John Warren 4 4 1 1 n a n a 2 2 1 Mr Burke joined and became chair of the nominations committee and joined the audit committee on 25 June 2014.
2 Mr Birch joined the board on 6 May 2014 and joined the nominations committee on 1 July 2014.
3 Lord Kilmorey, Mr ODonnell and Ms Wasmund became members of the nominations committee on 27 February 2014.
4 Mr Scoble joined the audit committee on 17 October 2013.
5 Mr Child resigned from the board with effect from 18 March 2014.
6 Mr Warren retired from the board with effect from 17 October 2013.
Insurance and indemnity best achieved by combining the role of chairman and chief The Company has arranged insurance cover and indemnifies executive.
When Mr Burke indicated that he would like to directors in respect of legal action against them to the extent retire from executive management of the business, the board permitted by law.
Neither applies in situations where a director wished to retain the established line of communication with has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Guoco and so was pleased when Mr Burke agreed to become non-executive chairman.
The board is aware that this is not Conicts of interest in compliance with Code provision A.
3.1, but believes it to The directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts of interest.
be in the best interests of all shareholders at this time.
Since In accordance with our articles of association, we have adopted the appointment of Henry Birch as chief executive on 6 May a policy and procedure for managing and, if appropriate, 2014, the role of chairman and chief executive has been split.
authorising actual or potential conicts of interest.
We have now approved a clear division of responsibilities for Directors are required to disclose any other new appointments the chairman and chief executive.
before agreeing to take them on, so that any conicts of Chairman interest can be identied and addressed.
The chairman is charged to: The board also assesses conicts of interest before making any manage the business of the board, preside over meetings new appointments.
and seek prompt and appropriate decisions: work with the company secretary to ensure directors receive Division of responsibilities accurate and clear information for the proper execution of Between 15 July 2011 and 6 May 2014 the Companys then their duties: chief executive also assumed the role of executive chairman.
oversee effective communication with shareholders: Given the size of Guocos shareholding in Rank, the board keep the Groups progress and development under review: was of the view that it was important for there to be a clear ensure the chief executives Group objectives, policies and line of communication between the Company and its majority strategies are consistent with lasting shareholder value: shareholder and that this would be for the benefit of all evaluate the board and its committees: and shareholders.
The board was of the view that this would be ensure the Groups governance is effective and in line with best practice.
52 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Chief executive Effectiveness The composition of the board The chief executives role is to: More than half of our board excluding the chairman manage and promote long-term profitable development: is independent: exercise stewardship of intellectual property, human and Name Independent Appointed financial resources and ensure that the relevant policies Chairman are implemented: 1 plan strategy and prepare objectives and policies for Ian Burke n a March 2006 board approval: Executive ensure action is taken to achieve strategies, objectives and Henry Birch X May 2014 policies, as approved by the board: Clive Jennings X July 2011 ensure objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for each Non-executive Group business, that appropriate budgets are set for them Lord Kilmorey 3 May 2012 individually, that their performance is monitored, and that guidance is given when needed: Owen ODonnell 3 September 2008 take responsibility for Group health and safety policies: 2 Tim Scoble 3 April 2010 make sure the Group complies with all relevant Shaa Wasmund 3 November 2012 legislation: and lead ongoing communication with employees.
1 Ian Burke was originally appointed to the board on 6 March 2006.
He resigned from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3 July 2011.
On 15 July 2011 he became executive chairman.
On 6 May 2014 he resigned his role as chief Non-executive directors executive and became non-executive chairman with effect from that date.
The directors are satisfied that there are proper procedures 2 Until 30 April 2012, Tim Scoble was not independent he was an appointee of Guoco, a parent company of Ranks largest shareholder.
Tim Scoble has been in place to ensure that: independent since 30 April 2012 when he ceased to be an appointee of Guoco.
they are receiving accurate and clear information for The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each the proper execution of their duties: director are set out on pages 70 and 73 to 76 and their interests the Groups objectives, policies and strategies are in Rank shares are detailed on page 76. consistent with enhancing shareholder value: they are able to keep the Groups progress and Committees development under review: The composition and chairmanship of our board committees they have an opportunity to challenge constructively, are considered annually and have been considered twice and help develop, proposals on strategy: during the period under review.
there are effective communications with all shareholders: and Commitment the Groups governance is effective.
The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are Senior independent director outlined on page 70 of the directors remuneration report.
Since the resignation of Colin Child on 18 March 2014, All non-executive directors are required to disclose their the Company has been endeavouring to recruit a senior other significant commitments both before appointment and independent director.
This has proved more challenging following subsequent changes so that the board can satisfy than anticipated and, as at the date of this report, no suitable itself that each of the directors has sufficient time to allocate candidate has been identied.
The Company is therefore in to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The committee continues Neither Henry Birch nor Clive Jennings currently holds any to seek candidates for the role of senior independent director.
directorships outside the Rank Group.
Executive directors are not permitted to take up non-executive directorships outside the Group.
Henry Birch was a non-executive director of the AIM-listed PLUS 500 Limited until 12 May 2014 and received fees in respect of such directorship.
He was permitted to retain the fees relating to the six days that such directorship overlapped with his employment by the Company.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 53 Directors report corporate governance continued Development The non-executive directors met privately to discuss the Induction effectiveness of the board and its committees during the year During the period under review, no new non-executive directors and agreed that, overall, the board had functioned effectively were appointed to the board.
The chief executive was appointed during the period under review and that its committees to the board and he was given a comprehensive induction.
continued to discharge their duties in line with their respective terms of reference.
The non-executive directors also met Skills and knowledge privately without the chairman present to discuss how the All directors are given regular written briengs with regard to transition to the new chief executive was going and, although matters affecting the Groups businesses, such as the political it was too early to make a full assessment, there was nothing and regulatory environment.
Additionally, at the boards that had emerged that was of concern to the board thus far.
request, the Groups auditor keeps the board abreast of key impact items such as political and regulatory initiatives with The board is mindful of the requirement to have conducted an regard to narrative reporting, executive remuneration, going  board evaluation by 30 June 2014.
Given concern and the role of the audit committee.
the recent board changes, it was thought that to conduct an evaluation now would serve little useful purpose and that more Directors are invited to identify to the company secretary benefit would be gained from conducting one slightly later.
or human resources director any desired skills and knowledge The board therefore intends conducting an evaluation during enhancements that they require so that appropriate training the financial year ended 30 June 2015 and in this respect the can be arranged.
chairman has already engaged with several board evaluation Additionally, once a year, the directors have an opportunity consultants.
The Company has therefore not complied with to review and agree their respective training and development Code provision B.
6.2. needs during their one-on-one meetings with the chairman.
Information and support Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman is responsible for ensuring that directors receive accurate and timely information on all relevant matters.
EVALUATION The directors receive a monthly report of current and forecast PROCESS trading results and treasury positions, as well as updates on shareholder views.
A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover topical issues and developments.
Comprehensive brieng papers on substantive agenda items are circulated at least five working days before meetings where possible.
These contain detailed background information, thus Evaluation questionnaire freeing time for informed debate.
We operate an open-door policy between the board and the management team.
Members of the management team also Individual interviews with the chairman make regular board presentations to ensure a ow of operational information reaches the directors in a timely way.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Non-executive directors meeting company secretary and, if required, may take independent with the chairman advice and or professional development at the Companys expense.
Evaluation To monitor overall board performance, we use off-the-record Non-executive directors meeting questionnaires between the chairman and each director to evaluate individuals, the committees and the board as a whole.
The chairman conducted individual interviews with each board member to discuss their contributions during the year.
54 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Re-election Constructive use of the annual general meeting All new directors must stand for election at the first annual All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at meeting AGM.
Private investors are encouraged to ask intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors questions following a summary business presentation of the are engaged for an initial period of three years and must stand Groups results and development plans.
for election and re-appointment in the same way.
Ranks The chairman, chief executive and chairmen of the audit, articles of association require one third of serving directors remuneration and nominations committees are all present.
Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions The Company complies with the Codes requirement contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at least for annual re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
The business presentation and Therefore all directors will also submit themselves for voting results are made available at www.
com, or in re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Relations with shareholders Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or Dialogue with shareholders appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual and The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that other general meetings of the Company.
satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
As at 30 June 2014, 69.3% of our shares were held by our majority Next AGM shareholder, Guoco, and its connected parties and a further The 2014 AGM will be held on 16 October 2014 and the full 23.5% were held by 15 institutional shareholders.
text of the notice of meeting, together with explanatory notes, is set out in a separate document at: www.
com Ranks chairman takes the lead on dialogue with the downloads agm.
Additionally, given that Rank is a 68.9% subsidiary of Guoco, the chief executive If you have elected for paper information, this will be enclosed and other members of Ranks executive management team with your hard copy of this annual report.
Shareholders meet with representatives of Guoco four times a year to discuss wishing to change that election may do so at any time by business performance and other issues that could impact their contacting the Companys registrar contact details are on financial statements.
page 141 and on our website at www.
We speak with our institutional shareholders and city analysts through a programme of investor relations and regular meetings with principal shareholders conducted by our chief executive, finance director and director of investor relations.
All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with shareholder opinion.
During the period under review, a total of 23 meetings with 11 shareholders were attended by one or more of the chairman, chief executive and finance director.
Formal briengs on shareholder opinion are circulated to the board after presentation of the Companys interim and annual results.
The principal method of communicating with all our shareholders is via our corporate website, www.
Information can be provided in paper format but only when shareholders specically request this.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 55 Directors report corporate governance continued The committees terms of reference are available from the Companys website at www.
com downloads terms Audit committee of reference tor audit committee.
pdf, or by writing to the company secretary.
Audit committee membership and meetings Until 18 March 2014 the board had an audit committee comprised of three independent non-executive directors.
However, upon the resignation of the former audit committee chairman on 18 March 2014, the audit committee membership reduced to two independent non-executive directors, chaired by Owen ODonnell.
Pending recruitment of a new nonexecutive director to serve on the audit committee, the Companys chairman has joined the committee on a temporary basis so that there are three committee members.
This is in breach of Code provision C. 3.1 which requires the audit committee to consist of at least three independent non-executive directors.
A rolling agenda and topical items determine the committees Chairman discussions.
The committee met formally three times in the Owen ODonnell period under review.
Other Members Members of the audit committee as at the date of this document Tim Scoble, Ian Burke are Owen ODonnell chair, Tim Scoble and Ian Burke.
The board is satisfied that the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
At the invitation of the audit committee chairman, the chief Role of the audit committee executive, finance director, company secretary, director of The audit committee assists the board in reviewing and group financial control and director of internal audit normally maintaining internal controls, the management of risk attend committee meetings, as does the external auditor.
Other and our compliance with law and regulation.
directors are encouraged to attend at least one committee It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups meeting a year at which the external auditor is present.
The internal and external auditors also meet the committee It also assesses the integrity of all public financial statements without executive directors and other employees being present.
before their submission to the board, ensuring we present a Risk management fair assessment of the Groups ongoing position and prospects.
As part of its risk oversight role, the board as a whole, Any changes in accounting policies are authorised by the including the audit committee, satisfies itself that the necessary committee, which also reviews the objectivity and effectiveness steps are taken to foster a culture of risk-adjusted decisionof our external auditor every year.
The board strives to ensure that risk management is an integral component of the The committee oversees the Companys internal code of Groups corporate strategy, culture and value generation conduct and monitors our whistleblowing procedures, through process.
The boards view is that risk management should be which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about neither an impediment to the conduct of business nor a mere possible improprieties in areas of financial reporting, financial supplement to the Groups overall compliance programme.
control and other ethical matters.
The risk management process is reviewed by the audit The committee is regularly updated on accounting and committee on behalf of the board and monitored regularly legislative changes through brieng papers from the auditor, by the chief executive, supported by the company secretary.
56 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 During the year under review the audit committee has Established procedures are geared to identify, evaluate and examined the Groups approach to assessment of risk by manage significant risks and to monitor the Groups businesses reviewing evidence of current and emerging risk and the and performance.
Groups risk management processes and also by reviewing This framework is reviewed annually and is designed to action plans to manage significant risks.
At its meeting in safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, May 2014 the board considered and discussed its appetite while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
for risk, which remained unchanged from previous years.
Senior management is responsible for making sure that The Companys risk management reporting provides controls and procedures are enforced and that the board knowledge of current and emerging risks, trends and is informed of any risks and control issues that arise.
opportunities that may colour strategic decisions.
Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for Rank communicates with regulators, Government, nonreporting financial results to the board, a budgeting process governmental organisations and other bodies that have incorporating an approved budget and bi-annual re-forecasts.
opinions about Ranks business, its future and effects.
The chief executive and finance director hold monthly review Compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 and HM Treasury meetings with brand managing directors and their respective Financial Sanctions forms part of the general risks and directors of finance.
internal controls reported to the board.
Our audit committee Financial reporting control: detailed policies and procedures also reviews managements bi-annual reports on anti money are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of laundering, internal and external fraud, whistleblowing, financial reporting.
code of conduct and inadvertent breaches of legislation.
Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic plans An external risk management review of the Groups digital annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
businesses was completed in the second quarter of the 2013 14 financial year.
That review focused on information security, Operational control: our procedures are laid down in detailed fraud and payments, customer management and afliates.
manuals and reinforced by employee training.
Each business The board considered the conclusions and recommendations unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and of that review and delegated follow-up of managements report weaknesses to operational management.
actions in relation to information security to the audit Compliance control: Across the Group we have teams whose committee.
The audit committee has reviewed managements responsibility it is to ensure day-to-day adherence to all information security improvement programme and continues legislation to which our operations are subject, including to monitor progress against the plan.
gambling, anti money laundering and health and safety.
During the year under review the board, through Senior executives and the internal audit team are responsible the former chair of the audit committee, assessed its for monitoring overall compliance.
They report to the audit understanding of and approach to so-called cyber risk.
As a result of that assessment the board has resolved to The executive directors and senior management meet regularly work with management to understand better the importance with representatives from the businesses to address financial, of cyber risks to the business and the actions necessary to human resource, risk management and other control issues.
At its meetings in the year to 30 June 2014 the audit Internal control framework committee examined the effectiveness of the Groups approach Our system of internal control is designed to manage rather to internal control by reviewing changes to controls made than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, during the year, including the implementation of a new and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against general ledger system for our digital channel: approving a material misstatement or loss.
It controls, rather than revised 2013 14 internal operational audit plan, a revised eliminates, any human error, deliberate misconduct or corporate and systems audit cycle: reviewing the structure of uncertain events.
the internal audit department and the level of internal audit To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, resource.
The committee also reviewed action plans to address operational and compliance issues, the board has put in failings or weaknesses identied in the Groups system of place formally dened lines of responsibility and delegation internal control.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 57 Directors report corporate governance continued This process has been in place during the period and up to the Risk committee date of approval of this annual report and financial statements.
During the year a risk committee was established in order to It has been reviewed by the board and meets the Financial improve the Groups approach to risk management.
This is Reporting Councils internal control guidance to directors.
not a committee of the board.
It comprises the chief executive, finance director, company secretary, chief information officer Internal audit and director of internal audit.
Other employees attend The audit committee has responsibility for the internal audit meetings of the risk committee by invitation, as appropriate, function and the director of internal audit reports directly depending on the specic agenda items to be discussed at the to the chairman of the audit committee.
The risk committee meets monthly and its primary team provides an objective and continuous stream of data purpose is to: and opinion on risk management and control.
To avoid bias, it is entirely independent of the business operations under review the corporate risk register: carry out deep-dive reviews into specic departments and audit, and line management is to the chairman of the audit functions risk registers: and committee.
The audit committee agrees the annual audit plan provide a forum to remedy lack of progress in making agreed and reviews audit reports produced by the internal audit team.
The scope of the audit coverage is dened by the audit Code of conduct committee and covers all systems, procedures and activities Rank has an employee code of conduct that sets out our values of all operations, departments and functions within the and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
Adherence to Group, including projects, policy developments, financial the code is important.
It upholds our reputation and and non-financial processes.
relationships, inside and outside the Company.
The internal audit team seeks to determine whether the system The audit committee is responsible for monitoring of risk management, control and governance processes, as management reports on employee conduct, including our designed and operated by management, is adequate and whistleblowing procedures.
functioning in such a manner as to ensure that: Financial reporting and significant financial issues risks are appropriately identied and managed in line with The committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies the Companys risk appetite: have been adopted and whether management has made operations are run with sufficient and adequate controls appropriate estimates and judgements.
The committee reviews and in an efficient and effective manner: accounting papers prepared by management which provide significant financial, managerial and operating information is accurate, reliable and timely: details of the main financial reporting judgements.
The employee actions are in compliance with policies, standards, committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on the procedures, and applicable laws and regulations: and full-year and half-year results which highlight any issues with relevant laws, rules and regulations are complied with respect to the work undertaken on the full year audit and the in the operation of the business.
To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit to significant accounting issues considered by the committee monitor each business units reporting performance also affect during the year included: operational management bonuses.
impairment review of intangible assets and property, plant The director of internal audit makes regular presentations and equipment: to the audit committee and reporting includes comparative review of provisions, including those in relation to property and trend analysis.
During the period under review the audit leases and indirect tax: review of ongoing direct tax issues: committee had three closed sessions with the director of treatment of exceptional items: and internal audit without executive management being present.
58 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Audit committee activity in 2013 14 The committee was of the view that the exceptional In addition to those items detailed under internal control, risk impairment charges recognised of 12.9m and exceptional management and financial reporting and significant financial impairment reversals of 1.5m were appropriate.
Further issues, during the year under review the committees business details of the impairment charges and reversals are disclosed has included the following: in note 4. fulland half-year results: Property lease provisions at both the half and full year, principal judgemental accounting matters affecting the Group: the committee considered the Groups approach to property external audit plans and reports including auditor lease provisions, the discount rate applied and managements observations and recommendations as a result of controls recommendations, in order to satisfy itself how management testing completed for the purposes of the 2012 13 and came to its best estimate of property lease obligations.
2013 14 audits: internal audit plans and key reports: The committee noted that the Group has a number of property information security and cyber risk: leasehold contracts and was of the view that appropriate external and internal theft and fraud: provision had been made against those property leases where anti money laundering: the unavoidable costs exceed the expected economic benefit responsible gambling: expected to be derived from the property.
Further details of the litigation: and property lease provision held are disclosed in note 22 and the whistleblowing and code of conduct reports.
exceptional adjustments made in the current year are disclosed The committee and the board also reviewed the recently in note 4. published formal guidance to boards with regard to cyber risk In addition, the committee was also updated in respect of that had been prepared by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries certain property leasehold contracts where the rights and & Administrators ICSA with the assistance of industry experts obligations but not the legal titles have been transferred to from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS third parties such that the Group remains potentially liable and other industry experts on cyber risk.
in the event of default by the third party.
Should default significant financial judgements occur then the Group would normally have recourse to one Before recommending the half-year and full-year financial or more guarantor entities.
These leasehold contracts include statements to the board for approval, the committee reviewed 16 remaining property leases, with lease durations of between the following key accounting issues that rely on significant one month and 99 years and a current annual obligation financial judgements.
net of sub-let income of approximately 1.5m, that were transferred concurrent to the 211m sale and leaseback in Impairments for indefinite life assets not subject to 2006.
The committee noted the risk associated with the amortisation, the Group performs an annual impairment transfer of such property leasehold contracts but that the review.
In addition, the Group also reviews assets that are Group has not to date been notied of any default, or intention subject to amortisation or depreciation for events or changes to default, in respect of the transferred leases.
Further details in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount of this contingent liability are disclosed in note 31. of an asset or cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
The Group considers each venue to be a cash-generating unit Indirect tax provisions the committee receives and and therefore the review covers in excess of 160 individual considers an update paper covering the Groups indirect tax cash-generating units.
issues at both the half and the full year.
This covers both the accounting treatment of the Groups various VAT claims and The committee reviewed managements impairment review other indirect tax issues.
process including, where applicable, the cash ow projections and discount rate used to derive a value in use.
This included The committee was of the view that managements best estimate considering the impairment charge arising in Spain of 7.5m of the liability for the issues that remained outstanding was where performance at three clubs has not seen the expected appropriate.
Details of the indirect tax liability recognised are recovery following the introduction of the smoking ban in disclosed in note 22.
2011, which has been compounded by a period of prolonged difficult economic conditions in Spain.
In addition, the committee considered the 4.1m impairment charge at the Grosvenor Casinos venue in New Brighton, where performance has not developed as expected.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 59 Directors report corporate governance continued Direct tax the committee receives and considers an update committee members for discussion amongst themselves.
paper covering the Groups ongoing direct tax issues at both Additionally, the audit committee considered the Financial the half and the full year.
These issues cover both discontinued Reporting Councils audit quality review findings of Ernst & operations with historic tax audits and continuing operations Young LLPs group and subsidiary audit of Rank in respect of where tax returns submitted have been, or are likely to be, the 18-month period ended 30 June 2012 as outlined in its challenged by the relevant tax authority.
The committee noted letter of 25 November 2013 to Ernst & Young LLP.
that a number of these issues were successfully concluded In addition to a private meeting between the audit committee during the year by working co-operatively with the relevant chair and the external audit partner, the committee met tax authorities.
with the auditor following each audit committee meeting The committee was of the view that managements best in a closed session without executive directors to assess the estimate of the liability for the remaining issues was objectivity and accuracy of financial reporting and to hear appropriate.
See note 18 for details of the direct tax any other observations that the auditor had to make.
Audit tendering The committee has noted the requirements regarding audit Contingent assets and liabilities the Group, as noted in tender and rotation of the audit engagement partner.
The the areas of significant judgement above, has had to consider Companys external audit was most recently tendered during the accounting treatment of a number of potential assets and 2009, resulting in a change of external auditors and the liabilities.
This requires management to apply judgement in appointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the Companys annual assessing the probability of occurrence or non-occurrence of general meeting on 22 April 2010.
The committee will one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the continue to give consideration to the timing of the next control of the Company.
formal tender in the light of the then prevailing regulatory The audit committee receives tri-annual updates from requirements.
The committee does not anticipate that a management, incorporating legal advice as appropriate, on tender will be undertaken during the 2014 15 financial the accounting treatment for potential assets and liabilities year.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the in relation to disclosure or recognition.
The committee is choice of external auditors.
of the view that management has appropriately treated such Auditor items in the financial statements.
Details of the contingent Having reviewed their performance throughout the period, liabilities disclosed are included in note 31. our conclusion that Ernst & Young LLPs effectiveness is Principal risks and uncertainties satisfactory enables us to recommend their reappointment Details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, and for 2014 15. what we are doing to address them, can be found on pages 22 The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, is willing to continue in ofce to 25.
Additionally, details of the financial risks that the Group and a resolution that they be re-appointed, at a remuneration faces can be found in note 20 to the financial statements.
to be agreed by the audit committee, will be proposed at the Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process forthcoming annual general meeting.
Agreement on how best to assess the effectiveness of the Relations with external auditor external audit process was discussed and agreed between Our auditor is employed to express an opinion on the financial the audit committee and senior management.
It reviews the systems of internal financial control effectiveness of the external audit process was assessed by and the data contained in the financial statements to the the use of a questionnaire, which posed questions in relation extent necessary to express its opinion.
to different aspects of the external audit process.
Those individuals employed by Rank most actively involved with the It discusses with management the reporting of operational day-to-day aspects of the audit provided responses to certain results and the financial position of the Group, and presents questions asked of them.
The responses were provided to audit findings to the audit committee.
60 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Information The directors in ofce at the date of this report are not aware Nominations committee of any relevant information that has not been made available to the auditor and each director has taken steps to be aware of all such information and to ensure it is available to the Companys auditor.
Non-audit work The audit committee oversees the nature and amount of any non-audit work undertaken by the auditor to ensure it remains independent.
Consequently, the committee is required to approve in advance all non-audit services above a specified value.
When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to non-audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite competitive tenders where appropriate.
It is also the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain audit independence with the desirability of taking advice from the leading rm in the area of advice being sought and the desirability of being efficient.
Chairman Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP throughout the Ian Burke period under review can be found in note 3.
Other Members Rank has used the services of other accounting rms for Lord Kilmorey, Owen ODonnell, Tim Scoble, non-audit work during the period under review.
Shaa Wasmund, Henry Birch Rank is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the audit partner and the audit engagement team have not been Appointments to the board compromised by the fees paid for the non-audit work Nominations committee undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP.
The formal terms of reference of the nominations committee Assurance are available on our website at www.
com downloads The internal audit function and the external auditor presented terms of reference tor nominations committee.
pdf, or by their findings to the committee in August 2013 and in January, written request to the company secretary.
We confirm that action plans to remedy The nominations committee is responsible for identifying identied weaknesses in internal control have been in place relevant talent and nominating all board appointments throughout the period.
with due regard for the benets of diversity on the board, including gender.
During the year under review the committee met formally on three occasions.
The main issues which it discussed were: succession planning: chairmanship and membership of board committees: board composition: and board diversity.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 61 Directors report corporate governance continued Board and committee composition Mr Burke also advised the majority shareholder that he was The nominations committee keeps the boards size and considering retiring from executive management of the structure under review.
The nominations committee is of the Company.
The majority shareholder decided to engage an view that the board is well balanced, providing a collective executive search rm, Forza International Australia Pty Ltd, to competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an assist them in identifying suitable candidates that the board appropriate blend of executive and non-executive skill.
From that process, the majority shareholder believe that all our directors are suitably qualied to help steer identied Mr Birch as a suitable candidate and introduced him and challenge Group strategy.
to the committee so that it might consider him for the role.
The composition and chairmanship of our board committees The committee agreed that Mr Birchs experience met the are considered annually and have been considered twice committees specication and each board member then during the period under review.
The board met to discuss their individual views on Mr Birchs suitability for the role and Board diversity concluded that he was an excellent candidate who possessed During the period under review, the nominations committee all the skills and attributes that it would look for in a successor has continued to consider the issue of diversity in the context to the chief executive.
The board concluded that it should of the board and is mindful of the benets that diversity brings appoint Mr Birch to the Rank board as chief executive.
The role of chairman The boards diversity policy is to recruit the best candidate The committee also considered the role of chairman.
Mr Burke having regard to the skills and experience required, but with had indicated that he would, if so invited by the board, be a mind to diversity, including gender diversity.
The directors willing to continue to act as chairman of Rank in a nonaspire to achieving 25% female representation on Ranks board executive capacity.
The committee was mindful of the general by 30 June 2016. principle that a chief executive should not go on to become Details of the gender breakdowns of directors, senior chairman of the same company.
management and the Group as a whole can be found However, given Mr Burkes particular strengths, knowledge on page 36 of the strategic report.
of the existing business and ability to manage communication Appointment of chief executive with all shareholders, the board formed the view that it would When Mr Burke indicated to the board that he was considering be beneficial for all Ranks shareholders if Mr Burke were to retiring from executive management of the Company, the continue as chairman but in a non-executive capacity so as nominations committee considered the skills and attributes to ensure a smooth transition of executive responsibilities.
that it would look for in a potential successor to Mr Burke.
The Re-appointment of non-executive directors appointment committee concluded that any successor to Mr Burke would, in of new non-executive directors addition to the typical skills and experience expected of a chief On 11 September 2014 Owen ODonnell will have served six executive, need to have significant expertise in digital gaming years on the board.
2.3 which as this had been identied as a major strategic opportunity for provides that any term beyond six years for a non-executive the Group.
The committee was of the view that there were no director should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and suitable internal candidates with the required experience on should take into account progressive refreshing of the board, the Groups succession plan to put through a formal the committee considered carefully the re-appointment of assessment process.
Mr ODonnell for a further term.
62 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 In this respect the committee had regard to the fact that, with the exception of the chairman, Mr ODonnell was the longest Finance committee serving member of the board and that it was desirable to retain some corporate memory.
Additionally, it had proven challenging to recruit an independent director to join the audit committee and that it would be best for the Company if Mr ODonnell served a further term.
Therefore, on the recommendation of the nominations committee, the board re-appointed Mr ODonnell as a director of the Company for a third three-year term commencing 11 September 2014.
The nominations committee also considered the re-appointment of Tim Scoble as a director.
Mr Scoble served for approximately two years as an appointee of Ranks majority shareholder and, by the time of this years annual general meeting in October 2014, will have served as an independent director for approximately 30 months.
Mr Scobles breadth of experience as a leisure operator and his prior experience as a chief executive of a listed company are attributes which are of benefit to the Rank board Chairman and therefore, on the recommendation of the nominations Ian Burke committee, the board re-appointed Mr Scoble for a term of three years commencing 16 October 2014.
OTHER Members Senior independent director Henry Birch, Clive Jennings, Tim Scoble The committee continues to seek candidates for the role of senior independent director since the resignation of Colin Child on 18 March 2014.
The board has established a finance committee which is comprised of the chairman, chief executive, finance director and one non-executive director, and which is authorised to approve capital expenditure and make nancing decisions for the Group up to authorised limits.
On behalf of the board, the finance committees role includes setting, monitoring and reporting on: operating plans: monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial performance against budget: and year-end forecasts.
The committees terms of reference are available from the Companys website at http: www.
com downloads terms of reference tor nance committee.
The committee met on nine occasions during the year and the issues it discussed included insurance cover and uninsured risks and some lease renewals within its delegated authority.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 63
