Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Board meetings The Company is premium listed on the Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion.
The Board meets a minimum of five times a year and constitutes additional meetings London Stock Exchange and this Report including by telephone or written resolution to consider specific matters is prepared with reference to the which it has reserved to itself for decision.
Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate In 2014, there were five regular Board meetings plus five additional meetings.
There were four Audit Committee meetings, three regular Governance Code the Code in effect for Remuneration Committee meetings plus two additional meetings and four the financial periods beginning on or after Nomination Committee meetings.
The table below sets out the attendance by individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings which each 1 October 2012.
This Report sets out Director was eligible to attend.
how the Company has applied the Main Principles of the Code throughout the year Board Attendance at Scheduled Meetings ended 31 December 2014 and as at the Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee date of this Report.
5 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings Adrian Bellamy 5 of 5 3 of 3 4 of 4 Leadership 1 Jaspal Bindra 2 of 3 1 of 1 2 of 2 Board responsibilities 2 Richard Cousins 2 of 2 2 of 2 The Board supports high standards of corporate governance, which are 3 critical to business integrity and maintaining investors trust in RB.
It is Nicandro Durante 4 of 5 2 of 2 4 of 4 responsible for the overall conduct of the Group and has the powers, Peter Harf 5 of 5 4 of 4 authorities and duties invested in it under relevant laws and regulation and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board has final responsibility Adrian Hennah 5 of 5 for the management, direction and performance of the Group and its Ken Hydon 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 business operations.
The Board exercises objective judgement on all Rakesh Kapoor 5 of 5 4 of 4 corporate matters, independent from executive management, and is accountable to Shareholders for the proper conduct of the business.
It is Andr Lacroix 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of, and reporting on, the 1 Sue Shim 3 of 3 1 of 1 2 of 2 Groups system of corporate governance.
Judy Sprieser 4 of 5 3 of 3 4 of 4 The Executive and Non-Executive Directors are equal members of the 4 Doug Tough 1 of 1 1 of 1 1 of 1 Board and have overall collective responsibility for the direction of RB.
The principal focus of the Boards work is the overall strategic direction of the Warren Tucker 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 Group and the monitoring of performance.
It approves strategy, carries out an advisory and supervisory role and accepts ultimate responsibility for the notes conduct of RBs business.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Boards 1 Jaspal Bindra and Sue Shim joined the Board on 1 July 2014 and the Audit Committee decision includes: on 1 August 2014.
Significant acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects: 2 Richard Cousins retired from the Board on 7 May 2014.
3 Nicandro Durante joined the Board on 1 December 2013 and the Remuneration Final approval of annual budgets and corporate plans: Committee on 1 August 2014.
Approval of financial statements and Shareholder communications: 4 Doug Tough joined the Board and the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 2014.
Takeover offers and the response to any takeover approach: Directors who were not members of individual Board committees were also invited to Treasury policies and risk management policies: attend one or more meetings of those committees during the year.
There was one Board Significant changes to borrowing facilities or foreign currency meeting where three Directors were unavoidably absent.
transactions: and The Chairman Review and approval of recommendations from the Committees of the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
The Chairman, who was independent on The annual review of this schedule was undertaken in November 2014 as appointment, is responsible for leading the Board and enabling the part of the performance evaluations conducted for the 2014 financial year.
Directors to operate effectively as one unit to determine the strategy, risk appetite and governance structure necessary to deliver Shareholder value The principal activities undertaken by the Board are set out in the Strategic in a transparent and responsible manner.
His responsibilities include: Report on pages 1 to 27.
A summary overview is set out in the table on Board focus areas in 2014 on page 31.
Chairing Board meetings and ensuring that they provide a forum that encourages open debate and effective contributions from individual Directors with sufficient time allocated to key issues: Developing an effective working relationship with the CEO whilst recognising the need to maintain the balance between critical friendship and executive responsibility: Finalising the Board meeting agenda developed by the CEO and the Company Secretary: RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 36 Corporate Governance Sponsoring and promoting governance and ethical practices: The non-executive directors The Non-Executive Directors share full responsibility for the execution of Encouraging dialogue between the Company and its Shareholders and the Boards duties, are independent of management and therefore able to other stakeholders and facilitating the Boards understanding of provide critical input into Board decisions through their contributions to Shareholders and other stakeholders concerns: Board discussions and their roles on, and Chairmanship of, Board Overseeing the induction, information and support provisions for Committees.
They: Directors: and contribute international and operational experience and a knowledge Leading the annual performance evaluation of the Board and its and understanding of global financial issues, the sectors in which RB Committees.
operates and the health and safety, environmental and community challenges it faces: The Chief executive officer constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy: The CEO is responsible for the executive management of RBs business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals Board.
The CEO chairs the Executive Committee and, together with the and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: CFO, certain Group functional heads and Area EVPs he appoints to the satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that Committee, provides the day-to-day management of the Company.
financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and Biographical details of the members of the Executive Committee are set defensible: and out on page 35.
The matters delegated to the CEO by the Board include: take responsibility for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Power to delegate the day-to-day management of the business of the Executive Directors and have a prime role in the appointment and, where Company to each of the Officers of the Executive Committee, acting necessary, the removal of senior management and in succession planning.
individually or as a group or sub-committee: Power to acquire and dispose of businesses and to approve unbudgeted The Chairman holds a session with the other Non-Executive Directors at capital expenditure projects subject, in each case, to a 50m limit: and the conclusion of each formal Board meeting without the Executive Directors present.
Power to instruct advisers and to instigate legal proceedings on behalf of the Company in respect of matters for which no further Board Company Secretary authority is required.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Company complies with all relevant governance of the Companys operations and is responsible for The Senior independent director ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed.
He advises the The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Board on corporate governance matters.
All Directors have access to the Chairman and is available to the other Directors and Shareholders who have Company Secretary.
His appointment and removal are matters reserved to concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
The executive directors The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities for the operation of RBs business as determined by the CEO.
Every Director may request that any matter not delegated to the CEO should be discussed by the Board and that no action should be taken before the Board has decided on the matter.
Board Committees and Responsibilities Audit Committee remuneration Committee nomination Committee executive Committee Chair ken hydon Judy Sprieser Adrian Bellamy rakesh kapoor Composition Jaspal Bindra Adrian Bellamy All Non-Executive Directors See page 35 for details Andr Lacroix Nicandro Durante Rakesh Kapoor of members Sue Shim Doug Tough Warren Tucker meetings 4 times per year 3 times per year 4 times per year 11 times per year responsibilities Integrity of financial reports Targets and participation in Review of the skills and experience Executive management of recommendations and statements prior to Board Annual Bonus and LTIPs requirements of the Board the business approval Principles and structure of Search and selection process for Group management structure Effectiveness of risk management executive remuneration policy new Directors and organisational boundaries and internal controls framework Remuneration for individual Development and succession Allocation of resources within Approval of internal audit plan, Executive Directors and Executive plans for Board and Executive the Group effectiveness of internal audit and Committee members Committee levels Recommendations to the Board managements response Terms and conditions of Executive on strategy, plans, M&A, budgets to findings Directors contracts including and operating plans, financial Review and monitoring of termination payments structures and dividend policy external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process.
Presents recommendations regarding appointment of external auditors to the Board.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement director inductions Effectiveness On appointment, individual Directors undergo an induction programme Board composition covering, amongst other things, the business of the Group, their legal and The composition of the Board is such as to enable it to discharge its regulatory responsibilities as Directors of RB, briefings and presentations responsibilities and provide effective leadership to the business.
The Board from relevant executives and opportunities to visit business operations.
If comprises the Chairman, Adrian Bellamy, 12 Non-Executive Directors and appropriate, the induction will also include briefings from our external two Executive Directors.
Information regarding the Directors serving at the auditors, the scope of our Internal Audit function and the role of our Audit date of this Report is set out on pages 32 to 34.
Committee, and other areas the Company Secretary deems fit considering the Directors area of responsibility.
The Board has identified Andr Lacroix as its Senior Independent Director.
The Board has determined that the majority of Non-Executive Directors The induction process is designed to: build an understanding of RB, its excluding the Chairman are independent as recommended by the Code.
businesses and the markets and regulatory environments in which it The Board deemed Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser independent, operates: provide an overview of the responsibilities of a Non-Executive notwithstanding that they have served over 11 years.
The Chairman, Director of RB: build links to RBs people: and build an understanding of Adrian Bellamy, was independent on appointment.
Peter Harf, the Deputy RBs main relationships.
Chairman, is not independent by virtue of being a  Director.
The Shareholder Agreement between the Company and JAB The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Directors Holdings B. V. JAB at the time of the merger in 1999 entitled JAB to receive the information and training required for their roles.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% of the are encouraged to take individual responsibility for identifying their needs Companys ordinary shares entitles JAB to nominate two Directors or one and are expected to take the necessary steps to ensure that they are Director respectively.
JABs current holding is slightly in excess of 10%.
adequately informed about RB and their responsibilities.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience Board diversity to perform the functions required of a Director of a listed company.
The Board continues to focus on diversity in its consideration of new members, seeking out experienced professionals from varied national and Board development ethnic groups, with due consideration given to gender, age and Each member of the Board has access to information which includes educational background.
The Board believe that its current composition actual financial results and reports from the Executive Directors in respect means the Company has a complementary mix of skills and experience to of their areas of responsibility these matters are further discussed at facilitate knowledgeable dialogues about RB, its products and markets.
From time to time, the Board also receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters of significance or Board balance and independence on new opportunities for the Group.
Financial plans, including results, All new Non-Executive Directors confirm in writing that they are able to budgets and forecasts are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the role.
The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains the terms on which The Board holds at least one meeting each year at one of the Companys Non-Executive Directors will be appointed including: operating units.
The 2013 meeting was held in China and the Board visited its operating unit in Salt Lake City, USA during 2014. confirmation that the appointment is a contract for services and details of any Committee appointments: Ongoing training covers a number of sector specific and business issues, confirmation of the initial appointment term of three years terminable as well as legal, accounting and regulatory changes and developments on one months written notice and the expectation that the relevant to individual Directors areas of responsibility.
Throughout their appointment will usually last for more than one term, although all period in office, the Directors are continually updated on RBs businesses Directors stand for re-election annually: and and the regulatory and industry-specific environments in which it operates.
the requirement to seek the agreement of the Chairman before These updates are by way of written briefings and meetings with senior accepting additional commitments including other directorships and executives and, where appropriate, external sources.
the requirement to disclose any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Board support The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee give the Committee The Company Secretary is responsible for the organisation of meetings and responsibility for ensuring that Executive Directors do not take on more the collation, review and distribution of all papers submitted to the Board than one Non-Executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the for consideration.
A confidential electronic team room, which is accessible chairmanship of such company.
On 4 November 2014, Adrian Hennah to all the Directors, is maintained by the Secretariat.
The information became a Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC, as part of the demerger available in the team room includes: agendas for meetings, minutes of of that entity from RB, as disclosed in the Indivior PLC prospectus, meetings, press releases, presentations and any other document which distributed to Shareholders on 17 November 2014.
Indivior PLC is not a the Company Secretary determines would be useful to the Directors.
The overriding benefit of the team room is that all the Directors have immediate access to information to enable them to carry out their The performance evaluation of the Boards performance during 2014 responsibilities.
Directors unable to attend a particular meeting during concluded that the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors devote the year had the opportunity to review and raise any issues on the sufficient time to the Companys business.
Each Director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure exists for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 38 Corporate Governance Conflicts of interest and deed poll of indemnity 2014 evaluations The Board is responsible for ensuring that there are rules to avoid conflicts The review of the Boards performance focused on the key outcomes of interest by Board members.
Where conflicts arise the Board is also from the 2013 evaluation with the objective of ensuring that the 2013 responsible for ensuring that in dealing with them it complies with all improvement actions were embedded in, and integral to, the operation applicable laws, regulations and corporate governance codes.
The Board noted that it receives regular and project specific has delegated authority to the Nomination Committee to manage the updates which afforded members a good overview of key projects such Boards conflicts of interest process and details of its activities and as the strategic review of RB Pharmaceuticals which led to the eventual conclusions in this regard are set out in the Nomination Committee Report demerger of that business as a separate listed entity and the approval on page 42. of a 100m new R&D facility in Hull.
The improved regularity of Board updates also meant that decisions on M&A activities were taken promptly The Directors benefit from the indemnity provision in the Companys with full input from Board members who had timely access to key Articles of Association.
Each individual, who is an Officer of the Company considerations.
Regular project updates include post-acquisition or and or of any company within RB at any time on or after 28 July 2009, disposal reviews conducted.
benefits from a deed poll of indemnity in respect of the costs of defending claims against him or her and third party liabilities.
Additionally, Directors The Board now benefits from the perspective and experience of six and Officers liability insurance cover was maintained throughout the year new members, appointed since the start of 2014.
A tailored induction at the Companys expense.
programme is in place to advance the new Non-Executive Directors knowledge of RB, its people and its business operations.
Another objective evaluation of the Board identified is a desire to safeguard the culture of the Group, which the The Board maintains an ongoing review of its procedures and effectiveness Board believes is critical to RBs competitive advantage.
It noted that and those of its Committees throughout the year.
The evaluation of the culture is determined by the tone from the top and it was desirable for Boards performance during 2014 was undertaken internally using the the current culture to be maintained by the Board for the benefit of the materials from the 2013 externally facilitated evaluation together with Companys Shareholders and all other stakeholders.
additional questions and an invitation for open comments, the results of which were subsequently discussed during the performance Progress update on items from the 2013 evaluation evaluation meeting.
Good progress has been made on the development opportunities identified from the externally facilitated evaluation in 2013.
The areas of significant improvements include: Board Visit to San Francisco Board composition: as at the date of this Annual Report seven additional Non-Executive Directors have been added to the Board since the evaluation was completed: In September 2014, the RB Board Chairman succession: this process, led by the Senior Independent Director, continues to receive due attention from the Non-Executive travelled to San Francisco and Salt Directors and the CEO: and Lake City for its annual off-site Interaction with Executive Directors: Executive Directors now bring forward discussions on potential events with the Board which enables strategy session the Non-Executive Directors to offer input and direction before formal plans and strategies are drafted resulting in more focused debates during meetings.
These outcomes and actions fed into the performance evaluation Schiff Factory undertaken internally during 2014 and will continue to aid benchmarking and the measurement of progress in the coming years.
Salt Lake City was chosen so the Board could visit the recent acquisition in a new category VMS The evaluation of the Chairmans performance was undertaken by the Full day at the Schiff factory Senior Independent Director with input from his fellow Non-Executive Directors, the CEO and the CFO.
The Chairman evaluates each Directors performance through one-to-one discussions with other Directors.
The Remuneration Committee also reviews the performance of the Executive europe, north America enA review Directors and other members of the Executive Committee.
Review of the ENA operating Area and meeting with internal Succession planning management team In accordance with the Code recommendations, all the Directors will Presentations on ENA, North America digital, VMS innovation submit themselves for re-election election at the 2015 AGM.
Each and digital management Director has provided assurance that he or she remains committed to his or her role and can dedicate the necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys business.
In addition, the performance evaluation undertaken was rigorous and transparent to establish that each Director remains able to undertake his or her duties.
Consequently, the Board recommends digital marketing that all Shareholders vote for on each of the resolutions to re-elect elect Proximity to Silicon Valley gave the Board the opportunity to the Directors at the 2015 AGM.
The date each Director was originally focus on digital marketing appointed to the Board is included in the biographical details on pages Visits to both the Google and Facebook campuses and 32 to 34. exploring areas of opportunity with both organisations RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement The Board maintains a process for evaluating the system of internal control Accountability and identifying and managing risk.
Management is required to apply risk management judgement in evaluating the material risks RB faces in achieving its The Board is responsible for the integrity of RBs Group and the Companys objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to Financial Statements and recognises its responsibility to present a fair, bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, in balanced and understandable assessment of RBs position and prospects.
identifying RBs ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business The Board is satisfied that the Financial Statements, report to regulators of risks that do materialise and in ensuring that the costs of operating and price-sensitive reports present a fair, balanced and understandable particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
assessment of RBs position and prospects.
internal control To assist with financial reporting and the preparation of Group Financial The Boards policy on internal control is implemented by management Statements, the finance function has in place a series of accounting and through a clearly defined operating structure with lines of responsibility treasury policies, practices and controls which are designed to ensure the and delegated authority.
RB follows a three lines of defence approach identification and communication of changes in accounting standards, to continuous monitoring of the system of internal control and and reconciliation of core financial systems.
The function consists of risk management: consolidation and financial accounting teams and technical support The first line of defence is provided by management through the which comprises senior finance managers who review external technical controls, policies and routines RB has in place to deal with risks in the developments and accounting policy issues.
In addition, the finance day-to-day running of the business.
Controls are designed into systems function maintains an up-to-date Group Finance Policy Manual and and processes to appropriately mitigate risks at source.
Adequate sets formal requirements with operating unit finance functions, which managerial and supervisory controls are then overlaid locally to verify specify the standard reports and approvals required by RB.
compliance and to highlight and promptly address any breakdown in basic controls: Throughout the year, RB has had in place an ongoing process for The second line of defence is provided by geographical and evaluating the financial reporting process and the preparation of Group functional management oversight structures, such as Areas, Finance, Financial Statements.
The basis for the preparation of Group Financial HR, Supply and Category functions.
Management here sets policies, Statements is set out on page 76 under Accounting Policies.
provides direction and maintains oversight of the first line: and The Board agrees an engagement letter with the external Auditors in The third line of defence is provided independently by internal and respect of the full and half-year results.
The external Auditors Report external audit teams, who challenge and report on the accuracy and on their work and reporting responsibilities is set out on page 65. adequacy of assurance provided by the first and second lines.
Information on RBs business model, its significant risks to and strategy RBs control environment is supported by a Code of Conduct, on which for generating and preserving longer-term growth and delivering on the employees receive training annually, and a range of policies on corporate Companys stated objectives is set out in the Chief Executives Statement responsibility.
Other key elements within the internal control structure are and the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 27. summarised as follows: The Board and management the Board approves strategy and The Directors Statement of Responsibilities on page 63 details the Directors performs an advisory and supervisory role, with the day-to-day responsibility for the Financial Statements, for disclosing relevant audit management of the Company being undertaken by the CEO supported information to the Auditors and for ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, by the Executive Committee.
The CEO and other Executive Committee balanced and understandable.
An extra step involving an additional review members have clearly communicated RBs vision, strategy, operating of the draft Annual Report and a teleconference of the Board was added to model, values and business objectives across the Group: the approval process so that the full Board, acting together, could confirm organisational structure during the year ended 31 December that the Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
2014, RB operated three Area organisations covering ENA, LAPAC and RUMEA together with RB Pharmaceuticals demerged on 23 December The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the Code 2014 and Food, and centralised functions covering category is set out in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities on page 63. development, supply, sales, finance, legal, information services and human resources, as well as an independent internal audit function.
risk appetite Throughout the organisation, the achievement of business objectives The Board has established a risk and control structure designed to manage and the establishment of appropriate risk management and internal the achievement of business objectives.
It has overall responsibility for RBs control systems and processes are embedded in the responsibilities of system of internal control and its effectiveness.
The system complies with line managers: the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control and Risk Management and provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Budgeting there is an annual planning process whereby operating misstatement or loss.
budgets for the following financial year are prepared and reviewed by the Board.
Long-term business plans are also prepared and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis: RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 40 Corporate Governance management reporting there is a comprehensive system of Investor Relations management reporting.
The financial performance of operating units Communications with Shareholders and RB as a whole are monitored against budget on a monthly basis The Board is committed to effective communications between the and are updated by periodic forecasts.
Area and functional executives Company and its Shareholders.
Our investor relations programme includes also perform regular strategic reviews with their management teams, formal presentations of full year and interim results and quarterly which incorporate an assessment of key risks and opportunities: statements on our key performance indicators.
We undertake road shows risk management as part of the ongoing risk and control process, following our results announcements.
We have regular contact with operating units review and evaluate risks to the achievement of analysts and fund managers to ensure that they are updated on any business objectives and the Board reviews those significant risks which company and industry developments, including more information on our might impact on the achievement of corporate objectives.
Mitigating strategy and relevant activities within our business.
The Board receives controls, together with any necessary actions, are identified and regular monthly reports from the CEO which include updates on share implemented.
A summary of the most significant risks faced by RB is price developments, major buyers and sellers of shares, investors views included in the Strategic Report on pages 24 to 27 and full details of and analysts reports on the industry and on the Company specifically.
RBs relationships and Principal Operating Risks are set out on pages Feedback on presentations and roadshow meetings with institutional 126 to 132: investors is presented to the Directors.
operating unit controls each operating unit maintains a system of internal control and risk management which is appropriate to its own major Shareholders business environment.
Such controls must be in accordance with Group The Executive Directors and the Director of Investor Relations meet policies and include management authorisation processes, to ensure regularly with institutional Shareholders and financial analysts to discuss that all commitments on behalf of RB are entered into only after matters relating to the Companys business strategy and current appropriate approval.
In particular, there is a structured process for the performance.
The investor relations programme includes: appraisal and authorisation of all material capital projects: Formal presentations of full and half year results and quarterly interim Compliance controls the Group maintains a compliance control management statements: programme that includes an independent and anonymous Regular meetings between institutional investors and senior whistleblower reporting system, systematic reviews by the internal management to ensure that the investor community receives a audit function, annual management reviews and personal compliance balanced and complete view of RBs performance, the issues faced by certification as well as specialised training in specific areas and RB and any issues of concern to the investors: functions of the business.
Management provides the Board with regular Response to enquiries from institutional Shareholders through the updates on the compliance controls of the Group and considers Companys investor relations team and from retail Shareholders recommendations for continuous improvement: and through the Company Secretary: and monitoring the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk A section dedicated to Shareholders on the Companys website.
management is monitored regularly through a combination of management review, self-assessment, independent review through The Board also recognises the need to ensure that Directors are fully aware quality assurance, environment, health & safety and regulatory audits, as of the views of major Shareholders about RB.
The Board receives regular well as independent internal and external audit.
The results of internal reports on institutional Shareholder meetings and any significant messages and external audit reviews are reported to and considered by the Audit or concerns expressed at those meetings.
Copies of analysts research Committee, and actions are taken to address any significant control relating to RB are circulated to all Directors upon publication.
The Audit Committee also approves annual internal our Shareholder register is made available to the Board and feedback from audit plans and is responsible for performing the ongoing review of the Shareholders and analysts, prepared by our brokers and public relations system of internal control and risk management on behalf of the Board.
advisers, is provided to all Directors after every significant corporate event and other relevant occasions.
Statement of compliance with the Code The Board confirms that reviews of the appropriateness and effectiveness The Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with major of the system of internal control and risk management throughout the Shareholders should such a dialogue be requested.
During the year the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Chairman liaised with Shareholders and reported on these meetings to the Financial Statements have been satisfactorily completed in compliance with Directors.
The Company believes that it is important to make key provision C. 2.1 of the Code.
executives available, along with the Senior Independent Director, if required, to discuss matters of concern with its Shareholders.
The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and the information is included in the section on Takeover Directive on page 60.
Annual General meeting The AGM provides all Shareholders with an opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to them.
The AGM is used as the main opportunity for the Directors to meet directly with private investors and Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Chairman, the Chairs of Board Committees and the Board as a unit.
All resolutions are voted on by way of poll so that each share has one vote.
The results of the poll are released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the website shortly after the AGM.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 41
