Corporate Governance RB Executive Committee Amedeo Fasano Adrian Hennah Executive Vice President, Supply Chief Financial Officer nationality: Italian nationality: British Joined in 1997 as Supply Director Italy.
After the Reckitt & Colman and Rakesh Kapoor Benckiser merger, Amedeo was appointed Manufacturing Director for Central, South Western and Southern Europe Regions.
In 2002 he became Chief Executive Officer Regional Supply Director North America and in 2003 SVP Supply North nationality: Indian America, Australia and New Zealand.
In 2007 he took over the role of SVP Supply Developing Markets and in March 2009 Amedeo was appointed as EVP Supply.
He previously worked for Pirelli Tyres in various supply roles.
Frederic Larmuseau Area Executive Vice President, Developing Markets Roberto Funari nationality: Belgian Executive Vice President, Category Development Joined the Company in 2001 as Marketing Director for Malaysia-Singapore.
Organisation In 2003, Frederic was promoted to Regional Marketing Director for East nationality: Brazilian Asia and in 2005 became Global Category Director for Vanish.
He was appointed General Manager for Brazil in February 2008 and in October Rejoined RB in February 2013 as EVP Latin America, Asia Pacific following 2009, Frederic was promoted to SVP, Regional Director, Latin America.
two years at Imperial Tobacco where he was Group Marketing Director and Executive Committee member.
In his prior 12-year career with RB, In 2012, Frederic was appointed to the position of SVP, Regional Director, Roberto rose rapidly through the organisation, holding increasingly senior North America.
He was appointed as EVP, RUMEA in June 2013 before marketing and general management roles in both emerging and developed taking up his current role in January 2015.
Before joining RB, Frederic markets, including Brazil, Netherlands, South Africa, Central Europe and worked for Procter & Gamble.
Global Category Officer Fabric and Home Care.
He was appointed EVP Category Development Organization in January 2015.
Darrell Stein Senior Vice President, Information Services Rob fide Groot nationality: British Area Executive Vice President, ENA nationality: Dutch Joined RB on 1 September 2014 from Marks & Spencer plc, the UKheadquartered international clothes and food retailer.
After international roles in marketing and sales Rob responsible for the development of Marks & Spencers global online became General Manager The Netherlands, then SVP, Regional Director platform.
Importantly, Darrell also has experience of successfully delivering Eastern Europe and was appointed Global Category Officer, Surface, Dish global ERP and supply chain systems, including SAP.
Prior to this, Darrell and Homecare before being appointed EVP North America & Australia.
spent five years with Vodafone in a number of increasingly senior roles Rob is now responsible for North America, Central Europe, Northern culminating as global director information technology, strategy and Europe, Southern Europe and Western Europe and headquartered in planning.
He also spent five years with Ernst & Young as a programme Amsterdam.
As part of RBs new strategy for continued outperformance, manager and two years with Mars Inc. as business systems manager.
in January 2012 Rob became EVP of the newly amended ENA Area, which in January 2015 was enlarged to also include Australia, New Zealand, Russia and Israel.
Deborah Yates Senior Vice President, Human Resources nationality: Australian Joined RB in 2004 in the Australian business.
Deb has worked in Australia, US, UK and Netherlands since joining RB.
She was appointed Global Human Resources Director HRD Finance and IS in 2009, Regional HRD ANZ in 2011, Regional HRD North America in 2012 and Area HRD Europe and North America in 2013.
In December 2014 Deb was appointed SVP HR.
Before joining RB, Deb worked in a variety of industries in HR in Australia including News Limited, George Weston Foods Limited and Qantas Airways Limited.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 35
