Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance to complement the Board with a broad range of skills and diversity whilst ensuring that appointments were on merit and would bring added benefits to the Company and its stakeholders.
The experience added to the Board includes global markets, digital, FMCG, pharmaceuticals and healthcare.
Additional information on the process taken and details of the new additions to the Board are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 42.
Ensuring the successful integration of our new Board members and facilitating operational continuity and a cohesive transition of Board and Board committee responsibilities will be a key focus for the Board during 2015.
For this reason, we have asked Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser to remain on the Board for an additional year, to the Annual General Meeting in May 2016, and to continue to serve as the chairs of their respective committees, Audit and Remuneration.
Ken and Judys experience and expertise will ensure that your Board continues to deliver the guidance, direction and oversight that you expect.
As part of the review of the Boards effectiveness, the documents setting out the matters reserved for the Board and the delegations to the CEO, together with the terms of reference for the Board Committees, were reviewed to ensure they continue to reflect the spirit and emphasis of the AdriAn BellAmy Chairman Code and remain fit for purpose and relevant to how RB operates.
effectiveness The 2014 evaluation of the Boards performance was undertaken internally We continue to focus on strong and built on the outcomes of the externally facilitated evaluation in 2013.
The Board took proactive steps during 2014 to address recommended corporate governance, as we see it as a improvements on governance and Board succession matters.
The necessary requirement for commercial performance evaluation for 2014 followed the same criteria and questions from 2013 to provide a fair comparison between years and to measure the success.
input of new Board members.
In addition to new Board members, the Company welcomed two new members of the Executive Committee, building on its existing strength Introduction and experience.
Darrell Stein joined from Marks & Spencer plc as SVP Good corporate governance is a key element of our business success and Information Systems following the departure of Gareth Hill, and Deborah remains a driver for the effective and prudent delivery of long-term success Yates joined as SVP Human Resources in view of Simon Nashs retirement.
addition, Roberto Funari assumed a new role, EVP, Category Development Organisation in view of Heather Allens expected departure.
Additional This year we again report against the UK Corporate Governance Code the information on RBs succession planning activities at senior management Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012, levels can be found on page 18 of the Strategic Report.
This disclosure which was applicable to the Company throughout the financial year.
I am includes the requirement under the Companies Act 2006 to report pleased to report that standards of compliance remain high and your specifically on the gender split for the Board, senior managers and total Board continues to strive to mitigate the minimal areas of perceived employee numbers.
The Company operates within a corporate diversity and inclusion policy leadership framework adopted and reviewed by the Executive Committee.
The Board The Board believes that conducting RBs business in an ethical manner and continues to promote diversity in its broadest sense and to ensure that the safeguarding Shareholders investments through high corporate Companys Top40 executive roles, in particular, are open to fresh thinking governance standards and business performance are fundamental to and include personnel from different global backgrounds who bring new achieving RBs vision and upholding its values.
Good corporate governance ideas to the table.
The Company values its freedom to retain a group of is the starting point that enables the Board and executive management to people who, collectively, have the skills, experience and insight to entrepreneurially direct the Group to deliver effective and prudent implement the Companys global vision and objectives and achieve long-term success that benefits our Shareholders and maintains the trust long-term value growth.
FCA investigation As I shared in my statement to you last year, the Board has been particularly The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has fined RB 539,800 in relation focused on strengthening and refreshing its composition.
All Non-Executive to historic procedural lapses in the disclosure of executive share dealings.
Directors joined the Nomination Committee to ensure that each Directors RB acknowledges the error and has already implemented measures to input into the selection process was comprehensive.
2014 was a year of improve its internal processes that address the FCAs concerns.
significant change in our Non-Executive membership: in addition to Nicandro Durante who was appointed to the Board in December 2013, three RB identified missing disclosures from historic share dealings and additional members were appointed: Jaspal Bindra and Sue Shim in July immediately notified the UKLA in late September 2012.
RB distributed a 2014 and Doug Tough in November 2014.
A further three Non-Executive corrective notice to the markets on 8 October 2012.
RB works hard to Directors, Mary Harris, Pam Kirby and Chris Sinclair were appointed in maintain close and positive relationships with its regulators and we February 2015.
As a Board, we have taken a considered and measured continue to have a strong relationship with the FCA.
approach to ensure we recruit the right calibre of candidates.
We sought RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 30
