Corporate Governance Directors Statement of Responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report its future development, performance and position are set out in the and the Financial Statements in accordance with Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27.
The financial position of the Group and applicable law and regulations.
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting described in the Strategic Report on page 24 and in note 14 to the Group Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company Financial Statements.
Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and The Group has considerable financial resources together with a diverse applicable law.
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, the Directors customer and supplier base across different geographical Areas and have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International categories.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group and Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors Company are well placed to manage their business risks successfully must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements in accordance make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable with the FRCs Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance For Directors and prudent: of UK Companies 2009.
This statement is also made to fulfil the state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued requirements of Listing Rules 9.8.
10R 1 and C. 1.3 of by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, the Code.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company Financial Statements respectively: disclosure of information to Auditors prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, state that: is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue 1 So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information in business.
of which the Auditors are unaware: and 2 Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the information.
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the By Order of the Board Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding WilliAm mordAn Company Secretary the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 103105 Bath Road The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Company registration number: 6270876 legislation in other jurisdictions.
19 March 2015 The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 32 to 34 confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge: The Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In addition, the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the performance, business model and strategy.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 63
