Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report Committee membership and meetings In the past year the Board added Until November 2013, the Nomination Committee comprised the Chairman, who also chairs the Committee, the CEO, the Deputy Chairman, to its membership a broad array of the Senior Independent Director and the Chair of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Following its meeting in November 2013, the experienced, international executives, Board agreed that the composition of the Nomination Committee would be increased to include all Non-Executive Directors.
Four meetings, also with new appointments that reflect attended by Rakesh Kapoor as CEO, were held during 2014 and details of the nature of RBs business.
Directors attendance at Committee meetings are set out on page 36.
Specific areas of review and action taken by the Committee during 2014 AdriAn BellAmy Chair of Nomination Committee are discussed in this report.
No individual participated in discussions or decisions relating to him or her personally.
The Board has delegated authority to the Committee through its terms of reference, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
Introduction by Chair of the Committee responsibilities The Committee plays a key role in facilitating the success of the Company Nomination Committee by reviewing the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and experience and 2014 was a significant and busy year for the Committee as it continued recommending strong candidates for the Boards consideration.
It provides and increased its focus on the refresh of the composition of the Board with a formal and transparent procedure for making recommendations for the particular emphasis on Non-Executive Director succession.
The profile appointment of new directors with support from external consultants drawn up for additions to the membership of the Board focused on key who advise on prospective appointees.
The Committee is responsible for elements such as: the ability to chair a committee: experience in digital, succession planning within the Board and for the oversight of all matters pharmaceuticals and healthcare: people who have been, or are, CEOs and relating to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of those with significant global experience with due recognition given to the Board.
creating a Board that is truly diverse, considering nationality, ethnicity and gender.
With the appointment of seven new Directors in the past 18 months, the Board has focused on ensuring that each new member has the time, resources and support to learn about RB, its management and the function of the Board itself.
The newest members of the Board represent a new Committee Activities During 2014 range of professional and personal experience that is certain to add further diversity and new perspectives to its operation and all of them bring valuable insights that will undoubtedly contribute to the leadership of RB.
key matters 2014 Committee Actions Consideration of the Recommendations for the appointments of Andr Lacroix, in his capacity as Senior Independent Director, has been current and future Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim and Doug Tough as leading the Chairman succession planning process.
A framework of composition of the additional Non-Executive Directors during 2014. attributes and demanding specifications has been drawn up and the Board review of potential candidates is underway.
With the continued service Chairman succession Led by Andr Lacroix as Senior Independent of Ken Hydon as Chair of the Audit Committee and Judy Sprieser as planning Director, agreeing the specifications for Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee has the candidates.
flexibility and time to address the succession planning for those committees Constitution of Board Review of the constitution and recommendations as well as Chairman succession in an orderly and thoughtful manner.
committees for Nicandro Durantes appointment to the Remuneration Committee and Sue Shim and Additional information on the activities of the Committee including details Jaspal Bindras appointments to the Audit of the process leading to the appointment of the new Directors, including Committee.
the services received from Egon Zehnder Limited, are set out in this report.
directors conflicts of Review of the other directorships of Board interest members, approving Adrian Hennahs AdriAn BellAmy Chair of Nomination Committee appointment to Indivior PLC.
Performance evaluation Evaluation of the Committees performance during 2014 and a review of the composition of the Committee.
Terms of reference and Review of the terms of reference in light of corporate governance recent changes to the Code.
changes Additional Board Mary Harris, Pam Kirby and Chris Sinclair appointments appointed as additional Non-Executive Directors with effect from 10 February 2015.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 42 Corporate Governance Board appointments directors conflicts of interest There were three Non-Executive Director appointments during 2014.
Sue The Committee is responsible for the Companys procedures for dealing Shim and Jaspal Bindra were appointed with effect from 1 July 2014 and with Directors conflicts of interest and these procedures have operated Doug Tough was appointed with effect from 1 November 2014.
Mary effectively during the year.
A register of Directors conflicts is maintained Harris, Pam Kirby and Chris Sinclair were appointed as additional Nonby the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board at least annually.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and any changes to these commitments are reported to the Board.
director search and appointment process The process leading up to the appointments of Sue Shim and Jaspal Bindra Focus for 2015 in July 2014 and Doug Tough in November 2014 commenced with the appointment of Egon Zehnder Limited Egon Zehnder who worked with The Board will continue to assist its new members with their introduction the Chairman and the Board to put together a profile based on the Boards to RB, with particular focus on the culture and unique operating model consensus of the key attributes required.
A significant number of CVs were that has made RB a successful multinational company.
In addition to shared with Board members and the Chairman personally interviewed general induction, the Nomination Committee will focus specifically around 20 candidates.
Other Board members were also involved in the on future composition of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, interview process.
Following these appointments, it was determined that suitable candidates to serve as Chairs of those committees and additional skills and diversity was still required on the Board with an Chairman succession.
emphasis on finding non-conflicted candidates with a healthcare background.
Additional work was undertaken for the process leading up to the appointments of Mary Harris, Pam Kirby and Chris Sinclair which were announced on 23 January 2015.
A shortlist of additional candidates was reviewed by the Committee together with the specific skills and experience offered by each candidate.
The key elements the Committee considered in making the final appointment decisions included Committee Chair experience, pharmaceutical, strategic and international experience, private investment, technology and entrepreneurial skills, together with cultural fit.
Board diversity The Board has worked hard to ensure that it is composed of Directors from different backgrounds with diverse skills, experience, perspectives, knowledge and personalities as it remains confident that diversity of industry skills, knowledge and experience, in addition to gender and ethnicity, engenders an effective, high performing organisation and contributes to the success of RBs business.
It enables the business to better understand its opportunities and risks and to develop robust solutions to them.
Recent appointments demonstrate that the Board has made good progress in terms of diversity in its broadest sense whilst ensuring that all appointments are made on merit and fill perceived skills gaps on the Board.
other Committee activities The Committee considered the composition of the Board committees at its July meeting and, in light of recent Board appointments, recommended the appointment of Nicandro Durante to the Remuneration Committee noting that his membership would be particularly helpful as he was a sitting CEO dealing with the realities of remuneration and facing similar issues to those at the Company.
Jaspal Bindra and Sue Shim were recommended for appointment to the Audit Committee.
Jaspals financial background was noted as relevant to the Committee and it was agreed that Sue could provide an interesting perspective to Committee deliberations.
Membership of the Audit Committee would also be of value to Sue as part of her induction into RB.
The Committee undertook an evaluation of its performance and discussed its conduct and remit and came to the conclusion that it continued to undertake its activities appropriately and in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Committee also considered whether the composition of the Committee should be altered and concluded that all Non-Executive Directors should continue to be members of the Committee.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 43
