Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Committee responsibilities Our key focus is to ensure the integrity The Committee forms an integral part of the Groups governance framework and plays a fundamental role in monitoring and reviewing of RBs financial reporting, internal aspects of management and auditors conduct that can impact Shareholders financially.
It assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight controls framework and risk responsibilities for the Groups financial reporting, internal and external audit, risk management and regulatory compliance.
The Audit Committee reviews the process by which we evaluate our ken hydon Chair of the Audit Committee control environment and risk assessment process, and the way in which significant business risks are managed.
It also considers our Internal Audit functions reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant frauds and any fraud that involved management or employees with a Introduction by Chair of the significant role in internal controls.
The Audit Committee also reviews and approves arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns Audit Committee about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other In 2014, the Committee monitored how the 2013 changes to the UK matters.
This is achieved through using a third party reporting facility Governance Code with respect to Shareholder information being fair, which accommodates telephone, web and email contacts and allows balanced and understandable were embedded in the Companys anonymity on request.
Throughout the year, the Committee focused on providing reassurance to Oversight role of the Audit Committee the Board on the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, internal Financial reporting controls framework and risk management processes.
The Committee met Reviews the interim and full year Financial Statements before with operational management including legal, regulatory, IT and risk, and submission to the full Board.
local management when the Board visited North America.
As the year progressed the Committee discussed updates on the significant issues set Considers significant legal claims and regulatory issues.
out on page 45. risk management and internal controls The Committee recognises that independent and effective auditors are Reviews compliance procedures and RBs overall risk framework essential.
The Internal Audit plan is risk-based and the Head of Internal including the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
Audit has dual reporting lines to myself and the CFO.
The Committee Considers operational risk and control processes covering assurance conducted a thorough review of PwCs effectiveness and value for money.
providers, geographical and functional areas.
The Committee is also conscious of the CMA and EU recommendations on audit tendering and rotation.
Monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control.
I was pleased to welcome Jaspal and Sue to the Committee and am confident they will bring fresh perspectives and add to the substantial internal audit contributions of Andr and Warren.
Approval of Internal Audits annual plan.
Review of Internal Audit activities, significant recommendations and ken hydon Chair of the Audit Committee findings and related management actions.
Effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Committee membership and meetings The Audit Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive Directors: external audit Ken Hydon, Chairman since 16 November 2006: Andr Lacroix, Diploma, Makes recommendations to the Board regarding the Auditors and the ESCP: Warren Tucker, BSc Economics & Accounting, Master of Business terms of appointment.
Administration MBA, ACA: Jaspal Bindra, qualified Chartered Accountant and MBA: and Sue Shim, Harvard Business School Advanced Management Reviews and monitors the Auditors independence and services Program.
The composition of the Committee was refreshed in early August supplied and the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
2014 with the appointments of Jaspal Bindra, who brings significant financial experience and Sue Shim, who the Board believes will bring a 2014 progress and activities useful perspective to the Committee deliberations.
Ken Hydon, FCMA, The Committee met four times during 2014 with meetings timed to FCCA, FCT, was CFO of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005, Warren coincide with the Companys financial and reporting cycles.
Details of Tucker was CFO of Cobham plc until May 2013 and Jaspal Bindra is a Committee members attendance at meetings is set out on page 36.
The qualified Chartered Accountant and MBA.
Therefore, they are all principal activities of the Committee related to financial reporting, internal considered as having relevant and recent financial experience.
RBs control, risk management and external audit.
The Committee considered Auditors, Group Head of Internal Audit and CFO attend meetings and have detailed risk and control reviews for selected Group major risks covering regular private meetings with and direct access to the Committee.
The business transformation, regulatory compliance, data privacy, business Chairman and CEO are invited to attend all of the meetings and other continuity planning, legal and tax disputes, quality assurance and bribery.
senior management attend Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The It monitored whistleblowing activities and the application of the policy for Committee held four meetings during 2014 and the attendance of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
members at the meetings is set out on page 36.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 44 Corporate Governance The Committee approved the terms of engagement and reviewed the Tax provisioning strategy, scope and effectiveness of the Auditors including the findings of From time to time the Group is involved in disputes in relation to their work during the year.
It also discussed the topic of an audit re-tender ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world and rotation of auditor together with the prohibition under EU legislation where the approach of the authorities is particularly difficult to predict.
of the non-audit services which the auditor could provide the precise list Where appropriate, provisions are made based on an assessment of of which is still to be finalised by each member state.
The level of provisioning for these tax investigations is an Committee reviewed its terms of reference, the annual Standing Agenda, issue where management and tax judgement is important.
The the work and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and completed Committee has debated with management the key judgements made, its annual performance evaluation.
Regular technical updates to keep including relevant professional advice that may have been received in abreast of changes in financial reporting and governance matters were each case, and considers the tax provisioning levels to be appropriate.
provided to the Committee throughout the year.
Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets Management performs an annual impairment review for goodwill The Audit Committee has considered the following areas of significant and other intangible assets with indefinite lives.
This is important given judgement, complexity or estimation in relation to the 2014 Group the significance of these items to the Groups Balance Sheet.
Key Financial Statements: judgements include estimates of future business performance and cash Acquisition accounting - valuation of acquired intangible assets generation, discount rates and long-term growth rates refer to note 9 In May 2014 the Group completed its acquisition of the K-Y brand from in the Group Financial Statements for further detail.
The Committee Johnson and Johnson.
The Committee has reviewed papers prepared has reviewed managements analysis, including an assessment of the by management addressing the accounting treatment applied.
Based discount rates used, the appropriateness of specific risk factors applied on this review the Committee is comfortable that accounting for the to individual and groups of cash generating units, as well as the transaction is appropriate.
As a result of this review the Accounting for the demerger of RBP Committee is comfortable with managements conclusion that no impairment is required and that the indefinite life of the Groups Following the strategic review of the RB Pharmaceuticals business, the Powerbrands and certain other brand intangible assets continues business was subsequently demerged in December 2014 and listed to be appropriate.
The Committee has reviewed papers prepared by management addressing the significant accounting and Legal liability provisioning reporting aspects of the demerger on the results of the Group.
Key In 2013, the Group recognised certain legal provisions relating to accounting and reporting implications of the demerger include the historical regulatory investigations by various government authorities calculation of the associated gain, as well as the presentation of the totalling 222m.
At 31 December 2014, a provision of 159m remained business as a discontinued operation.
Based on this review, the on the balance sheet in relation to these matters.
The level of Committee is comfortable that the accounting for the demerger, provisioning for these regulatory investigations is an issue where and its presentation in the Financial Statements, are appropriate.
management and legal judgement is important.
The Committee has discussed with management the key judgements made, including relevant legal advice received, and agreed that provisioning levels are appropriate.
Committee Activities During 2014 Exceptional items The Committee has considered the presentation of the Group Financial Statements, and, in particular, the presentation of exceptional items key matters 2014 Committee Actions and the items included within such measures.
The Committee has Policy definition of Review of the policy definition for exceptional discussed this with management and agreed that the presentation exceptional items items to ensure parameters were clear and provides more meaningful information to Shareholders about the consistently applied and would, consequently, underlying performance of the Group.
deliver improved information to investors Trade spend accruals Classification and Corporate reports to clearly distinguish materiality exceptional items from charges more Trade spend is a significant expense for the Group, and the main of provisions appropriately recorded to underlying profits judgements relate to trade accruals, specifically the timing and extent to which temporary promotional activity has occurred.
The Upgrade of the Groups Review of ERP strategy for factory and Committee has reviewed with management its assessment of the erP programme commercial units and monitoring of risk and control environment and the findings of Internal Audit relating to control aspects through deployment to deliver anticipated benefit for the business trade spend.
It is the Committees view that management operates an appropriate control environment which minimises the risks in Cyber security Monitoring the cyber security risks relevant to this area.
the Group and reviewing regular updates on steps taken to strengthen the Groups protection against cyber attacks Whistleblowing hotline Reviewed the recommendation for, and provider supervised, a change in provider Accounting treatment Approved the accounting treatment of M&A of acquisitions and items such as the acquisition of K-Y and disposal disposals of RBP Boards visit to San Reviewed the North America business unit, in Francisco and Salt lake particular, local handling of various issues such City as risks and controls, logistics, business controls, audit reports and financial controls, product risk, anti-bribery and corruption, whistleblowing and its Finance team RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 45 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report external audit and external Auditors appointment The Companys published policy on non-audit fees states that, on an PwC have been the sole Auditors of RB since 2000, the year after the annual basis, non-audit fees should not normally be in excess of 50% of merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. in 1999, and the the Groups external audit and audit-related fees on an aggregate basis.
Companys Auditors since its formation in 2007.
At the time of the merger, The Board confirms that, for the year ended 31 December 2014, non-audit PwC were the auditors of Reckitt & Colman plc and Deloitte LLP were the fees were less than 50% of the audit and audit-related fees.
A copy of auditor of Benckiser N. V. Post-merger, the Audit Committee undertook a the Companys Non-Audit Fees Policy is available on its website at review and subsequently selected PwC as Auditors for the Group for the www.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the Auditors works well and the Committee remains The performance of PwC and the effectiveness of the external audit process satisfied with their independence and effectiveness.
It has, accordingly, not were reviewed by way of a questionnaire with members of the Committee, considered it necessary to require the firm to tender for the audit work, Executive Directors and senior management.
All respondents were invited to although this is kept under review annually.
It is a requirement that the rate PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas including audit plan and audit partner responsible for audit is rotated every five years and the lead strategy, audit findings and feedback, independence and objectivity and audit partner was rotated off during 2013.
We are aware of the regulatory resourcing and expertise.
The review led to the conclusion that PwC and the requirements on audit tendering and rotation.
Our current expectation is external audit process were effective and that PwC provide a robust that our audit tender process will commence no later than 2019.
There are challenge of management actions.
no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of Auditors.
Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee, and in accordance RB has a formal policy in place to safeguard Auditors independence.
The with section 489 of the 2006 Act, a resolution proposing the reAudit Committee and the CFO keep the independence and objectivity of appointment of PwC as the Companys Auditors will be put to the the Auditors under review.
The Committee reviews the nature and level of Shareholders at the AGM.
non-audit services undertaken by the Auditors during the year to satisfy itself that there is no impact on their independence.
The Board recognises The Auditors Report to the Audit Committee on the actions they take to that in certain circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it comply with professional and regulatory requirements and with best more timely and cost effective to appoint the Auditors who already has a practice designed to ensure their independence from RB, including good understanding of RB.
periodic rotation of the audit engagement partners.
Details of non-audit services are set out in note 4 on page 85.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 46
