Corporate Governance RB Board of Directors Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Bellamy Jaspal Bindra Nicandro Durante Peter Harf Mary Harris Adrian Hennah Ken Hydon Dr Pam Kirby Andr Lacroix Sue Shim CEO Chairman NED NED NED NED CFO NED NED NED NED indian British indian Brazilian italian German British British British British French South korean Nationality of origin nomination Chair of nomination Audit Committee nomination nomination nomination none Chair of Audit nomination Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee membership nomination nomination Committee nomination Committee remuneration Committee remuneration nomination Committee Committee Committee Joined the Board Appointed a NonAppointed to the Board Joined the Board of Joined the Board as a Appointed as NonJoined RB in January Appointed a NonAppointed as NonAppointed a NonAppointed to the Board Experience and in September Executive Director in as a Non-Executive RB in December 2013.
Non-Executive Director Executive Director in 2013 and was appointed Executive Director in Executive Director in Executive Director of of RB as a Non-Executive length of tenure 2011 following his 1999 and Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2014.
Following a career in December 1999 and February 2015.
Director on 1 July appointment as CEO of Chairman in May 2003.
Jaspal joined Standard working in finance in is the Deputy Chairman.
was formerly a Partner Prior to joining RB, of the Audit Committee formerly CEO of Quintiles Andr became the Senior 2014.
Sue has extensive the Company.
Rakesh Adrian was formerly Chartered in 1998 and Brazil, Nicandro joined He served as Chairman at McKinsey & Company, Adrian spent six years in November 2006.
Senior Transnational Corporation Independent Director consumer goods joined RB in 1987 Chairman of The Body held senior positions British American Tobacco of the Remuneration with a particular at Smith & Nephew plc Independent Director and held senior positions in June 2013.
He was experience in a range and served in various Shop International in the company such plc BAT in 1981.
He Committee until June focus on consumer as CFO and four years between February 2005 at AstraZeneca PLC and previously Chairman and of product categories regional and central plc.
Other previous as Global Head of has had an extensive 2004.
Peter is a Senior and retail businesses as CFO at Invensys plc.
Chief Executive Officer and cultures, and held marketing roles.
He directorships include The Client Relationship career with BAT working Partner of JAB Holding in China, South East Adrian also spent 18 Kens experience in finance of Euro Disney S. C. A. senior positions in Proctor was appointed EVP Gap Inc, Gucci Group NV for Wholesale Bank in the UK, Hong Kong Company s. a. r. l. JAB, Asia, and Europe.
She years at GlaxoSmithKline and business includes Prior to this he was the & Gamble, including Category Development and The Robert Mondavi before appointment and Brazil, including a privately held group is a graduate of the plc, holding a number working in the electronics, President of Burger King Marketing Director, in 2006 with Corporation.
to his current position holding the positions focused on long-term University of Oxford MA of senior management retail, consumer products International, previously Cosmetics & Skincare in responsibility for global of Group Executive of Regional Director for investments in companies Politics, Philosophy and and financial roles.
part of Diageo, and also North East Asia, Global category management, Director to the Board Africa and Middle East with premium brands, Economics and Harvard His earlier career was Ken was formerly CFO held positions at Colgate, Marketing Director of R&D, media, market in January 2010.
His and COO before being attractive growth and Business School.
with PwC then Price of Vodafone Group plc PepsiCo and Ernst & Feminine Care and Skin research and strategic earlier career was with appointed to his current strong margin dynamics.
Waterhouse in both and a former Director Young LLP.
Care in the USA prior alliances.
UBS Investment Banking role of CEO.
Nicandro He joined JAB in 1981, audit and consultancy, of Tesco plc.
He is a to joining Samsung and Bank of America holds degrees in finance, serving the group in a and Stadtsparkasse Fellow of the Chartered Electronics.
Sue has been where he worked across economics and business variety of capacities, Koeln, the German Institute of Management Global Chief Marketing Treasury Markets and administration.
Accountants, the Officer of Samsung Consumer Banking in and Chief Executive Association of Chartered Electronics for four years, India and Singapore.
Jaspal is a qualified was formerly Chairman and the Association of Chartered Accountant of Coty inc. and has Corporate Treasurers.
and Master of Business previously been the Administration MBA.
Chairman of AnheuserBusch InBev and a Director of Burger King Holdings, Inc. None.
Chairman of WilliamsGroup Executive Director Chief Executive Officer of Senior Partner of JAB, Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of Scynexis, Group Chief Executive of EVP of Samsung Current external Sonoma Inc. to the Board of Standard BAT since March 2011.
Chairman of Jimmy Choo Director of ITV plc and of Reed Elsevier PLC, of Pearson plc and Merlin Inc and a Non-Executive Inchcape plc until March Electronics, Korea.
Jaspal PLC, Belstaff Group SA J Sainsbury plc.
Member Reed Elsevier NV and Entertainments plc.
Director of DCC plc, 2015 and Chairman of appointments also sits on the Board & Bally International of Supervisory Boards of Indivior PLC.
Victrex plc and Hikma Good Restaurants AG.
of Governors of XLRI SA, Co-Founder and Unibail-Radmco SE, TNT Pharmaceuticals PLC.
Chief Executive Officer of Business School, is a Executive Chairman of Express NV and Scotch Intertek Group plc being member of the City of Delete Blood Cancer and Soda NV.
London Advisory Council DKMS Tubingen, for India and a Board Germany, a Board Director of US-India member of Peets Coffee Business Council.
& Tea Inc. a Board member of D. E. Master Blenders 1753 B. V. and a Director of Coty Inc. RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 32 Corporate Governance Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Bellamy Jaspal Bindra Nicandro Durante Peter Harf Mary Harris Adrian Hennah Ken Hydon Dr Pam Kirby Andr Lacroix Sue Shim CEO Chairman NED NED NED NED CFO NED NED NED NED indian British indian Brazilian italian German British British British British French South korean Nationality of origin nomination Chair of nomination Audit Committee nomination nomination nomination none Chair of Audit nomination Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee membership nomination nomination Committee nomination Committee remuneration Committee remuneration nomination Committee Committee Committee Joined the Board Appointed a NonAppointed to the Board Joined the Board of Joined the Board as a Appointed as NonJoined RB in January Appointed a NonAppointed as NonAppointed a NonAppointed to the Board Experience and in September Executive Director in as a Non-Executive RB in December 2013.
& Tea Inc. a Board member of D. E. Master Blenders 1753 B. V. and a Director of Coty Inc. RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Corporate Governance RB Board of Directors Chris Sinclair Judy Sprieser Doug Tough Warren Tucker NED NED NED NED American American Canadian British Nationality of origin nomination Committee nomination Committee nomination Committee Audit Committee Committee membership Chair of remuneration remuneration Committee nomination Committee Committee Appointed as Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board of RB Appointed as Non-Executive Experience and Director in February 2015.
Director in August 2003 and has as a Non-Executive Director Director in February 2010. length of tenure Chris was previously Executive been Chair of the Remuneration on 1 November 2014.
Doug Warren was formerly Chief Chairman of Scandent Committee since June 2004. was formerly Chairman and Financial Officer of Cobham Holdings, Executive Chairman Judy was previously CEO of CEO of International Flavors plc.
He previously held senior of Cambridge Solutions Transora Inc. and Executive & Fragrances Inc, which he finance positions at Cable Ltd, Chairman and CEO of Vice President of Sara Lee joined in 2010.
Prior to that, he & Wireless plc and British Caribiner International, and Corporation and CFO of Sara served as CEO and MD of Ansell Airways plc.
He is a Chartered President and CEO at Quality Lees Food Group.
His earlier career was in Accountant.
Earlier Bachelors and Masters degree a variety of executive positions in his career, he held various from Northwestern University.
senior management positions with PepsiCo, including Chairman and CEO of Pepsi Cola Co. and Chairman of PepsiCo International Foods and Beverages, which gave him the platform to showcase his strong global branding skills.
Chris is a graduate of the University of Kansas Business Administration and the Tuck School at Dartmouth College.
Chairman and Interim CEO of Director and Vice Chairman Director of Molson Coors Director of Thomas Cook Current external Mattel, Inc. at Royal Ahold NV, Director of Brewing Company.
Group PLC and Non-Executive Allstate Corporation, Director of Director and Chairman of appointments InterContinental Exchange.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 34
