Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Financial statements Accounting policies continued In respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme and the impact of this standard, and will adopt this for the first time for the instruments, bring into effect a substantial overhaul of hedge d. Cash and cash equivalents GPP, contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense year beginning 1 July 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU.
accounting that will allow entities to better reflect their risk Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
The Group has no further payment obligations in management activities in the financial statements.
Effective for Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, forming an integral IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
This standard builds respect of the above once the contributions have been paid.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 but no date set yet for part of the Groups cash management are included as a component on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the endorsement by the EU.
of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of determining factor in whether an entity should be included within b.
The standard provides Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
These amendments The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where additional guidance to assist in determining control where this is address the disclosure of information about the recoverable amount contractually obliged.
e. Borrowings and trade payables difficult to assess.
This new standard might impact the entities that a of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs of Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded when c. Share-based payments group consolidates as its subsidiaries.
Effective for periods beginning disposal.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 the proceeds are received, net of transaction costs incurred and The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based on or after 1 January 2013 and endorsed by the EU for periods and endorsed by the EU in December 2013. subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This is not expected to have net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November a material impact on the Group financial statements and will be income statement over the period of the borrowings.
measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting.
2002, which had not vested as of 1 July 2004.
Equity settled adopted for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2014.
These narrow-scope amendments allow hedge accounting to share-based payments are measured at fair value on the date of Onerous contracts IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
This standard provides for a more continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable costs in realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
There are counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are benefits expected to be received under it.
Provision is made to reflect d. Termination benefits two types of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures.
met in this context, a novation indicates that parties to a contract managements best current estimate of the least net cost of either Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated Joint operations arise where a joint operator has rights to the assets agree to replace their original counterparty with a new one.
This relief fulfilling or exiting the contract.
by the Group before normal retirement date by redundancy.
and obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for has been introduced in response to legislative changes across many These benefits are recognised by the Group in the period in which it Share capital its interest in assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures jurisdictions that would lead to the widespread novation of over-thebecomes demonstrably committed to terminating the employment Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
arise where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the counter derivatives.
These legislative changes were prompted by a of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without arrangement and hence equity accounts for its interest.
Proportional G20 commitment to improve transparency and regulatory oversight Dividend distribution possibility of withdrawal.
consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed.
Not expected of over-the-counter derivatives in an internationally consistent and Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as to be relevant to the Group, but is effective 1 January 2013 and non-discriminatory way.
Similar relief will be included in IFRS 9, Financial instruments a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Effective for periods beginning on or after a.
Land creditors the dividends are declared.
1 January 2014 and endorsed by the EU in December 2013.
Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities.
This standard Impact of new standards and interpretations present value using the effective interest method, in accordance with includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other Amendment to IAS 19 regarding defined benefit plans.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal value is entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose scope amendments apply to contributions from employees or third IFRS 13 Fair value measurement.
This standard aims to improve amortised over the deferment period via financing costs.
vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
Not expected to be parties to defined benefit plans.
The objective of the amendments is consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of relevant to the Group, but is effective 1 January 2013 and endorsed to simplify the accounting for contributions that are independent of The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. the number of years of employee service, for example, employee date of the land purchase.
requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely contributions that are calculated according to a fixed percentage of Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12.
These amendments also aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair salary.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but b.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting provide additional transition relief in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12, limiting the value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied no date set yet for endorsement by the EU.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value and requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only the where its use is already required or permitted by other standards the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
For disclosures related to unconsolidated Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an within IFRS or US GAAP.
Effective for periods beginning on or after structured entities, the amendments will remove the requirement to interest in a joint operation.
This amendment adds new guidance on The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an interest rate 1 January 2013. present comparative information for periods before IFRS 12 is first how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation risk management framework adopted by the Board which sets IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and that constitutes a business.
The amendments specify the appropriate parameters to ensure an appropriate level of hedging is maintained to makes significant changes to the recognition and measurement of endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. accounting treatment for such acquisitions.
Effective for periods manage interest rate risk in respect of borrowings.
defined benefit pension expense and termination benefits, and to beginning on or after 1 January 2016 but no date set yet for IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements.
This standard The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial instruments or the disclosures for all employee benefits.
The changes affect most endorsement by the EU.
includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left their use for speculative purposes.
They could significantly change a number after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS of performance indicators and might also significantly increase the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative IFRS 10.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and 38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation.
In this volume of disclosures.
This is effective for annual periods beginning financial instruments which are designated and which qualify as cash endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. amendment the IASB has clarified that the use of revenue based on or after 1 January 2013. flow hedges are recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
The methods to calculate the depreciation of an asset is not appropriate IAS 28 revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures.
This standard gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the b.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but because revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of an includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, income statement immediately they arise.
not effective for the financial year beginning 1 July 2013 and asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
Effective for not early adopted economic benefits embodied in the asset.
The IASB has also clarified c. Loans and receivables periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and endorsed by the IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification and measurement.
This that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis for Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. standard on classification and measurement of financial assets and measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in an determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They financial liabilities will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two measurement Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, on intangible asset.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
This amendment 2016 but no date set yet for endorsement by the EU.
months after the balance sheet date which are classified as nonmeasured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised updates the application guidance in IAS 32, Financial instruments: current assets.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
IFRS 15, Revenue cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows Presentation, to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
from contracts with customers is a converged standard from the IASB and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
For liabilities, financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
Effective and FASB on revenue recognition.
The standard will improve the Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less any the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
These for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and endorsed by financial reporting of revenue and improve comparability of the top line impairment.
The amount is then increased to settlement value include amortised-cost accounting for most financial liabilities, with the EU in December 2012. in financial statements globally.
Effective for periods beginning on or over the settlement period via financing income.
Effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2017 but no date set yet for endorsement by the EU.
Amendments to IFRS 9, Financial instruments, regarding general on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group has not assessed the full hedge accounting.
These amendments to IFRS 9, Financial 92 93 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 3.
Net financing costs 2014 2013 Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations m m of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management considers the key sources of estimation Interest payable on bank loans 6.2 3.2 uncertainty and critical accounting judgements relate to: Net interest expenses pension scheme note 7e 0.2 0.1 Carrying value of inventories Imputed interest on deferred land creditors 4.4 4.0 The Group carries inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value less cash on account.
Due to the nature of development timescales, it is routinely necessary to estimate costs to complete and future revenues and to Financial expense 10.8 7.3 allocate non-unit specific development costs between units legally completing in the current financial year and in future periods.
Other interest receivable 3.1 1.7 A full review of the net realisable value of inventories was undertaken by the Group as at 30 June 2014.
Financial income 3.1 1.7 Pensions Net financing costs 7.7 5.6 The Group has utilised assumptions including a rate of return on assets, mortality assumptions and a discount rate having been advised by its actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the retirement benefit 4.
Income tax expense obligations of the Group would change.
Operating profit before financing costs Current tax charge 2014 2013 UK Corporation Tax at 22.50% 2013: 23.75% Note Note m m Deferred tax Operating profit before financing costs is stated after charging: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 29.1 14.3 Exceptional administrative expenses a 1.5 Impact of changes in deferred tax rate 0.8 2.0 Inventories expensed in the year 13 633.1 462.1 Total income tax charge in income statement 29.9 16.3 Depreciation 9 0.9 1.1 Amortisation 8 0.2 0.1 Reconciliation of tax charge for the year Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 Profit before tax 132.6 69.4 Operating leases plant and machinery 1.4 1.5 Tax calculated at UK Corporation Tax rate of 22.50% 2013: 23.75% 29.8 16.5 other 0.3 0.2 Impact of change in deferred tax rate 0.8 2.0 Research and development expenditure 0.4 0.4 Short term temporary differences 0.7 2.2 Auditors remuneration fees payable to Companys Auditors for audit services b i 0.1 0.1 Tax charge for the year 29.9 16.3 fees payable to Companys Auditors for other services b ii 0.1 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity a Exceptional administrative expenses were nil in 2014.
They were 1.5m in 2013 and related to legal and advisory fees incurred Relating to pension scheme 1.6 0.5 in relation to a possible bid for the Company.
1.6 0.5 b Fees payable to Companys Auditors for audit services comprise: i fees payable for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 30,000 2013: 30,000 and fees Current income tax receivable in the Company is 3.0m 2013: 5.7m.
payable for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 111,500 2013: 119,000.
Dividends ii Auditors remuneration for other services comprised 20,000 2013: 20,000 in respect of an independent review of The following dividends were paid by the Group: the half-yearly financial statements Audit related assurance services, 7,333 2013: 6,000 in respect of iXBRL tagging 2014 2013 m m Taxation compliance services and nil 2013: 47,500 in respect of financial modelling development support other non-audit services.
Prior year final dividend per share of 1.0p 2013: nil 3.7 Current year interim dividend per share of 1.0p 2013: nil 3.7 7.4 The Board decided to propose a final dividend of 2.0p per share in respect of 2014 7.4m 2013: 3.7m.
The dividend has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
Prior period results have been restated to reflect the application of IAS 19R Employee Benefits.
94 95 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014
