Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 89 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of Reed Financial reporting Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in conjunction with the Audit In discharging their responsibilities in respect of the 2014 interim Committee of RELX Group plc the Committees and has been and full year financial statements, the Committees have: approved by the respective Boards.
It provides an overview ofthe reviewed and discussed areas of significant judgement in the membership, responsibilities and activities of the Committees.
preparation of the financial statements, including in particular: The functions of an audit committee in respect of the nancing activities were carried out during 2014 by the Supervisory Board i. the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets the ofElsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed significant judgements in respect of asset carrying values Elsevier NV Audit Committees full their roles from the relate to the assumptions underlying the value in use perspective of the parent companies and both Committees have calculations including discount rates and long-term growth access to the reports to and the work of the RELX Group plc Audit assumptions.
The Committees received and discussed Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board reports from the RELX Group plc group Financial Controller in this respect.
on the methodology and the basis of the assumptions used: ii.
capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets Membership thecapitalisation of costs related to the development of The Committees comprise at least three independent new products and business infrastructure, together with Non-Executive Directors.
The members of each of the the useful economic lives applied to the resulting assets, Committees that served during the year are: Ben van der Veer requires the exercise of judgement.
The Committees Chairman of the Committees, Adrian Hennah and Linda Sanford.
received reports from the RELX Group plc group financial Adrian Hennah, a UK chartered accountant, and Ben van der Veer, controller on the amounts capitalised and asset lives a registered accountant in the Netherlands, are considered to selected for major projects: have significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
uncertain tax positions assessing potential liabilities Responsibilities across numerous jurisdictions is complex and requires The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are to assist judgement in making tax determinations.
The Committees the respective boards in fullling their oversight responsibilities received and discussed reports from the RELX Group plc regarding: head of group taxation on the potential liabilities identied and judgements applied: the integrity of the Groups interim and full year financial statements and financial reporting processes: iv.
we operate a number of dened benefit schemes which require management to exercise judgement in estimating risk management and internal controls, and the effectiveness the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benets, of the internal auditors: and especially given the length of each schemes liabilities.
The the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness recognition of certain scheme liabilities is also subject to of the external audit process, including monitoring the judgement.
The Committees received and discussed independence and objectivity of Deloitte.
reports from the RELX Group plc group Financial Controller on the methodology and the basis of the assumptions used.
The Committees report to the respective Boards on their activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they consider The Committees also received detailed written and verbal reports that action or improvement is needed and making from the external auditors on these matters.
The Committees recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
were satisfied with the explanations provided and conclusions reached.
The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed annually and a copy of each is published on the Groups website, reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance with www.
applicable accounting standards and other disclosure requirements and received regular update reports on Committee meetings accounting and regulatory developments: and The Committees met five times during 2014.
The Audit Committee considered whether the Annual Report taken as a whole was meetings are typically attended by the Chief Executive officer, the fair, balanced and understandable.
Chief Financial officer, the RELX Group plc group financial controller, the RELX Group plc chief legal officer, the RELX Risk management and internal controls Groupplc head of audit and risk, and audit partners from the With respect to their oversight of risk management and internal external auditors.
controls, the Committees have: received and discussed regular reports summarising the status of the Groups risk management activities and the findings from internal audit reviews and the actions agreed with management.
Areas of focus in 2014 included: management of investment programmes: post acquisition integration: regulatory compliance and review of information security including the management of data privacy: business 94118 Reed AR p089-090.
indd 89 06 03 2015 12:39 GOVERNANCE 90 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEES continuity planning: and continued compliance with the The Committees have, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the nonrequirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit services provided in 2014, together with the associated fees relating to the documentation and testing of internal controls which are set out in note 3 to the combined financial statements.
over financial reporting: The non-audit services provided were in the areas of audit-related activities such as royalty assurance, tax advice and compliance, reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2014 and due diligence and other transaction-related services.
monitored execution, including progress in respect of recommendations made: The external auditors have confirmed their independence and compliance with the Group policy on auditor independence to the reviewed the resources, terms of reference and effectiveness Audit Committees.
of the RELX Group plc risk management and internal audit functions: Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants BV or their predecessor rms were first appointed auditors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed received presentations from: the RELX Group plc Chief Elsevier NV respectively for the financial year ended 31 December Compliance officer on the compliance programmes, including 1994.
The auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partners the operation of the Groups codes of conduct, training responsible for the audit engagements every five years.
The lead programmes and whistleblowing arrangements: the RELX engagement partners for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Group plc Chief Strategy officer and Chief Legal officer on have both completed one year.
information security and other technology-related risks: and the RELX Group plc Chief Legal officer on legal issues and claims: The Committees have conducted their review of the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external received updates from the RELX Group plc group treasurer on audit process for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The review pension arrangements and funding, treasury policies and risk was based on a survey of key stakeholders across the Group, management and compliance with treasury policies: consideration of public reports by regulatory authorities on key received presentations from the RELX Group plc head of group Deloitte member rms and the quality of the auditors reporting to taxation on tax policies and related matters: and interaction with the Audit Committees.
Based on this review, the Audit Committees were satisfied with the performance of the received regular updates from the Chief Financial officer on auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
developments within the finance function.
The Committees Any decision to open the audit to tender is taken only on the monitored the Chief Financial officer transition to ensure an recommendation of the Audit Committees.
The Committees effective transfer of responsibilities: and continue to monitor regulatory developments in the UK and the received presentations from recently appointed chief financial Netherlands regarding length of audit tenure, tendering and audit ofcers of major businesses.
In light of the transition of the Chief Financial officer and the continued objectivity, independence and effectiveness of External audit effectiveness Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants BV, the Audit Committees The Group has a well-established policy on audit effectiveness concluded that it was neither appropriate or necessary to change and independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the auditors in respect of the 2015 year end.
responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection of auditors to be proposed for appointment or re-appointment and The Committees have, therefore, recommended to the respective for agreement on the terms of their engagement, scope and boards that resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte as remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the the external auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Annual policy on the provision of non-audit services: the rotation of audit General Meetings.
partners and staff: and the conduct of meetings between the We have commenced preparations for an audit tender process auditors and the Audit Committees.
The policy is available on the for rotation of the audit rm in respect of the 2016 financial website, www.
The audit tender is expected to be concluded in mid-2015 and the selected audit rm will be proposed to the Annual The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit General Meetings in 2016.
In accordance with legislation in the services that would compromise their independence or violate Netherlands, Deloitte will not be eligible to participate in this any professional requirements or regulations affecting their tender.
The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which do not conict with their independence, The effectiveness of the Audit Committees was reviewed as part and where their skills and experience make them a logical ofthe 2014 Board evaluation.
supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees.
Non-audit services performed in the Netherlands are limited Ben van der Veer to audit assurance activities.
The Committees will continue to Chairman of the Audit Committees review the policy on the provision of non-audit services in the 25 February 2015 lightof ongoing regulatory developments.
