GOVERNANCE 74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Nominations Committee This report has been prepared by the joint Nominations Composition of the Boards Committee of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and has During the year, the Committee focused on succession planning in been approved by the respective Boards.
relation to the future retirement of long-serving Non-Executive Directors from the Boards, to ensure that, as the Boards are Committee membership refreshed, an appropriate level of experience and knowledge of The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors, and is the Group is maintained and to allow for an orderly transition of chaired by Anthony Habgood.
The other members are Lisa Hook responsibilities.
The Committee met four times during The Committee has established a formal, rigorous and theyear.
transparent procedure for the recruitment of candidates to the Boards and recommendations by the Committee are made on the Role of the Committee basis of a candidates merit, against objective criteria and with due The principal role of the Committee is to provide assistance to the regard for the benets of diversity.
The Committee undertook a Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and RELX Group plc review of the composition of the Boards, focusing on the balance of by identifying individuals qualied to become Directors and skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Group and recommending to the Boards the appointment of such individuals.
The Committee also took into account The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in written terms the Groups strategy to transform the business into a professional of reference available at www.
com and include: information solutions provider.
Following that review, the i to keep under review the size and composition of the Boards Committee drew up a prole of necessary attributes for potential candidates as Non-Executive Directors.
ii to develop and agree the specication for the recruitment of new directors The Committee also recommended to the Boards the re-election of the Directors and in doing so took into account the outcome of iii to procure the recruitment of new directors the Board evaluation.
Details of the 2014 Board evaluation can be iv to recommend to the Boards the appointment of candidates found on page 69. subject, where appropriate, to the approval of shareholders The Boards continued to meet their aspirational goals set in of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV response to the Davies Review, Women on Boards that the v to recommend Directors to serve on the Committees of the Reed Elsevier NV Board would be comprised of 30% women and Boards, having regard to the criteria for service on each the Reed Elsevier PLC Board would be comprised of 22% women.
committee as set out in the terms of reference for such During 2014, the Committee continued to monitor the composition committees, and to recommend members to serve as the of the Boards against these aspirational goals while taking into Chair of those committees account the benets of diversity more generally.
Further details of the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion in its workforce vi to make recommendations to the Boards in relation to the can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 42. election or re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV: and vii to review and make recommendations to the Boards in relation to any Directors actual or potential conicts of interest 94118 Reed AR p061-088.
