Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 75 Directors Remuneration Report Committee determined at the time that prior multi-year plans for The Directors Remuneration Report the Report describes the Executive Directors no longer were best positioned to meet how the Group applies the principles of good governance long-term shareholder interests.
Following consultations with relating to Directors remuneration.
This Report has been over 30 major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, prepared by the Remuneration Committee of RELX Group plc in the Committee determined that a balanced pursuit of sustained accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the UK earnings growth, return on invested capital and shareholder Listing Rules, the Large and Medium-sized Companies and returns was more appropriate.
To achieve this objective, a one-off, Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations five-year plan was implemented, focused on EPS growth, ROIC 2013 the UK Regulations and the Dutch Corporate Governance and TSR with one-third of the award based on each measure.
Theperformance targets, put in place in the context of a volatile The Report was approved by the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, business and economic climate in 2010, were stretching.
Reed Elsevier NV and RELX Group plc.
The Remuneration Policy Since the inception of the REGP, average growth in adjusted was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General earnings pershare for the two performance periods under the Meeting of Reed Elsevier PLC for three years.
The policy can be plan were 7% and 8.5%, ROIC increased from 10.4% to 12.8% found at http: www.
com go remunerationpolicy or andthe ReedElsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV share prices on pages 79 to 85 of the 2013 Remuneration Report.
more than doubled, signicantly outperforming applicable Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders will be invited to vote on our localindices and comparators, adding over 11bn in combined 2014 Annual Remuneration Report by way of a non-binding market capitalisation.
advisory vote at the 2015 Annual General Meeting of Reed The five-year REGP operated in two tranches.
share award with respect to the first tranche vested in H1 2013 at The audited sections of the Report are clearly marked.
66.8% and the second tranche vested on 27 February 2015 at 86%, with TSR targets having been almost fully achieved with respect to the second tranche and EPS and ROIC around the middle of the Introduction from Remuneration target range.
Since the plan was designed to target and reward performance over a five-year period 2010-2014, performance Committee Chairman and total payout need to be assessed over that entireperiod.
As you will read elsewhere in this Annual Report, 2014 was Since 2013 the CEO was the only remaining participant in the REGP another good year of progress for the company.
Management and no other awards have been or will be granted under the plan.
continued to transform the business into a global professional As intended when it was originally adopted, the CEO again information solutions provider that delivers improved outcomes participates in rolling annual grants of three-year performance for professional customers across industries.
The business helps cycle LTIP awards, with awards vesting, subject to performance, customers make better decisions, get better results and be more commencing in 2016. productive.
This is achieved by leveraging a deep understanding of the business' customers to create innovative solutions which 2014 annual incentive payments to the Executive Directors were combine content and data with analytics and technology in global just above target and ROIC and EPS performance in respect of the platforms.
Management continues to build leading positions in 2012-14 cycle of the BIP Bonus Investment Plan and the ESOS long-term global growth markets, primarily through organic Executive Share Option Scheme resulted in respective outcomes investment supplemented by selective acquisitions where the for the CEO close to and at the full amount of the original awards.
business is the natural owner and can accelerate the strategy with Duncan Palmers employment with the Group terminated on good returns.
It continues to divest assets that do not have the 24September 2014 in accordance with the terms previously potential for significant future value creation for the business.
disclosed in the 2013 Remuneration Report.
By consistently following this strategy over a five-year period Nick Luff joined the Group during the year and the performance management has improved the business prole of the Group and shares with a 2013-2014 performance period, which were the quality of earnings.
This has led to more predictable revenues, awarded to him on joining as part compensation for forfeited a higher growth prole and improving returns.
This longer term entitlements from previous employment, vested in full.
performance is reected in the earnings per share EPS, return on invested capital ROIC and total shareholder return TSR As we are not proposing any changes to the Remuneration Policy outcomes under the five-year Reed Elsevier Growth Plan REGP.
which was approved by shareholders in April 2014, it will continue to apply unchanged for 2015.
The second and final performance period of the one-off, discontinued REGP ended on 31 December 2014 and the second In line with increases for the wider employee population, the tranche of the award vested.
The plan was introduced in 2010 Remuneration Committee has approved 2015 salary increases for during a challenging and volatile business environment and in the the Executive Directors of 2.5%.
context of a newly appointed Chief Executive officer CEO.
The This years Report has been prepared in a manner which balances companys underlying revenues had declined, constant currency the specic local requirements of the UK Regulations and the earnings had declined and Reed Elsevier PLCs and Reed Elsevier Dutch Code with the desire to provide additional information which NVs share prices were at for 2009 in contrast to 22% and 36% may be helpful to our broader investor base.
increases in the FTSE100 and AEX indices respectively.
Given the late cycle impact of the global economic crisis on the Wolfhart Hauser businesss professional markets and the then recent acquisition of Chairman, Remuneration Committee the ChoicePoint business, the Remuneration Committee the 94118 Reed AR p061-088.
