GOVERNANCE 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Compliance with codes of best practice the end of the financial year through Interim Management The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have Statements.
The interim and annual results announcements and implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure presentations, together with the Interim Management Statements, policies applicable to companies listed on the stock exchanges of other important announcements and corporate governance the UK, the US and the Netherlands.
The effect of this is that a documents concerning the Group, are published on the website, standard applying to one will, where not in conict, also be www.
In accordance with the provisions of the observed by the other.
Dutch Code, Reed Elsevier NV has adopted a bilateral shareholder contact policy, which is also published on the website.
The Boards The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV support of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV commission periodic the principles and provisions of corporate governance contained reports on the attitudes and views of the companies in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial  and the results are presented to the Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 the UK Code and respective Boards.
those contained in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2008 the Dutch Code.
The FRC published a revised Both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV offer electronic UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 the 2014 voting facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the 1 October 2014.
The Boards expect to comply in full with the 2014 Boards to communicate with individual shareholders.
Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, the chairmen of the Board Committees, other Directors and a This report and the Compliance statement set out below are made representative of the external auditors are available to answer in relation to the UK Code.
The principles and provisions set out in questions from shareholders.
the UK Code and the Dutch Code have applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Reed Elsevier PLC, Board induction and information whichhas its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, has Following appointment and as required, Directors receive training complied throughout the year with the UK Code.
Reed Elsevier NV, appropriate to their level of experience and knowledge.
This which has its primary listing on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock includes the provision of a comprehensive brieng pack and a Exchange, has also complied throughout the year with the UK tailored induction programme so as to provide newly-appointed Code, and subject to limited exceptions, as explained in the Reed Directors with information about the Groups businesses and Elsevier NV Report of the Board on pages 167 and 168, has applied other relevant information to assist them in performing their the best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have applied the main Groups businesses to meet management and senior staff.
principles of the UK Code are described below.
For further information on the application of the Dutch Code by Reed Elsevier Since joining the Group as Chief Financial officer, Nick Luff has NV, see the Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV undertaken an extensive induction programme, designed to ensure published on the website, www.
familiarisation with the Groups businesses, people, and governance and control processes.
This programme has included site visits to Business model the Groups operating businesses, internal briengs from senior As required by Provision C. 1.2 of the UK Code, pages 2 to 60 management and their teams, and external meetings with describe the business and the progress made in 2014 against the corporate advisers and major investors.
Mr Luffs familiarisation Groups long-term business priorities, aimed at delivering better programme will continue in the coming year with further site visits outcomes for our customers and creating value for the Group and meetings with senior management and advisers.
All Directors have full and timely access to the information required to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
Shareholder engagement They have access to the services of the respective company Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in regular secretaries, other members of the Groups management and dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Presentations on the staff, and external advisers.
Directors may take independent combined businesses are made by the Chairman, Chief Executive professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the officer and Chief Financial officer following the announcement relevant companys expense.
ofthe interim and full-year results and these are simultaneously webcast.
A conference call with investors was also held following In addition to scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings the third quarter Interim Management Statement.
The Chief held during the year, the Directors attend other meetings and site Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and the investor visits.
Where a Director is unable to attend a Board or Board relations team meet institutional shareholders on a regular Committee meeting he or she is provided with all relevant papers basisand the Chairman also makes himself available to major and information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss institutions as appropriate.
A trading update is provided ahead of issues arising with the respective chairman and other Board and the Annual General Meetings of the two companies and towards Committee members.
indd 68 06 03 2015 09:05 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 69 Board evaluation Boards was not present during a discussion by the Non-Executive In 2014, the Corporate Governance Committee appointed an Directors as it related to him.
external facilitator to carry out an independent effectiveness The review confirmed that overall, the Directors believe that the review of the Boards and their Committees.
The facilitator was Boards remain effective, are committed and engaged with a Lorna Parker, an independent practitioner with no other diverse mix of complementary and relevant skills and connection to the Group.
Ms Parkers review took the form of perspectives.
Themes demonstrating the effectiveness of the structured interviews with Directors and the company Boards included: alignment on strategy, objectives, risks and the secretaries, supported by individual questionnaires completed role of the Boards: well-structured meeting agendas with good byall participants.
Access to Board and Committee papers for allocation of Board time: efficient and thorough Board processes: theprior 12 months was provided to Ms Parker.
and well-chaired Committees with good linkages to the Boards.
All Directors commented on the Chairmans effective style, noting The review explored key areas, including: he continues to foster a supportive and cohesive yet disciplined Board performance and effectiveness of decision-making culture that encourages open dialogue.
Areas for Board focus in 2015 included further rening the Boards time allocation, Board composition and succession planning increasing its involvement in talent management, and continuing Talent management and executive leadership succession its engagement with individual business areas and their strategies through senior management dialogue.
Risk management, corporate governance and compliance Based on the findings of the external effectiveness review, the Agenda planning and quality of information provided Corporate Governance Committee believes that the Boards and bymanagement their Committees function effectively and collaboratively and with Committee effectiveness an appropriate level of engagement with management.
The Committee also believes that the performance of each Director The principal findings and recommendations from the review continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment were discussed with the Chairman and Senior Independent to their respective roles.
The review confirmed that good progress Director, following which they were presented to a meeting of is being made in response to the prior years recommendations to theBoards.
ensure that the Boards continue to monitor the level of detail The review of the performance of the Chairman of the Boards was provided to and balance of focus by the Boards between financial led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman of the data and strategic matters.
Percentage of the Areas of significant skills and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors on the Boards Non-Executive Directors Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 100 Operational experience in the Groups main geographical markets 100 Management of human resources, selection and remuneration of executives 100 Corporate responsibility 100 Corporate strategy and organisation 100 Marketing, customer relations 88 Legal matters 88 Financial and organisational audit 75 Executive board experience in a large international listed company 63 Operational experience with telecommunications information technology, electronic publishing 63 Operational experience in the Groups product markets 38 Banking, tax and corporate finance 38 94118 Reed AR p061-088.
indd 69 09 03 2015 17:19 GOVERNANCE 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the skills and experience of the Non-Executive Directors of Reed The Boards Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, is set out on page 69 and is The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and RELX available on the website, www.
All of the Directors of RELX Group plc Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders maintain are also Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
their rights to appoint individuals to the respective Boards in Reed Elsevier NV may nominate for appointment to the Board up to accordance with the provisions of the articles of association of two Non-Executive Directors who are not appointed to the Boards these companies.
Subject to this, no individual may be appointed of either Reed Elsevier PLC or RELX Group plc.
Currently, one tothe Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV or such Director, Marike van Lier Lels, has been appointed to the RELXGroup plc unless recommended by the joint Nominations Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
The names, nationalities and Committee.
Members of the Committee abstain when their own biographical details of each Director at the date of this report re-appointment is being considered.
As a general rule, letters of appointment in respect of The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and RELX Non-Executive Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group plc are unitary boards.
The implementation of a unitary NV provide that individuals will serve for an initial term of three board structure at Reed Elsevier NV was approved at its Annual years, and are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, General Meeting in April 2013, following the enactment of although the Boards may invite an individual to serve for an legislation to formalise the unitary board governance structure in additional period of three years.
The respective articles of association of Reed Elsevier PLC and There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Boards and Reed Elsevier NV provide that all Directors should be subject to approved delegated authorities to the Chief Executive officer retirement at least every three years and are then able to make andother senior executives.
There is a clear separation of the themselves available for re-election by shareholders at roles ofthe Chairman and the Chief Executive officer which are subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Notwithstanding the setout in writing.
provisions of the articles of association, it is the Boards policy to The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, RELX Group plc comply with the recommendations contained in the UK Code, and and, with respect to Elsevier Reed Finance BV, until the transfer all Directors will seek re-election by shareholders annually.
ofits ownership to RELX Group plc on 25 February 2015 each comprise a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who Board changes bring a wide range of skills and experience to the deliberations of Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards of the Boards.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier ReedElsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and RELX Group plc are NV review the independence of the Non-Executive Directors every setout in the table on page 71. year, based on the criteria for independence set out in the UK Code.
Having given notice of his resignation in 2013, Duncan Palmer The UK Code does not consider the Chairman to be independent stepped down as Chief Financial officer and as a Director during due to the unique role he has in corporate governance.
At the time of his resignation, the Nominations Notwithstanding this, Anthony Habgood met the independence Committee retained an external search consultancy to conduct a criteria contained in the UK Code when he was appointed rigorous search process in conjunction with the Boards to identify Chairman in 2009.
The Boards consider all Non-Executive a suitable candidate to succeed Mr Palmer.
Following the Directors other than the Chairman to be independent of conclusion of the search process and on the recommendation of management and free from any business or other relationship the Nominations Committee, the Boards selected Nick Luff and which could materially interfere with their ability to exercise recommended his election to shareholders.
Mr Luffs election independent judgement.
was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings in Notwithstanding that Lisa Hook will, at the time of the forthcoming April 2014 and he joined the Boards as Chief Financial officer on Annual General Meetings, have served on the Boards for nine 1September 2014.
His biography is set out on page 62. years, she will stand for re-election and, if re-elected, will serve In accordance with the UK Code, all Directors will retire from the for a further term of one year.
The Boards have determined that Boards of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC at the MsHook remains independent in character and judgement respective Annual General Meetings and, being eligible, will offer despite her length of service and there are no relationships or themselves for re-election.
Based on the review of performance circumstances which are likely to affect her independent and effectiveness made by the Corporate Governance Committee judgement.
The Boards believe that this will allow for an orderly of each individual seeking re-election, the Boards have accepted a transition of responsibilities.
recommendation from the Nominations Committee that each The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have Director be proposed for re-election at the 2015 Annual General appointed Lisa Hook to act as Senior Independent Director, who is Meeting of the respective company.
available to meet with institutional shareholders and assist in In accordance with the articles of association of Reed Elsevier resolving concerns in cases where alternative channels are PLC, Directors are normally subject to election by shareholders at deemed inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director also leads the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the annual assessment of the performance of the Chairman of the Board.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
A prole, which identies 94118 Reed AR p061-088.
indd 70 06 03 2015 09:05 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 71 Board Attendance Audit Committees The following tables show the attendance of Directors at Board The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and meetings for the year.
Attendance is expressed as the number of RELXGroup plc have established Audit Committees.
The meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Committees comprise only independent Non-Executive Directorsand are chaired by Ben van der Veer.
A report of the Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier RELX Group AuditCommittees, setting out their role and main activities PLC NV plc duringthe year, appears on pages 89 and 90.
Anthony Habgood Chairman 6 6 6 6 7 7 Erik Engstrom 6 6 6 6 7 7 Ben van der Veer Committee Chairman 5 5 1 Nick Luff 2 2 2 2 3 3 Adrian Hennah 5 5 Wolfhart Hauser 6 6 6 6 7 7 Linda Sanford 5 5 Adrian Hennah 5 6 5 6 6 7 Lisa Hook 6 6 6 6 7 7 The functions of an audit committee in respect of the nancing 2 Marike van Lier Lels 6 6 6 6 7 7 activities were carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier 3 Duncan Palmer 4 4 4 4 4 4 Reed Finance BV.
Robert Polet 4 6 4 6 5 7 Linda Sanford 6 6 6 6 6 7 Remuneration Committee Ben van der Veer 6 6 6 6 7 7 The Board of RELX Group plc has established a Remuneration 1 Appointed to the Boards on 1 September 2014 2 A s a Reed Elsevier NV Director, Ms van Lier Lels attended the Board meetings of Committee, which is responsible for considering the remuneration Reed Elsevier PLC and RELX Group plc: however, she is not a Director of those of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee companies, is not counted in the quorum and does not vote on matters relating to comprises only Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by those companies 3 Resigned from the Boards on 24 September 2014 Wolfhart Hauser.
A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Boards of RELX Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 75 to 88.
This report Throughout 2014, Elsevier Reed Finance BV had a two-tier board serves as disclosure of the Annual Remuneration Report which structure comprising a Supervisory Board and a Management contains the remuneration of the Directors and their interests in Board.
TheSupervisory Board was chaired by Marike van Lier Lels the shares of the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and who succeeded Rudolf van den Brink as Chairman in July 2014 Reed Elsevier NV.
and, inaddition, consisted of NickLuff and Ben van der Veer.
TheManagement Board consisted of Gerben fide Jong, Wolfhart Hauser Committee Chairman 3 3 AlbertoRomaneschi and Jans van der Woude.
Anthony Habgood 3 3 Lisa Hook 3 3 Elsevier Reed Finance BV Robert Polet 2 3 1 Rudolf van den Brink 2 2 Gerben fide Jong 3 3 Marike van Lier Lels 3 3 Nominations Committee 2 Nick Luff 1 1 3 Duncan Palmer 2 2 The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have Alberto Romaneschi 3 3 established a joint Nominations Committee.
The Committee 3 3 Ben van der Veer comprises only Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired by Jans van der Woude 3 3 Anthony Habgood.
A report of the Nominations Committee, setting out its role and main activities during the year, appears on page 74.
1 R esigned from the Supervisory Board on 21 July 2014 2 Appointed to the Supervisory Board on 1 September 2014 Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman 4 4 3 Resigned from the Supervisory Board on 24 September 2014 Lisa Hook 4 4 Ben van der Veer 4 4 Board Committees In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, the following Committees have been established by the respective Boards.
All of the Committees have written terms of reference, which are published on the website, www.
Membership of each Committee and attendance during the year are set out below.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
indd 71 06 03 2015 09:05 GOVERNANCE 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Committee Operating companies The Board of RELX Group plc is responsible for the system of The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have internal control of the the Group and reviewing the effectiveness established a joint Corporate Governance Committee, which is ofsuch systems.
While the Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV responsible for reviewing ongoing developments and best were responsible for the system of internal control in respect practice in corporate governance.
The Committee is also ofthe finance group activities during 2014 and reviewing the responsible for assessing the performance of the Directors and effectiveness of such systems, the responsibility transferred recommending the structure and operation of the various toRELX Group plc with effect from 25 February 2015.
Committees of the Boards and the qualications and criteria for The Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV membership of each committee.
The Committee comprises only each implemented an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Anthony Habgood.
monitoring and managing the principal risks faced by their respective businesses.
These processes were in place throughout Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman 5 5 the year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date of the Wolfhart Hauser 5 5 approvals of the Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014.
Adrian Hennah 5 5 Lisa Hook 5 5 RELX Group plc Marike van Lier Lels 5 5 RELX Group plc has an established framework of procedures and Robert Polet 5 5 internal controls, with which the management of each business is Linda Sanford 4 5 required to comply.
Group businesses are required to maintain Ben van der Veer 5 5 systems of internal control which are appropriate to the nature and scale of their activities and address all significant strategic, operational, financial and legal compliance risks that they face.
Internal control The Board of RELX Group plc has adopted a schedule of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
Parent companies The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have each RELX Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that adopted a schedule of matters which are required tobe brought to provides a guide for achieving its business goals and requires them for decision.
During 2014 the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC ofcers and employees to behave in an open, honest, ethical and and Reed Elsevier NV exercised independent supervisory roles principled manner.
The Code also outlines condential over the activities and systems of internal control of Reed Elsevier procedures enabling employees to report any concerns about Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
In relation to Reed compliance, or about the Groups financial reporting practice.
Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Boards of TheCode is published on the website, www.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV approved the strategy and Each business area has identied and evaluated its principal risks, the annual budgets, and received regular reports on the the controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of operations, including the treasury and risk management activities residual risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures of the two companies.
Major transactions proposed by the Boards are embedded into the operations of the business and include the of Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV required monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to the approval of the Boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed management and board attention.
The principal risks facing the Elsevier NV.
Group are set out on pages 58 to 60.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees The principal risks facing the RELX Group plc businesses are met on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control regularly reported to and assessed by the Board and Audit and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Committee.
With the close involvement of business management Reed Finance BV.
and central functions, the risk management and control Effective 25 February, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV procedures ensure that the Group is managing its business risks transferred their direct ownership interests in Elsevier Reed effectively and in a co-ordinated manner across the business with Finance BV to their jointly-owned company, Reed Elsevier Group clarity on the respective responsibilities and interdependencies.
plc and named this newly combined single group entity RELX Litigation and other legal regulatory matters are managed by Group plc.
As a result, RELX Group plc now holds all businesses, legal directors in Europe and the US.
subsidiaries and nancing activities including Elsevier Reed The RELX Group plc Audit Committee receives regular reports on Finance BV.
the identication and management of material risks and reviews In the future, Elsevier Reed Finance BV and its subsidiaries will be these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports subject to the framework of procedures and controls established from both internal and external auditors on internal control and by RELX Group plc and the Audit Committee of RELX Group plc risk management matters.
In addition, each business area is willreview, on a regular basis, the system of internal control and required, at the end of the financial year, to review the risk management of Elsevier Reed Finance BV and its effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and subsidiaries.
report its findings on a detailed basis to the management of RELX Group plc.
These reports are summarised and, as part of the annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit Committee of RELX Group plc.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any significant internal control matters arising.
indd 72 06 03 2015 09:05 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 73 Elsevier Reed Finance BV existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is During 2014, Elsevier Reed Finance BV had established policy appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2014 guidelines, whichwere applied to all Elsevier Reed Finance BV financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors of companies.
Therespective Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have had due regard to adopted schedules of matters required to be brought to them for the combined businesses financial position as at 31 December decision.
Procedures are in place for monitoring the activities of 2014, the strong free cash ow of the combined businesses, the the finance group, including a comprehensive treasury reporting Groups ability to access capital markets and the principal risks system.
The principal risks affecting the finance group have been facing the Group.
identied and evaluated and are subject to regular review.
The A commentary on the combined businesses cash ows, financial controls in place to manage these risks and the level of residual position and liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2014 is set out risk accepted were monitored by the Boards.
In future, these will in the Chief Financial Ofcers report on pages 50 to 57.
This shows be monitored by the Audit Committee of RELX Group plc.
that after taking account of available cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short-term borrowings, all of the Annual review Groups borrowings that mature within the next two years can be As part of the year-end procedures, the Audit Committees and covered.
The Groups policies on liquidity, capital management and Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, RELX Group plc management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange and and Elsevier Reed Finance BV reviewed the effectiveness of the credit exposures are set out on pages 120 to 123.
Theprincipal systems of internal control and risk management during the last risks facing the Group are set out on pages 58 to 60. financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, US certicates assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards have confirmed, subject to the above, that as regards financial As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 reporting risks, the respective risk management and control andby related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange systems provide reasonable assurance against material Commission, the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial inaccuracies or loss and have functioned properly during the year.
officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV certify in therespective Annual Reports 2014 on Form 20-F to be led with the Commission that they are responsible for establishing and Responsibilities in respect of the maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that they have: financial statements designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the Group is made known The Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, RELX to them Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required to prepare financial statements as at the end of each financial period, in evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls accordance with applicable law and regulations, which give a true and procedures and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the profit or loss, of the based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees respective companies and their subsidiaries, joint ventures and and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the associates.
They are responsible for maintaining proper accounting design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and records, for safeguarding assets, and for taking reasonable steps any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors or other employees who have a significant role in the Groups are also responsible for selecting suitable accounting policies and internal controls: and applying them on a consistent basis, making judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the controls and procedures ReedElsevier combined financial statements, which are the responsibility of the Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of Elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies which comply Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other senior with International Financial Reporting Standards.
managers of the Group, provides assurance to the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer regarding their Section 302 Having taken into account all the matters considered by the certications.
Boards and brought to the attention of the Boards, the Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Executive officer and Chief Financial officer of Reed Elsevier PLC information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys and of Reed Elsevier NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports performance, business model and strategy.
2014 on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
Going concern The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualied, are The Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, having presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F. made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in operational 94118 Reed AR p061-088.
