Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairmans Introduction Corporate Governance Although the Company is not obliged to and risk management system.
The The Financial Reporting adhere to the Revised Code, the Board Board has delegated authority to the Council updated the UK prides itself on its commitment to high Remuneration Committee to set the standards of corporate governance and remuneration policy for Directors and Corporate Governance Code the Company has therefore applied the senior management.
the Revised Code and it principles of the Revised Code as far as The Nomination Committee recommends is effective for accounting it is applicable.
The Revised Code is the appointment of Board Directors and available at www.
and this periods beginning on or has responsibility for succession planning report describes how the Board has at Board level.
The various Board after 1 October 2014. applied its principles.
Committees the Committees have authority to make decisions in their The Board areas of expertise.
During the year to 31 December 2014, the Board of Directors was made up of eight Frequency of meetings members comprising the Chairman, two There were eight main Board meetings Executive Directors and five Non-Executive during 2014.
All serving Directors attended Directors.
Biographical details of the each meeting.
Directors are set out on pages 26 and 27.
The number of meetings of the Committees The Board is mindful of the benefits of and individual attendance by the Directors strength and diversity on the Board.
are shown on the following page Nina Our aim is to have a Board which is Henderson having joined the Board and its reflective of the broad range of skills, Committees on 20 May 2014. backgrounds and experience necessary to Matters reserved for the Board properly serve our shareholders.
We have The Board has a formal schedule of pursued this objective by engaging Board matters reserved for its decision, to ensure members who have had broad executive that no one individual has unfettered responsibilities and bring very different powers of decision.
These include: and complementary personal experiences and approaches to matters including approval of regulatory announcements the evaluation of opportunities and including the interim and annual management of risks.
Our Board members financial statements: represent five different nationalities and terms of reference and membership of seven countries of residence.
Along with the Board and its Committees: their international operational experience, they also bring a depth of working changes to the Groups capital structure: knowledge covering multiple industries, changes to the Groups management business models, corporate cultures, and control structure: organisational models, functional areas and business issues.
During the year we capital expenditure in excess of 5m: were pleased to add Nina Henderson to and the Board as a Non-Executive Director, material contracts annual value in contributing to the skillset and diversity excess of 5m.
Minutes are taken of all Board discussions The Nomination Committees decisions are and decisions and all Directors are based on merit while reflecting our intent encouraged to request inclusion in the to continue to increase diversity over time.
Board minutes of any unresolved concerns The Board considers that its current that they may have.
balance ensures that no individual or group Board Committees dominates its decision making process.
The Board has delegated certain of its Role of the Board governance responsibilities to the Audit, The primary role of the Board is to Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
provide leadership and to review the The Company Secretary acts as secretary overall strategic development of the to all of the Board Committees and Group.
The Board approves the corporate minutes of meetings are circulated to plan and the annual budget and reviews all Board members.
performance through monthly reports and at every meeting.
Capable management The terms of reference of the Committees and relevant technical expertise in the have been documented and approved business are critical to the implementation by the Board and are available on the of the strategy.
A brief summary of the members, activities Individuals with strategic responsibilities and terms of reference of the Committees are invited to present to and discuss with is provided on the following page.
the Board on a periodic basis.
Through the Audit Committee, the Directors ensure the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of financial controls and the internal control www.
com 29 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Frequency of Frequency of Frequency of Members meetings Members meetings Members meetings Lance Browne, Chairman 4 4 Elmar Heggen, Chairman 6 6 Nina Henderson, Chairman 4 6 Elmar Heggen 4 4 Lance Browne 6 6 Lance Browne 6 6 Nina Henderson 3 4 Nina Henderson 4 6 Elmar Heggen 6 6 Florence Pierre 4 4 Florence Pierre 6 6 Florence Pierre 6 6 Alex Sulkowski 4 4 Alex Sulkowski 6 6 Alex Sulkowski 6 6 Douglas Sutherland 4 4 Nina Henderson joined the Board on 20 May 2014 Nina Henderson joined the Board on 20 May 2014 Nina Henderson joined the Board on 20 May 2014 Details of the Audit Committee and its Details of the Remuneration Committee activities during the year are set out in and its activities during the year are set Details of the Nomination Committee the Audit Committee report on pages out in the Remuneration Report on and its activities during the year are set 35 to 37. pages 38 to 45. out in the Nomination Committee report on page 34. jurisdictions or between the applicable All shareholders are paid dividends Group structure laws and the Listing Rules.
If an directly from Regus plc SA plc.
All As a Jersey-incorporated company having irreconcilable conflict were to occur then dividend payments are made without its place of central administration head the Company may not be able to maintain deduction of Luxembourg withholding tax, office in Luxembourg and being tax its status as a company tax resident regardless of the residence of the resident in Luxembourg, the Company is in Luxembourg.
required to comply with both Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where applicable.
In The Group manages the risk that a In general terms, UK resident shareholders addition, the Companys ordinary shares significant tax liability could arise by taking receiving dividends from plc should be are listed on the Official List of the UK appropriate advice, both in carrying out taxed in the same way as if they had Listing Authority and admitted to trading Group reorganisations and on an ongoing received a dividend from a UK company.
on the main market of the London basis.
In addition, the Group believes that Tax outcomes do, however, depend on the StockExchange.
under current laws and regulations the risk specific circumstances of shareholders of irreconcilable conflicts between current It is possible that conflicts may arise and any shareholder in doubt about their laws and regulations impacting Regus plc between the obligations of the Company tax position including, in particular, UK is alsolow.
under the laws of each of these resident but non-UK-domiciled individuals Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Non-Executive Directors Tim Regan Roles of board members Chairman Chief Executive The Non-Executive Directors each bring Company Secretary In line with good corporate governance their own senior level of experience and Douglas Sutherland is responsible for Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, principles, there is a clear division of objectivity to the Board.
The independent leadership of the Board, setting its agenda strategy and for its delivery once agreed is responsible for advising the Board, responsibilities between the Chairman counsel brought to the Group by the and monitoring its effectiveness.
He creates a framework through the Chairman, on all governance and the Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Directors enhances the of strategy, values, organisation and matters and for ensuring that appropriate He ensures effective communication with overall decision making of the Board.
objectives to ensure the successful delivery minutes are taken of all Board meetings shareholders and that the Board is aware of key targets, and allocates decision and discussions.
The appointment and Non-Executive Directors are appointed of the views of major shareholders.
He making and responsibilities accordingly.
removal of the Company Secretary is a for an initial three-year term and are facilitates both the contribution of the matter reserved for the Board.
subject to election by shareholders at Non-Executive Directors and constructive each Annual General Meeting AGM relations between the Executive Directors after their appointment.
30 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance continued who have elected to be taxed on a The annual budget process is driven Information and communications remittance basis should consult their from senior management meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a detailed The senior management team is integrally level by business centre and roll-up involved in the business and to this extent Centrally managed applications at country and regional level.
The regularly discuss and address issues and and systems Executive Directors review regional opportunities with regional and functional All of the Groups systems and budgets to ensure consistency with teams.
Formal business review meetings applications are housed in a central regional strategic objectives and the are held with the regional teams and data centre.
Should the data centre be final budget is reviewed and approved functional heads on a monthly basis.
impacted as a result of circumstances by the Board.
The approved budget outside the Groups control there could Regular staff communications include forms the basis of business be an adverse impact on the Groups general information on the business management throughout the year.
operations and therefore its financial from senior management as well as Operational reports and financial results.
This risk is managed through a operational guidance on changes in reports are prepared and distributed to detailed service arrangement with our policies and procedures.
the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual external data centre provider which Sales staff and operational management results are reviewed against budget and incorporates appropriate back-up periodically attend regional sales or forecast, and explanations are received procedures and controls.
management conferences at which for all material movements.
information on operational issues is Strategy Key policies and control procedures shared.
Delegates present the key The Board conducts regular reviews of the including finance, operations, and messages to employees who did not Groups strategic direction.
Country and health and safety are documented in attend the event.
regional strategic objectives, plans and manuals having Group-wide application.
performance targets for 2014 have been These are available to all staff via the Monitoring effectiveness set by the Executive Directors and are Groups intranet system.
The following key mechanisms were regularly reviewed by the Board in the available to the Board at various times context of the Groups overall objectives.
The Board has formal procedures in during the year in the conduct of its review place for the review and approval of of internal controls: Control processes investment and acquisition projects.
The Company has had procedures in place The Group Investment Committee review of the Groups monthly throughout the year and up to 3 March comprising the Executive Directors management accounts which contain 2015, the date of approval of this Annual reviews all investments prior to detailed analysis of financial performance Report, which accord with the Revised approval by the Board where required.
for the Group and each of the Groups Internal Control Guidance for Directors in Additionally the form and content of geographic reporting segments: the Code.
These include the following: routine investment proposals are an ongoing process of review, through standardised to facilitate the review There are comprehensive reviews Board meetings, senior management process.
The Group has clearly every six months of Group and regional meetings and divisional reviews as well delegated authority limits with regard financial performance, business as other management meetings, for the to the approval of transactions.
development opportunities, Group formal identification of significant infrastructure and general Group Numerous reports are generated operational risks and mitigating management issues.
The results of these control processes: from the Groups sales and operating reviews are presented to the Board.
systems on a daily, weekly and monthly delivery of a  basis to provide management at all Formal country level business reviews assurance programme by the Business levels with performance data for their are performed monthly by regional and Assurance department that includes key area of responsibility which helps them Group management covering business risk areas: to focus on operational issues that may performance and management issues require their input.
reporting the findings and with country management.
Significant recommendations of each review to matters arising from these reviews are management and the Audit Committee presented to the Board.
Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Non-Executive Directors Tim Regan Roles of board members Chairman Chief Executive The Non-Executive Directors each bring Company Secretary In line with good corporate governance their own senior level of experience and Douglas Sutherland is responsible for Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, principles, there is a clear division of objectivity to the Board.
com 31 Corporate Governance continued to support the Board in its role of management in addition to the Executive The Group manages the ensuring a sound control environment: Directors which, together with site visits, risk that a significant tax increase the Non-Executive Directors monthly reporting on the development understanding of the business and sector.
liability could arise by taking of the profitability of new centres to appropriate advice, both allow appraisal of the effectiveness All Directors have access to the advice of investment activity: and and services of the Company Secretary, in carrying out the Group who is responsible for ensuring that Board annual internal control self-assessment reorganisation and on an procedures, corporate governance and and management certification exercise regulatory compliance are followed and ongoing basis.
covering the effectiveness of financial complied with.
Should a Director request and operational controls.
This is based independent professional advice to carry on a comprehensive internal control out his duties, such advice is available questionnaire collated and reviewed to him at the Companys expense.
Results and any necessary mitigating action plans are Directors and officers insurance presented to senior management and The Groups insurance programme is the Board.
reviewed annually and appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the Succession Directors and senior management in the Our efforts to increase our management event of a claim being brought against any capacity and capabilities through of them in their capacity as Directors and continuing development of our people, officers of the Company.
supplemented by the hiring of experienced professionals, not only supports our Dialogue with shareholders ability to execute our growth strategy but The Company reports formally to also enables us to address succession in shareholders twice a year, with the a more robust way throughout the Group.
half year results typically announced in Succession planning discussions are an August and the preliminary final results integral part of our business planning and announced normally in March.
are programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to give In view of the future development of the presentations of these results to the Group and our objective to continue to Companys institutional investors, enhance diversity and succession planning analysts and media in London and for Board roles, the Nomination Committee other key locations.
maintains an ongoing programme of engagement with highly qualified potential The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Non-Executive Directors of varied Officer maintain a close dialogue with backgrounds and gender.
institutional investors on the Companys performance, governance, plans and Training and resources objectives.
These meetings also serve to Appropriate training is made available develop an ongoing understanding of the for all new Directors to assist them in the views and any concerns of the Companys discharge of their responsibilities.
is provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with the emphasis on The Non-Executive Directors are given governance and accounting developments.
regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders, and the During the year the Company Secretary, Chairman is available and meets with Tim Regan, provided updates to the Board these shareholders on request.
on relevant governance matters, whilst the Audit Committee regularly considers new The principal communication with accounting developments through private shareholders is through the presentations from management, internal Annual Report, the half year results audit and the external auditors.
programme includes presentations from Control environment High standards of behaviour are A clearly defined An induction process Provision to all team demanded from staff at all levels organisation structure to educate new team members of a copy of in the Group.
The following procedures with established members on the the Team Member are in place to support this: responsibilities.
standards required Handbook which from them in their role, contains detailed including business guidance on employee ethics and compliance, policies and the regulations and standards of behaviour internal policies.
32 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance continued The Company continues to engage the The last external evaluation was services of Brunswick as its investor Board performance performed in 2012, and the next external relations adviser.
evaluation evaluation will be performed during 2015.
AGM An annual internal evaluation of Board The AGM each year is held in May in performance was conducted for 2014.
Luxembourg and is attended, other than in The results of the 2014 evaluation were exceptional circumstances, by all members reviewed and are being addressed in our of the Board.
In addition to the formal efforts to continuously improve the business of the meeting, there is normally processes and effectiveness of the Board.
a trading update and shareholders are There were no reportable matters invited to ask questions and are also given identified from the evaluations and we the opportunity to meet the Directors continue to have full confidence in the informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM together with any related documents is required to be mailed to shareholders at least 30 clear days Provision E. 1.1 The Senior all transactions and relationships before the meeting and separate Independent Non-Executive Director with any member of the Group will be resolutions are proposed on each issue.
Lance Browne does not have regular conducted on arms length terms and The voting in respect of all resolutions to meetings with major external on a normal commercial basis: be put to the AGM is conducted by means shareholders.
no action will be taken that would have of a poll vote.
The Board considers it appropriate for the effect of preventing the Company The level of proxy votes cast and the the Chairman to be the main conduit from complying with its obligations balance for and against each resolution, with investors, rather than the Senior under the Listing Rules: and together with the level of abstentions, if Independent Non-Executive Director.
no resolution will be proposed, or any, are announced to the meeting The Chairman participates in investor procured to be proposed, which is following voting on a poll.
meetings and makes himself available for intended to, or appears to be intended questions, in person, at the time of major Financial and other information is made to circumvent the proper application announcements as well as upon request.
available on the Companys website: of the Listing Rules.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board The Company confirms that it has and particularly the Senior Independent Re-election of the Board complied with its obligations under the Non-Executive Director on the results As required by the Code, all Directors Relationship Agreement during the of his meetings and the opinions of submit themselves for re-election by financial period under review, and that so investors.
On this basis, the Board shareholders annually and Directors far as it is aware all other parties to that considers that the Senior Independent appointed during the period since the last agreement have complied with it.
Non-Executive Director is able to gain full AGM are required to seek election at the awareness of the issues and concerns The Company confirms that there are no next AGM under the Companys articles of major shareholders.
Notwithstanding contracts of significance between Mark of association.
this policy, all Directors have a standing Dixon and any member of the Group, with Non-Executive Directors are also subject to invitation to participate in meetings the exception of Mark Dixons service the re-election requirements and serve the with investors.
agreement as a Director of the Company, Company under letters of appointment, the terms of which are outlined in the Agreement with Controlling which have an initial three-year term.
Shareholder Compliance statement On 23 September 2014, Mark Dixon The Company has complied with the entered into a Relationship Agreement provisions set out in section E of the Code with the Company so as to comply with throughout the year ended 31 December Listing Rule LR 9.2.
2A 2 a, which came 2014, with the exception of the following: into effect on 16 May 2014.
The following undertakings were given by Mark Dixon: Control environment High standards of behaviour are Policies and procedure Operational audit To underpin the demanded from staff at all levels manuals and and self-certification effectiveness of controls, in the Group.
The following procedures guidelines that are tools which require it is the Groups policy are in place to support this: readily accessible individual centre to recruit and develop through the Groups managers to confirm appropriately skilled intranet site.
their adherence management and staff to Group policies of high calibre and and procedures.
integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
com 33 Nomination Committee report Audit Committee report During 2014, the Committee continued to review Board composition, seeking Board candidates whose backgrounds and proven skills would strengthen the Board and further support and develop the long term sustainable success of the Company.
Lance Browne Chairman, Nomination Committee Board effectiveness, performance, evaluation to assess the performance Members leadership and succession planning and effectiveness of the overall Board Lance Browne, Chairman were covered by our internal Board review and individual Directors.
Elmar Heggen process as well as being discussed by Leadership to remain fully informed Nina Henderson the Board as a group.
about strategic issues and commercial Florence Pierre Summary terms of reference: matters affecting the Company and to Alex Sulkowski keep under review the leadership needs Board appointment and composition Douglas Sutherland of the organisation to enable it to to regularly review the structure, size compete effectively.
and composition of the Board and make Length of tenure of Non-Executive recommendations on the role and Lance Browne Directors within the Committee nomination of Directors for appointment Chairman, Nomination Committee and re-appointment to the Board for the 6-9 years purpose of ensuring a balanced and 3-6 years diverse Board in respect of skills, 0-3 years 2 2 knowledge and experience.
Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The 2 appointment and removal of Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
Dear Shareholder Board effectiveness to assess the role of the Chairman and Chief Executive and I am pleased to present to you my report make appropriate recommendations to on the Nomination Committee.
In line with our aim to have a Board which Board performance to assist the is reflective of the broad range of skills, Chairman with the annual performance backgrounds and experiences necessary to properly serve our shareholders, during the year the Nomination Committee searched for a new non-executive director.
Our Board composition Our search resulted in the selection, recommendation and appointment of As at the date of this report, the Board All Directors served throughout the year Nina Henderson as a Non-Executive to comprises eight members: the chairman under review, except as noted below: the Board.
Douglas Sutherland, five Non-Executive Nina Henderson appointed as Directors and two Executive Directors.
The existing Non-Executive Directors offer Non-Executive Director on 20 May 2014. themselves for re-election each year, as The Board considers all the Non-Executive Regus aim to appoint a Board with varied further detailed on page 33.
Biographical Directors to be independent.
backgrounds and gender to reflect the details of all serving Directors can be The names of the Directors serving as at society in which we operate.
31 December 2014 and their biographical details are set out on pages 26 and 27.
34 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
