Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report Audit Committee report I am pleased to introduce the 2014 Audit Committee Report which explains the Committees role in monitoring all aspects of financial reporting, internal controls and risk management, and provides an overview of the work undertaken by the Committee over the past year.
Elmar Heggen Chairman, Audit Committee The Audit Committee has, via delegated Director to informally discuss matters Members authority from the Board, the of interest.
Elmar Heggen, Chairman responsibility for applying an effective Summary terms of reference of the Lance Browne system of internal control and compliance: Committee, the full text of which is freely Nina Henderson accurate external financial reporting, available on the Companys website, are: Florence Pierre fulfilling its obligations under law, the revised UK Corporate Governance Code Financial reporting to provide Alex Sulkowski the Code : and the Financial Reporting support to the Board by monitoring Councils report on Internal Control: the integrity of financial reporting and Length of tenure of Non-Executive Revised Guidance for Directors on the ensuring that the published financial Directors within the Committee Combined Code the FRC Revised statements of the Group and any 6-9 years Guidance as well as managing the formal announcements relating to 3-6 years relationship with the Companys external the Companys financial performance 1 0-3 years auditors.
The Committee therefore acts comply fully with the relevant statutes on behalf of the Board, meaning that the and accounting standards.
2 matters reviewed and managed by the Internal control and risk systems Committee remain the responsibility of to review the effectiveness of the the Board as a whole.
Groups internal controls and risk The Committee is comprised entirely management systems.
2 of Non-Executive Directors as detailed Internal audit to monitor and review on page 30 of the Corporate the annual internal audit programme Governance report.
ensuring that the internal audit function Dear Shareholder All of the members are considered by the is adequately resourced and free from Board to be independent in character and management restrictions, and to review I am pleased to present to you this years judgement and are competent in and monitor responses to the findings Audit Committee report.
The report sets accounting and or auditing.
Furthermore, and recommendations of the out the significant matters that the and in compliance with the Code, the internal auditors.
Committee has considered and addressed Board regards Elmar Heggen as the during the year under review, whilst External audit to advise the Board Committee member possessing recent also detailing the Committees role in on the appointment, reappointment, and relevant financial experience.
monitoring all aspects of financial remuneration and removal of the reporting, internal controls and risk The Audit Committee met six times during external auditors.
For the year under review, the year to 31 December 2014.
Employee concerns to review the there were no reportable issues to bring Attendance at those meetings is shown on Companys arrangements under which to your attention.
page 30 of the Corporate Governance employees may in confidence raise report.
At the request of the Committee any concerns regarding possible Chairman, the external auditors, the wrongdoing in financial reporting or Executive Directors, the Company other matters.
The Audit Committee Secretary acting as secretary to the ensures that these arrangements Committee and the Business Assurance allow proportionate and independent Director may attend each meeting.
investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
The Audit Committee also routinely meets independently, without the presence of management, with the Companys external auditors and with the Business Assurance www.
com 35 Audit Committee report continued The Chairman of the Audit Committee annually whereby all Company inherent Internal control routinely reports to the Main Board on risks are identified and assessed, and The Committee has a delegated how the Committee has discharged its appropriate action plans developed to responsibility from the Board for the responsibilities, as well as highlighting manage the risk per the Companys risk Companys system of internal control any concerns that have been raised as appetite.
The Board reviews the Groups and risk management and for reviewing and when they arise.
principal risks register annually and the effectiveness of this system.
Such a management periodically reports on the system is designed to identify, evaluate Activities of the Audit Committee progress against agreed actions to keep and control the significant risks associated during the year a close watch on how we are managing with the Groups achievement of its The Committee has a number of standing our key risks.
business objectives with a view to agenda items which it considers at each of safeguarding shareholders investments The annual strategic planning process, its meetings, as well as any other specific and the Groups assets.
Due to the which is designed to ensure consistency matters which arise during the year.
limitations that are inherent in any system with the Companys strategic objectives.
During the year, amongst other items, of internal control, this system is designed The final budget is reviewed and the Committee reviewed and discussed: to meet the Companys particular needs approved by the Board.
Performance and the risks to which it is exposed, and the control observations from the is reviewed against objectives at each is designed to manage rather than previous years Group audit cycle: Board meeting.
internal controls and risk management Comprehensive monthly business Accordingly, such a system can provide as further particularised within review processes under which business reasonable, but not absolute, assurance this report : performance is reviewed on business against material misstatement or loss.
centre, area, country, regional and the Group tax report: functional levels.
Actual results are In accordance with the FRC Revised the interim and final dividends: reviewed against targets, explanations Guidance, the Committee confirms that are received for all material movements, there is an ongoing process for the integrity of the half year results and and recovery plans are agreed identifying, evaluating and managing annual financial statements, alongside where appropriate.
the significant risks faced by the Group.
the formal announcements relating to them: and The documentation of key policies and During the year under review, the control procedures including finance, Committee continued to revisit its risk the Group audit strategy for the year.
operations, and health and safety identification and assessment processes, Risk management having Group-wide application.
These inviting Board members and senior On behalf of the Board, the Audit are available to all staff via the Groups management to convene and discuss the Committee oversees and reviews an intranet system.
Groups key risks and mitigating controls.
ongoing process for identifying, Formal procedures for the review A risk-based approach has been adopted evaluating and managing the risks faced and approval of all investment and in establishing the Groups system of by the Group.
Major business risks and acquisition projects.
The Group internal control and in reviewing its their financial implications are appraised Investment Committee comprising the effectiveness.
To identify and manage by the responsible executives as a part of Chief Executive Officer and the Chief key risks: the planning process and are endorsed Financial Officer reviews and approves by regional management.
Key risks are a number of Group-wide procedures, all investments.
Additionally, the form reported to the Audit Committee, which in policies and standards have and content of routine investment turn ensures that the Board is made aware been established: proposals are standardised to facilitate of them.
The appropriateness of controls the review process.
a framework for reporting and is considered by the executives, having escalating matters of significance regard to cost, benefit, materiality and the The delegation of authority limits with has been set up: likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks regard to the approval of transactions.
and actions to mitigate those risks are reviews of the effectiveness of The generation of targeted, actionregularly considered by both the Audit management actions in addressing key oriented reports from the Groups sales Committee and the Board, and are Group risks identified by the Board have and operating systems on a daily, formally reviewed and approved by been undertaken: and weekly and monthly basis which the Board annually.
provide management at all levels with a system of regular reports from performance data for their area of Principal risks management setting out key responsibility, and which helps them There are a number of risks and performance and risk indicators has to focus on key issues and manage uncertainties which could have an impact been developed.
on the Groups long-term performance.
The above process is designed to The Group has a risk management The delivery of a centrally co-ordinated provide assurance by way of cumulative structure in place designed to identify, assurance programme by the Internal assessment and is embedded in manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk Audit department that includes key operational management and assessment and evaluation is an integral business risk areas.
The findings and governance processes.
part of the annual planning process, as recommendations of each review are well as the Groups monthly review cycle.
Key elements of the Groups system of reported to both management and internal control which have operated the Committee.
The Groups principal risks, together with throughout the year under review are an explanation of how the Group manages Annual internal control self-assessment as follows: these risks, are presented on pages 20 to and management certification exercise 23 of this Annual Report.
The risk assessments of all significant covering the effectiveness of financial business decisions at the individual and operational controls.
This is based transaction level, and as part of the on a comprehensive internal control annual business planning process.
A questionnaire collated and reviewed by Group-wide risk register is developed 36 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report continued Internal Audit.
Results and any acquisitions, mergers and dispositions Whistle-blowing policy necessary mitigating action plans are work that includes investment banking The Company has an externally hosted presented to senior management and services, preparation of forecasts or whistle-blowing channel EthicsPoint, the Board.
investment proposals and deal which is available to all employees via execution services.
email, and on the Companys Intranet.
The maintenance of high standards of The aim of the policy is to encourage all behaviour which is demanded from staff The scope and extent of non-audit employees, regardless of seniority, to at all levels in the Group.
The following related services undertaken by the bring matters that cause them concern procedures are in place to support this: external auditors is monitored by and, to the attention of the Audit Committee.
above a threshold of 50,000, requires a clearly defined organisation prior approval from the Committee to The Business Assurance Director, where structure with established ensure that the provision of such services appropriate and in consultation with the responsibilities: does not impair their independence executive management team, decides an induction process to educate or objectivity.
on the appropriate method and level of new team members on the standards investigation.
The Audit Committee is The breakdown of the fees paid to the required from them in their role, notified of all material discourses made external auditors during the year to including business ethics and and receives reports on the results of 31 December 2014 can be found in note 5 compliance, regulation and investigations and actions taken on a of the Notes to the Accounts.
The Audit Committee has For the year ending 31 December 2015, the the power to request further information, the availability of the Team Member Audit Committee has recommended to the conduct its own inquiries or order Handbook, via the Groups intranet, Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG additional action as it sees fit.
which contains the Companys Code Luxembourg, Socit cooprative as the of Business Conduct, detailed External auditors Companys auditors be proposed at the guidance on employee policies and KPMG Luxembourg, Socit cooprative Annual General Meeting.
the standards of behaviour required were the Companys auditors for the year of staff: The Audit Committee notes the ongoing ended 31 December 2014.
The Audit dialogue regarding the advantages and Committee is responsible for oversight policies, procedure manuals and disadvantages related to the periodic of the external auditors, including an guidelines are readily accessible rotation of external auditors.
The Audit annual assessment of their independence through the Groups intranet site: Committee has considered the various and objectivity.
operational audit and selfviewpoints expressed in this debate in the During the year, the external auditors certification tools which require context of Regus.
Given the significant provided the following audit and non-audit individual managers to confirm their level of other changes which are ongoing related services: adherence to Group policies and and includes the mix of countries in which procedures: and much of the audit work is conducted, the Audit related: KPMG Luxembourg, Socit rapid growth and evolving structure of the cooprative audited the consolidated a Group-wide policy to recruit Group, changes in financial organisation financial statements of the Company, and develop appropriately skilled and personnel, ongoing efforts to continue performed control observations throughout management and staff of high to improve audit effectiveness with the the Group and provided an overview of the calibre and integrity and with existing external auditors, and other half year results of the Company.
factors, the Audit Committee does not Non-audit related: KPMG Luxembourg, The Committee and the Board regard believe at this time that it is appropriate or Socit cooprative performed buy-side responsible corporate behaviour as an in the interest of shareholders to rotate due diligence work on certain acquisitions integral part of the overall governance external auditors primarily for the sake of by the Group.
framework and believes that it should change.
The Audit Committee will be be fully integrated into management complying with EU legislation regarding It is the Companys policy to use the structures and systems.
Therefore the auditor independence and rotation.
The external auditors for non-audit related risk management policies, procedures Audit Committee will continue to keep services only where the use of the external and monitoring methods described under review the independence and auditors will deliver a demonstrable above apply equally to the identification, objectivity of the external auditors, the benefit to the Company as compared to evaluation and control of the Companys effectiveness of the audit process, the use of other potential providers of the safety, ethical and environmental risks legislative developments, the rotation of services and where it will not impair their and opportunities.
This approach ensures the lead audit partner and other matters independence or objectivity.
All proposals that the Company has the necessary and as they monitor the appropriateness of the for permitted defined non-audit services adequate information to identify and retention of KPMG Luxembourg, Socit to use the external auditors must be assess risks and opportunities affecting cooprative as the Companys auditors.
submitted to, and authorised by, the the Companys long-term value arising Chief Financial Officer.
Elmar Heggen from its handling of corporate Chairman, Audit Committee Permitted non-audit services include responsibility and corporate advice on financial accounting and governance matters.
regulatory reporting matters, reviews of The Committee has completed its internal accounting and risk management annual review of the effectiveness of the controls, non-statutory audits e. g. system of internal control for the year to regarding acquisitions and disposal of 31 December 2014 and is satisfied that it assets and interests in companies and is in accordance with the FRC Revised tax compliance and advisory services.
The assessment Prohibited non-audit services include included consideration of the book-keeping and other accounting effectiveness of the Boards ongoing services, actuarial valuation services, process for identifying, evaluating and recruitment services in relation to key managing the risks facing the Group.
management positions and transaction www.
