70 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Nomination committee report The Nomination committee has an important role in leading the process for Board appointments and ensuring that the Board has the correct balance of experience, diversity and skills to support our business model and strategy.
Sir David R McMurtry Chairman and Chief Executive Chair of the Nomination committee PNJOBUJPO DPNNJUUFF SPMF BOE DPNQPTJUJPO The Nomination committee, which meets on an ad hoc basis as required, isresponsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board including its balance of skills, knowledge and experience and for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
The members of the Nomination committee are Sir David McMurtry Chair, CarolChesney, David Grant and John Jeans.
The majority of the members of thiscommittee are independent non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of this committee are published on the Companys website.
"""DUJWJUJFT EVSJOH UIF ZFBS #PBSESPPN EJWFSTJUZ The committee met six times during the The Board has considered the However, as an international company, year."
Further details are on page 69. recommendations of the Women on the Board acknowledges that diversity Boards report issued by Lord Davies of all types is a benefit and should be A recruitment consultant, CT Partners of Abersoch as regards setting out borne in mind when recruiting to all roles Augmentum, was engaged to seek aspirations for the appointment of within the Company and has a policy appropriate candidates forappointment women to the board by 2013 and 2015 to provide equal opportunities to all.
as an additional non-executive and has decided that it is inappropriate The Boards policy is to request where director following a review of the to set out any levels that may require recruitment consultants are appointed, composition of the Board and the positive discrimination in this respect, as that a proportion of female candidates experience represented.
The shortlist the overriding requirement is to appoint are included in their shortlist.
for interviewswas to include candidates directors with the necessary skills and that have the required skills and experience for the role.
experience and, where possible, at Sir David R McMurtry least one-third to be female candidates.
Chair of the Nomination committee This recruitment process is currently 23rd July 2014 ongoing.
CT Partners Augmentum has no other connection with the Company.
Appropriate succession plans for the Board and senior executives were also discussed.
