"64 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors corporate governance report #PBSE TUSVDUVSF #PBSE &YFDVUJWF 3FNVOFSBUJPO PNJOBUJPO ""VEJU #PBSE DPNNJUUFF DPNNJUUFF DPNNJUUFF %JWJTJPOBM EJSFDUPST BOE EJSFDUPST PG TVCTJEJBSZ VOEFSUBLJOHT PG 3FOJTIBX QMD borrowings, material agreements, "" -FBEFSTIJQ director and company secretary appointments and removals, any 5IF SPMF PG UIF #PBSE patent-related dispute andother material The Board comprises four executive litigation, forecasts and major product and three non-executive directors in development projects."
addition to the executive Chairman.
The Board meets as often as is The directors holding ofce at necessary to discharge its duties the dateof this report and short effectively.
In the financial year ended biographical details are given on pages 30th June 2014, the Board met ten 60 and 61.
Full biographical details times and the directors attendance are available onwww.
record at Board and committee The Company maintains liability meetings is set out at the end of this insurance for its directors and ofcers report.
In addition, the non-executive as disclosed in the Other statutory and directors met a number of times without regulatory disclosures.
There is a formal schedule of matters A high level summary of subject areas specically reserved to it for decision.
discussed during the year are set out These include the approval of annual onpage 65. and half year results and interim management statements, company andbusiness acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 65 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 JHI MFWFM TVNNBSZ PG TVCKFDUT EJTDVTTFE EVSJOH UIF ZFBS 4USBUFHZ 3JTL PWFSOBODF t Business strategy t Groups risk analysis t Legal updates and new disclosure requirements t Reviewing potential acquisitions disposals t Patent litigation t Board evaluation and actions arising t Products and technology t Succession planning t Engineering skills gap in schools initiatives t CSR targets 4UBLFIPMEFS FOHBHFNFOU 4BGFUZ 'JOBODF t AGM and other shareholder feedback t Health and safety system and reports t Forecasts t Investor day t Oversight of the preparation and management of the financial statements t New investor relations website t Dividend policy t Announcements The Board has three formally constituted and marketing policies and strategies and committees, the Audit committee, review its sales and marketing activities.
the Remuneration committee and the This committee is chaired by the Deputy Nomination committee.
Chairman and includes the Assistant 3 Chief Executive and Group Finance There is an executive management Director plus the directors of the five t Pensions committee known as the Executive largest sales subsidiaries and the Director Board that is responsible for the executive t Remuneration policy ofSales Development.
management of the Groups businesses.
t Salary reviews It is chaired by the Chairman and includes A framework of delegated authorities is t Bonus the executive directors of Renishaw in place that maps out the structure of plc and two senior management delegation below board level and includes representatives responsible for the the matters reserved to the Executive CMM product line and the North and Board and the level of authorities given to Central American market, respectively.
The Executive Board usually meets The Board has adopted a conict for two days on a monthly basis and of interests policy, putting in place considers the performance and strategic procedures for the disclosure and review direction of the metrology and healthcare of any conicts and potential conicts businesses and other matters of general and authorisation by the Board if felt importance to the Group.
Authorisations granted and there is an executive sales and marketing the terms of such are reviewed on an committee known as the International annual basis.
New disclosures are made Sales and Marketing Board which meets where applicable.
quarterly to determine the Groups sales 66 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors corporate governance report continued %JWJTJPO PG SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT $PNNJUNFOU # &GGFDUJWFOFTT UIF $IBJSNBO The terms of appointment of the nonexecutive directors, which includes The role of Chairman and Chief $PNQPTJUJPO PG UIF #PBSE Executive is a combined role and thus the expected time commitment from All the non-executive directors are non-executive directors and requiring contrary to the recommendations of considered by the Board to be theCode.
Sir David McMurtry has held any changes to other significant independent in character and judgement commitments to be discussed with this position since the Company became and there are no relationships or a quoted company in 1983 and he and the Chairman and Chief Executive in circumstances that are likely to affect advance, are available for inspection at John Deer hold the majority of the voting anon-executive directors judgement.
the AGM and at the registered ofce upon written request.
David Grant is on the boards of the There has been a voting agreement Defence Science and Technology None of the executive directors holds in place between Sir David and John Laboratory, STEMNET and the Deer since 1983, further details of which adirectorship in a FTSE 100 company.
Technology Strategy Board, with are set out in the Other statutory and whichthe Company has dealings.
%FWFMPQNFOU regulatory disclosures on page 82.
The Company confirms that David Grant Directors are offered the opportunity The Board considers that there is still a has taken no part in decisions relating clear division of responsibilities at Board to attend formal training courses to to any of the transactions between the update their knowledge of their duties as level to ensure an appropriate balance Company and these organisations.
of power and authority so that there is directors.
Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations are provided as no one person with unfettered powers John Jeans is on the Council of Cardiff of decision.
The Board and Executive University and the board of MRC appropriate.
Non-executive directors are invited to attend internal conferences, Board meet on a sufciently regular Technology, with which the Company basis to make decisions of signicance has dealings.
The Company confirms which provide information to the Group on new product development and to the metrology and healthcare that John Jeans has taken no part business segments and review in decisions relating to any of the marketing initiatives as well as our investor days, the first of which was held management actions.
It is intended that transactions between the Company this combined role will continue for so andthese organisations.
in May 2014. Business presentations are given at Board meetings to provide long as Sir David McMurtry remains The transactions referred to above are on the Board and he and John Deer updates on and opportunities to discuss not material.
hold a majority of the voting interests inthe Company.
The Code recommends that at least An induction pack is provided to new half the Board, excluding the Chairman, The Chairman has no other significant appointees to the Board and the should comprise independent induction programme together with the commitments as regards employment non-executive directors.
The Board ordirectorships of other companies.
continuing development programme complied with this requirement during includes site visits and briengs by part of the year but due to retirements PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST senior managers and attendance at the Board is not at the date of this report internal senior management conferences David Grant is the senior independent compliant.
A recruitment process has director and is available to discuss and external trade shows, as well as been commenced for an additional foreign subsidiary visits, as applicable.
material concerns with shareholders non-executive director as should the normal channels of the For example, the newer Board members described below.
"visited a number of foreign subsidiaries Chairman and Chief Executive orthe Group Finance Director fail in the period including the USA, Hong ""QQPJOUNFOUT UP UIF #PBSE Kong, Germany and Poland and to resolve such concerns."
The nonA description of the structure and executive directors meet without the attended strategy days and various activities of the Nomination committee trade shows.
executive directors present to discuss are set out in the Nomination committee performance and other matters.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 67 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 OGPSNBUJPO BOE TVQQPSU The Chairman and Chief Executive The Group has considerable financial discusses performance with resources at its disposal and the The Board receives appropriate individual directors.
directors have considered the current documentation, management accounts, financial projections.
As a consequence, forecasts and commentaries thereon 3F FMFDUJPO the directors believe that the Group in advance of each Board meeting In accordance with the Code all the is well placed to manage its business to enable its members to review the directors will retire from the Board at the risks successfully.
financial performance of the Group, next AGM and will offer themselves up current trading and key business After making enquiries, the directors for re-election at the AGM.
Regular financial updates have a reasonable expectation that the are also provided between meetings.
"Company and the Group have adequate $ ""DDPVOUBCJMJUZ The company secretary advises the resources to continue in operational Board on all governance matters."
existence for the foreseeable future.
'JOBODJBM BOE CVTJOFTT SFQPSUJOH All directors have access to the Accordingly, they continue to adopt the company secretary and to independent The respective responsibilities of the going concern basis in preparing the professional advice at the Companys directors and auditors in connection with Annual report and accounts.
expense where necessary to discharge the financial statements are explained their responsibilities as directors.
in Directors responsibilities on page 85 3JTL NBOBHFNFOU BOE JOUFSOBM The appointment and removal of the and the Independent auditors report DPOUSPM company secretary is a matter reserved onpage 86.
The Board is responsible for the for the Board.
Companys systems of risk management 'BJS CBMBODFE BOE VOEFSTUBOEBCMF and internal control and for reviewing &WBMVBUJPO The directors consider that the Annual their effectiveness.
Any system of The Board and committees report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced internal control is designed to manage undertake an annual evaluation of and understandable, and provides the rather than eliminate the risk of failure their performance.
The format for information necessary for shareholders to achieve business objectives and the evaluation varies each year.
to assess the Groups performance, can only provide reasonable and not Last year David Mensley of Equity business model and strategy.
absolute assurance against material Communications Limited was appointed misstatement or loss.
PJOH DPODFSO to undertake an externally facilitated There are dened lines of responsibility evaluation through use of a thorough The Groups strategy for delivering its and delegation of authorities.
questionnaire focusing on topics such objectives and its business model, There are also established and centrally as board effectiveness, corporate together with the factors likely to affect documented control procedures, strategy, risk oversight, training and its future development, performance including, for example, capital and other board administration.
The process and position are set out in the Strategic expenditure, information and technology also included the Board committees.
report, where are also given details security, and legal and regulatory Equity Communications Limited of the financial and liquidity positions.
These are applied has no other connection with the In addition, note 22 in the financial throughout the Group.
Following the evaluation the statements includes the Groups Board worked on the improvement objectives and policies for managing its of meeting administration including capital, details of its financial instruments agendas, dissemination of updated and hedging activities and its exposures financial information and provision of to credit risk and liquidity risk.
summaries of Executive Board meetings to non-executive directors shortly after each Executive Board meeting.
A strategy day was also held.
This year an internal evaluation has been carried out and comments supplied by the directors were discussed and action points agreed.
68 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors corporate governance report continued The group internal audit function The Board considers that there is Open webcasts of presentations on provides independent and objective an ongoing process for identifying, annual and half-yearly results are held assurance that the procedures are evaluating and managing the significant and recordings of the presentations appropriate and effectively applied.
risks facing the Group that has been and the subsequent question and The Group Audit Manager attends Audit in place during the year, is regularly answer sessions made available after committee meetings to present annual reviewed and accords with the Turnbull the webcast on the Companys website.
internal audit plans and the results guidance.
The Board confirms that Analysts and brokers reports will be of such internal audits.
Actions are necessary action has been or is being circulated to the Board.
The Board monitored by the Audit committee taken to remedy any significant failings intends to hold open discussions with onanongoing basis.
or weaknesses identied from its review.
"any shareholder who wishes to share views with the directors at the AGM There is a process for the review of ""VEJU DPNNJUUFF BOE BVEJUPS or the annual investor day at which business risks throughout the Group."
A description of the structure and presentations on Group strategy, These are reported on a monthly basis activities of the Audit committee are set business segments and product lines by senior management and overseas out in the Audit committee report on will be given by members of the Board subsidiaries.
These reports are reviewed pages 71 to 73. and senior management, as well as by the Board.
tours covering the Groups activities.
% 3FNVOFSBUJPO The Board ensures that there are This year 60 market participants attended the Companys inaugural effective internal controls over the The Directors remuneration report financial reporting and consolidation investor day which included a Q&A with explains how the Company applies the the Board.
Open days with appropriate processes.
Monthly accounts and Code principles relating to remuneration.
forecasts are presented to the Board for notice may be organised from time to time at the Companys site.
The Group internal audit function & 3FMBUJPOT XJUI undertakes a programme of review of relations website has been signicantly TIBSFIPMEFST expanded in the period including a range subsidiaries accounting processes and performance to provide assurance to the of corporate videos which are being developed.
This is an ongoing process.
Board on the integrity of the information %JBMPHVF XJUI TIBSFIPMEFST supplied by each company which The Board announced a new policy forms part of the consolidated results in the 2013 Annual report.
meetings will be held other than shareholder meetings with the The Board undertakes an annual Chairman, Senior independent director formal review of the effectiveness of the and or any other non-executive Groups system of internal controls and director where a shareholder has an updated risk and controls analysis for material issues, concerns or questions.
The review covers all material The director attending such a meeting controls, including financial, operational will communicate the shareholders and compliance controls and risk issues, concerns or questions to the management systems.
The Boards response will be published on the Renishaw website for the benefit of all shareholders where appropriate.
The interim and annual results and presentations are posted on the Companys website promptly after announcement of the results to the UK Listing Authority via an RIS.
"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 69 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 $POTUSVDUJWF VTF PG UIF ""."
%JTDMPTVSF SVMF %53 3 $PNQMJBODF TUBUFNFOU The AGM takes place at the Companys headquarters or one of the Companys The information regarding share capital The Board considers that it has other sites and formal notication is sent required to be disclosed by this rule is complied with the requirements of the to the shareholders at least 20 working contained in the Other statutory and Code throughout the year except in days before the meeting.
relation to the following matters the presentation is given and all directors are reasons for non-compliance are stated #PBSE BOE DPNNJUUFF available for questions during and after in the report above : the meeting, including the chairs of the NFFUJOH BUUFOEBODF SFDPSE - the combined role of chairman and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination chief executive code provision A.
Tours of the Companys Shown against each directors name and facilities are offered.
in the table below is the number of meetings of the Board and its - for part of the year at least half The Company reports on the number committees at which the director was theboard did not comprise of proxy votes lodged on each present and, in brackets, the number of independent non-executive resolution, the balance for and against meetings that the director was eligible to directors code provision B.
2.1. each resolution and the number of attend during the year.
votes withheld after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of David Grant hands.
This information is provided Senior independent director to the shareholders attending the 23rd July 2014 AGM and published via an RIS and on the Companys website following the meeting.
#PBSE BUUFOEBODF SFDPSE Audit Remuneration Nomination %JSFDUPS Board committee committee committee Sir David McMurtry 10 10 6 6 D J Deer 10 10 B R Taylor 10 10 A C G Roberts 10 10 G McFarland 10 10 C T Chesney 10 10 3 3 3 3 6 6 D Grant 10 10 3 3 3 3 6 6 D J Jeans 8 9 3 3 2 3 4 6 W H Whiteley 2 3 2 2 2 2 0 0 John Jeans partly attended one board meeting because of a commitment to attend a Ministerial Medical Technology Strategy Group and did not attend committee meetings held on that day.
He did not attend board and committee meetings held on another day for family medical reasons.
Bill Whiteley did not attend the board meeting held on the day of the AGM 2013 as he was not being put forward for re-election.
