58 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Introduction The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all of the Groups activities, itsstrategy and financial performance, for the efficient use of the Groups resources and for social, environmental andethical matters.
David Grant Senior independent director With the assistance of the Audit The most significant changes have committee, the Board approves the been to our Directors remuneration Groups governance framework and report together with a binding vote reviews its risk management and at the AGM on our remuneration internal control processes with a view to policy as well as a new requirement maintaining high standards of corporate for a relationship agreement with governance throughout the Group.
The Board takes seriously its Our 2013 externally facilitated Board responsibilities for making sure that all evaluation by David Mensley of Equity employees are aware of their obligations Communications provided much to act with openness, honesty and positive and constructive feedback and transparency.
These values are in the period we were able to identify embedded in our Group Business focus areas to ensure that the Board Codeand Anti-Bribery Policy which can continues to operate in an open and be found at http: www.
com transparent way and constructively businesscode.
In 2014, we carried challenges and supports the executive on rolling out our anti-bribery training team.
More details are provided on and since 2011, when we approved page 67. our policy, 713 relevant worldwide Another key area was our first investor employees have received training.
day on 15th May 2014, attended by During the last financial year our 60 market participants where there governance framework has been was a wide range of presentations enhanced to take into account the including corporate overview and changes introduced by the September strategy, financial overview, business 2012 edition of the UK Corporate sector strategies, product and market Governance Code the Code and overviews, healthcare and metrology the commencement of The Large and product demonstrations as well as Medium-sized Companies and Groups various Q&A sessions.
Our investor Accounts and Reports Amendment relations website was also signicantly Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
