Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 71 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Audit committee report The Audit committee has a vital role to play in ensuring the integrity of our financial statements and the effectiveness of our risk management processes and internal controls.
During 2014 we also monitored the various changes to the Code and this report Carol Chesney Non-executive director explains how we fullled our duties.
"Chair of the Audit committee ""VEJU DPNNJUUFF SPMF BOE DPNQPTJUJPO The Audit committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures of the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory requirements."
The committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal audit function.
Further details are provided below.
The Audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors, Carol Chesney Chair, David Grant and John Jeans.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience, being Carol Chesney.
The terms of reference of this committee were reviewed during the year and are available on the Companys website.. FFUJOHT 'BJS CBMBODFE BOE VOEFSTUBOEBCMF SFQPSU The committee meets at least three andaccounts times a year with the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, One of the key governance requirements the Group Audit Manager and the is for the Annual report to be fair, external auditors in attendance.
At least one meeting, or part thereof, is Ensuring that this standard is met held with the external auditor without requires continuous assessment of the executive directors present.
This year financial reporting issues affecting the the committee met three times, further Group on a year-round basis in addition details are on page 69. to a number of focused exercises that take place during the accounts production process within astrict time frame.
An extensive verication exercise was undertaken to ensure the factual accuracy of the Annual report by 72 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Audit committee report continued the Board and senior management.
When tendering for audit services, JJ 5IF DBSSZJOH WBMVF PG JOWFOUPSZ An advanced draft of the Annual report tenders will not be assessed solely Provisions are made to write down was considered by the committee at on the basis of lowest fees, but on a slow-moving and obsolete inventory its meeting on 9th July 2014 with a number of issues such as: items to net realisable value, based final draft being reviewed on 18thJuly on an assessment of technological t skills and knowledge of the team 2014 prior to it being presented to the and market developments and on proposed to do the work: Board.
Following those discussions, the an analysis of historic and projected committee advised the Board that the t quality of work: demand.
The assessment used Annual report, taken as a whole is fair, to calculate the provisions needed t independence of the audit rm from balanced and understandable.
requires the application of judgement the Company: by management.
The directors statement on a fair, t audit partner rotation and balanced and understandable annual The committee received conrmation succession planning: report is set out on page 67. from management that the approach t global coverage for the used to determine the provision was Significant issues in rFMBUJPO Companys subsidiaries: consistent with the previous year and to the financial statements made enquiries of management to gain t value for money: an understanding of how business As part of the reporting and review developments, both technological t audit approach and methodology: process, the committee has regular and market driven, had impacted the t internal governance processes: discussions with management and the provision during the year.
The external external auditor relating to significant auditor explained to the committee t technical capabilities of the rm as issues.
During the year the committee the work they had performed on awhole: and considered the significant issues set inventory provisions during the year.
t ethical behaviour and fair dealing.
out below in relation to the financial The committee was satisfied that the statements.
Also contained below is management judgements applied were The committee assesses the a commentary on how these issues appropriate and that the provision was effectiveness of the external audit were addressed: appropriately stated at the year end.
"process and the quality of the audit work throughout the year by considering: J 5IF DBSSZJOH WBMVF PG HPPEXJMM ""QQSPBDI UP BVEJUPS t any issues arising from the prior The committee focused on the BQQPJOUNFOU BOE BVEJU RVBMJUZ year audit: impairment testing by the Company of the carrying value of goodwill."
The committee has primary t the proposed audit plan including By applying knowledge and making responsibility for making the the identication of risks specic enquiries of the relevant cash generating recommendation on the appointment, to the Group, audit scope and units, reviewing the forecasts and the reappointment and removal of the materiality thresholds: sensitivity analysis, the committee external auditor, which the Board puts t feedback from the agreed with the conclusion reached that to shareholders for approval at the executive management: no impairments were required.
During the previous financial year, the committee adopted policies t the delivery of the audit in line with on non-audit services and audit the plan: services provision.
KPMG LLP and its t the communication of matters arising predecessor rms have been auditor during the audit to the committee: since 1974 and the lead audit partner has changed in line with their internal t private meetings with the auditor rotation requirements.
There has been without management being present: no tender for audit services since 1974. and It is intended that a tender for the audit t the independence and objectivity will take place in 2017. ofthe auditor.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 73 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 OEFQFOEFODF PG FYUFSOBM 0UIFS NBUUFST BVEJUPS The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the Company may, In order to safeguard the independence in confidence, raise matters of concern, and objectivity of the external auditor, the including possible improprieties in committee reviews the nature and extent financial reporting or other matters.
of the non-audit services supplied, It also monitors the effectiveness of receiving reports on the balance of the Companys procedures to avoid auditto non-audit fees.
The committee any bribery related to the activities of regards it most cost efficient to use the the Group.
external auditor for tax advice and compliance since this requires an in-depth knowledge and understanding Carol Chesney of theCompanys business, products, Chair of the Audit committee customer base and markets.
The non-audit services policy provides 23rd July 2014 thatthe auditor shall not be allowed toprovide services where there is involvement in management functions ormanagement decision making: and or any service on which management may place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
There are also specified services which require the prior approval of the Group Finance Director and Audit committee chair before the auditor may be appointed toprovide such services.
In addition there are specified levels of authorisation to beobtained before the auditor maybepermitted to tender for non-audit services.
An analysis of fees paid to KPMG LLP, including the split between audit and non-audit services, is included in note 6 to the accounts.
