42 Corporate Governance Executive Leadership Team Managing Director of the Pest 1 2 4.
Martin Sawkins Control division, UK and Ireland in Group HR Director 59 2009.
Previously at Lex Service RAC plc for 15 years, holding Skills and experience Managing Director positions of Martin joined the Company in commercial fleet and outsourced November 2008.
He previously vehicle solution divisions.
Prior to held positions as Group HR that he held commercial business Director at HomeServe plc, development and senior Group HR Director at The AA Ltd operational roles within the Lex and HR Director at Centrica 3 4 Service Group.
Prior to this he held a number of senior Qualifications positions in HR and operations First class BSc Hons in atBritish Aerospace and United Management Science from Biscuits.
BSc Hons in Physics from Southampton University.
Other appointments Non-executive Director of Wincanton plc and Scapa 7.
Stewart Power Skills and experience Chief Marketing Officer 44 John was appointed to the above position in October 2013.
He Skills and experience joined the Company in 2008 as 7 8 Stewart was appointed to the President and Chief Executive of above position in March 2014 North America Pest Control having covered it on an interim division.
His previous career was basis since December 2013.
He as Senior Vice President of Sales joined Rentokil Initial in 2006 as at Cintas Corporation.
He Director of Marketing and previously held a number of Strategy for the Rentokil division operations and business and became Group Marketing development roles within the Director in 2010.
Prior to this he Cintas Group.
Prior to that he was held roles as Marketing and President and Chief Executive at Strategy Director at RAC 1.
Jrgen Hfling Bio Quest LLC and began his Business Solutions, Director of Chief Executive 51 Managing Director, Europe 51 career with American National Business Solutions at Capita Can Company where he held a Please see page 40.
Skills and experience Group and was a management Jrgen joined the Company in variety of sales, operations and consultant with the Boston The Chief Executive chairs the October 2014.
His previous career marketing roles including one Consulting Group.
He started his Executive Leadership Team, was in sales and marketing in the international assignment.
career at the BOC Group plc comprising the key regional logistics sector, principally 14 spending seven years in strategy, Qualifications business and functional leaders.
years at Deutsche Post and DHL marketing and sales roles.
Degree in Business They meet regularly to review International.
He held the position Administration from the University operational performance, Qualifications of Chief Executive Officer, DHL of Vermont and MBA from Mercer execution against strategy, Global Mail, responsible for the MBA from London Business University.
governance and risk worldwide mail business of School.
BSc in Physics from management.
DHL Deutsche Post outside Imperial College, University of Other appointments Germany.
From 2009 he was London and a member of the Member of the United Way Board founding partner of Theron Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Jeremy Townsend in Berks County.
Management Advisors, an Chief Financial Officer and international management Chief Information Officer 51 6.
He is aGerman Managing Director, General Counsel & Company Please see page 40. national and fluent in English, UK & Rest of World 49 Secretary 45 French and German.
Skills and experience Please see page 41.
Qualifications Phill was appointed to the above Degree in Integration & Marketing, position in October 2013.
He Wharton School of the University joined the Company in 2006 as of Pennsylvania.
Managing Director Europe Pest Other appointments Control and was appointed None.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
