58 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Report Role of the Committee The Committee has delegated authority from the Board as set out John McAdam Chairman in its terms of reference.
The primary purpose of the Committee is to ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge andexperience of the Board is undertaken and to recommend anychanges to the composition of the Board and its Committees andtoinstigate and manage recruitment processes.
Material findings and recommendations are reported at the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes of meetings are circulated to all Directors where appropriate.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed by the Committee during 2014 and are available at www.
com Dear fellow shareholder The Nomination Committee provides a focus for the key task Composition of the Committee of ensuring that the Board continues to comprise a group of The composition of the Committee and attendance at meetings in individuals who work effectively together as a team and who 2014 is shown in the chart on page 49.
The Committee met three possess the right mix of experience and talent to provide effective times during the year.
All Non-executive Directors are invited to oversight and challenge to management.
participate in meetings of the Committee.
After the selection of a new Chief Executive in 2013, the Appointment process and diversity Committees principal task in 2014 was to appoint a new Our policy on appointments to the Board is set out in the Corporate Chairman of the Audit Committee to succeed Duncan TattonGovernance Report on page 44.
In brief, all appointments are Brown.
After a thorough review of external candidates with the made on merit against objective criteria and the process is usually assistance of Korn Ferry, Julie Southern was appointed to the supported through the use of an external recruitment consultant.
Board and to the position of Chairman of the Audit Committee This process was followed over the appointment of Julie Southern inJuly.
Julie has brought a wealth of experience and expertise in 2014.
The process typically commences with the selection of a tothe Board and the operations of the Audit Committee, and we suitable recruitment consultant, who will be briefed on the skill sets look forward to benefiting from her contribution over the years and candidate experience we were seeking to attract.
consultant Korn Ferry in the case of Julie Southern, then prepares The Committee continued to review the development of the a candidate specification for approval by the Committee.
Thereafter senior cadre of executives in the Company, and we were pleased potential candidates are identified, interviews take place with to note that a significantly higher proportion of appointments in members of the Committee, with other Non-executive Directors and the senior management team were being made from internal with Executive Directors, following which the Nomination Committee candidates, demonstrating improved strength in depth in the forms a recommendation for consideration by the Board.
management and improving the likelihood of future Executive A similar process is undertaken when external candidates are under Director roles being appointed from within the organisation.
The Committees report on the year follows.
The Board remains of the firm view that in order to secure the best Yours faithfully talent either for the Board, or for within the business, it is essential to draw on the widest possible talent pool, and our diversity policy requires selection from diverse, objective and purely merit-based shortlists.
Diversity enriches debate and problem solving at Board level and enhances operational performance as well as governance processes.
The Board meets the Davies Reports targets for more John McAdam balanced gender representation.
Chairman, The Board is mindful that as Director rotation occurs candidates Nomination Committee will be sought who fit the skills criteria and gender balance that is in 26 February 2015 line with the Board aspiration, and the needs of the global business.
We continue to focus on encouraging diversity and business skills and experience throughout the group, recognising that Directors and leaders in our businesses with diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the effectiveness of the organisation.
The gender breakdown for the group as a whole some 28,731 colleagues at the end of 2014 and for the senior management population some 1,388 colleagues is provided in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 33.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 59 Director induction process Activities of the Committee in 2014 Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and Group HR Director Audit Committee chairman succession ensures that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company As mentioned above, the main task of the Committee in 2014 ismade available.
The induction process is summarised below: was the appointment of a successor to Duncan Tatton-Brown as Chairman of the Audit Committee, following the process outlined On appointment the Company Secretary provides information on above.
The Committee was supported in this work by Korn Ferry thegroups businesses, including: and by the Group HR Director.
Board and relevant Committee minutes from the prior year Other matters considered by the Committee in 2014 Key Board papers from the prior year included: Key policies and procedures A review of the Committees report within the 2013 Annual Report Governance information about the Company, including the role of and recommended approval to the Board the Board, Board and Executive Committees, Chairman and Chief A review of the Committees effectiveness which was externally Executive facilitated by Lintstock, an independent corporate governance Guidance for Directors on their legal and regulatory responsibilities consultancy in a UK publicly listed company, including briefings, on request, A review of the potential conflicts of interest authorised by the from the Companys external legal advisors Board and a review of the processes in place to ensure that Before and after the first Board meeting the new Director will attend: potential conflicts are properly considered A review of the performance of individual Directors, utilising Business briefings with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial the output from the Board evaluation process, and making Officer recommendations to the Board over the re-election of Directors Meetings with other members of the senior management team at the AGM Meetings with country managers Visits to sites within the UK and or overseas, including opportunities Committee effectiveness to spend time with frontline staff in the course of their duties The Committee conducted a review of how it operates, which Meeting with the auditor and financial advisors concluded that the Committee had operated effectively in 2014.
TheCommittee noted that in 2015 its attention would be focused on Non-executive Director rotation as well as broader executive andBoard succession planning.
John McAdam Chairman, Nomination Committee 26 February 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
