44 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Good corporate governance from the Board down through the business units ensures the right decision-making processes, controls and information to drive strategy and deliver long-term shareholder value.
Key Board roles Compliance statement The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and As noted in the Chairmans introduction, the principal governance Chief Executive is set out in writing and is summarised on page 45, framework applying to the Company is the UK Corporate Governance together with the primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Code the Code.
The Company has complied throughout 2014 Director and those of the Company Secretary.
Non-executive Directors with the relevant main principles and detailed provisions set out in have regular opportunities to meet with members of Executive the Code published in 2012.
This Corporate Governance Report also management and also hold discussions under the leadership of the addresses the requirements of the Code published in September Chairman without Executive members present.
At least once a year 2014 which will apply to future reporting periods from 1 October 2014 Non-executive Directors meet under the leadership of the Senior and will seek to comply with the 2014 Code from 2015 onwards.
The Independent Director without the Chairman being present.
Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and the full text is available on its website at www.
uk Appointments to the Board and composition The Companys articles of association empower the Board to Role and effectiveness of the Board appoint new Directors.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent The role of the Board procedure for appointing Directors, a Nomination Committee The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the comprising independent Non-executive Directors and chaired by the Company by creating value for shareholders and always acting in Company Chairman has responsibility for managing the appointment their interests.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human process and its work is described on page 58. resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives as well as ensuring that it takes into account safety, environmental In order for the Board to discharge its duties and responsibilities and social factors when reviewing operations and taking decisions.
effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals whose skills and experience are gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
Most Specifically the Board must: importantly, Directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity provide entrepreneurial leadership and have the ability to challenge constructively when appropriate.
All appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In the understand and monitor risk case of candidates for Non-executive Directorships, time commitment develop the business model, consider and approve strategy, and potential conflicting interests are considered carefully by the approve annual operating plans and major transactions Nomination Committee.
Pro-forma letters of appointment and ensure the adequacy of management resources and make employment contracts are available for public inspection on the executive appointments including that of the Chief Executive Companys website.
challenge and support Executive management, oversee the At the date of this report the Board has eight members: the governance process and the control framework Chairman, five Non-executive Directors, and two Executive Directors.
report to shareholders and be accountable to them The names of the Directors serving throughout and at the end of 2014 and their biographical details are set out on pages 40 to 41.
A schedule of the matters reserved for the Boards attention is Duncan Tatton-Brown stepped down as a Director on 14 May 2014 reviewed annually and was most recently reviewed in December and Peter Long stepped down from the Board as a Director and 2014.
The schedule sets out the Boards ultimate responsibility for Senior Independent Director on 31 December 2014. the groups strategy, operations and risks and reserves to the Board power to approve a range of decisions of a significant nature.
The As mentioned in the introduction, diversity considerations are among schedule is available on the Companys website.
the important factors considered by the Nomination Committee and the Board when considering the composition of the Board.
Without seeking to single out one responsibility above others, the The Nomination Committee and the Board will continue to seek to Board is mindful of its responsibility for the groups risk management identify the best-qualified candidates to enhance the effectiveness approach, including evaluating and reviewing the overall level of risk of the Board, regardless of gender, ethnicity or other personal that is inherent in its strategy and for the execution of that strategy.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would impact its business model and future performance, and more detail of the key risks identified and considered is set out at page 36.
An overview of the matters considered by the Board in 2014 is shown in the table on page 50.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 45 For more information Board responsibilities go to pages 47-49 Principal governance responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Company Secretary John McAdam Andy Ransom Director Peter Long Paul Griffiths to 31 December 2014 to 29 July 2014 Duties include: Duties include: Daragh Fagan Recommending strategy and Duties include: Leading and managing from 30 July 2014 strategic priorities Leading the Non-executive the Board Directors appraisal of the Duties include: Managing agreed strategies Providing timely information Secretary to the Board and each Chairman and strategic priorities to Directors of its Committees, reporting Work with the Chairman on Operational and financial Setting the agenda and directly to their Chairmen Board effectiveness performance, including managing the Boards time Secretary to the Executive identifying and managing risks Providing an alternative channel Communication with Leadership Team, reporting directly to delivery of strategy of communication for investors, shareholders to the Chief Executive primarily on corporate governance With the Chief Financial Director induction, training matters Assisting the Chairman and Officer, explaining performance and development Senior Independent Director in to shareholders Being a sounding board for the Board succession and Chair their evaluation of the Boards Chairman Executive management of the Nomination Committee effectiveness capability and development Performance evaluation of the Keeping the Board and its Overall development of group Board and Chief Executive Committees informed on policies governance matters and advising Responsibility for all corporate on these through their Chairmen responsibility matters which are Assisting in the overall development reviewed at least annually by of group policies the Board and by the Executive Leadership Team The groups corporate responsibility performance is in the groups web-based 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report which is available online at www.
com the benefit of the execution of business strategy, and as a group and Balance and independence of Board members individually constructively challenge the Executive team both at Board The Board believes that it and its Committees have an appropriate and Committee meetings as well as during the many exchanges composition to discharge their duties effectively and to manage which occur between formal meetings.
The Board keeps its membership and that of its Committees under review to ensure that an acceptable balance All Non-executive Directors other than the Chairman have been is maintained and that the collective skills and experience of its determined by the Board to be independent, having retained members continue to be refreshed.
It is satisfied that all Directors their independence of character and judgement.
In making this have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that undue reliance determination the Board has taken into account indicators of potential isnot placed on any individual.
non-independence as set out in the Code.
No Director took part in the Boards consideration of their own independence.
All Directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere The Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be with their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of service.
the agreement of the Chairman before proceeding.
This ensures that Inthe case of Peter Long, who stepped down at the end of any potential conflicts of interest are considered and addressed.
The December 2014 and had served as a Director for 12 years, the Board major commitments of the Directors are shown in their biographical continued to benefit from his considerable experience and knowledge information on pages 40 and 41.
Currently Non-executive Directors resulting from the length of his service as well as from his wider are obliged to commit at least 20 days a year and the Chairman is business experience.
obliged to commit at least two days a week to the Company.
The continuing independence of Non-executive Directors is critical to their ongoing effectiveness over challenging executive management.
The independence of Directors is reviewed as part of the individual Director performance evaluation process.
The performance evaluation process provides assurance that all Non-executive members of the Board retain the independence of judgement which underpins the culture of constructive challenge in the boardroom.
The Nonexecutive Directors bring their wide experience to the boardroom for Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 46 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued The Board considered the output from the 2014 review at its meeting Directors length of service on 18 February 2015.
The review reported further progress in the Directors tenure effectiveness of the Board and against the actions identified in the 2013 review.
Following some suggestions for further improvements, 25% 0-3 years the Board agreed a number of actions, summarised below: 12% 4-5 years 38% 6-7 years Operational business reviews: allowing more time for formal 25% 8-9 years deep dive reviews of all five regional businesses, the core categories and key functions.
These have been scheduled into the Board calendar for 2015, to allow thoughtful, detailed preparation.
Risk oversight: greater time for the Audit Committee to review the schedule of key risks and gaining greater clarity on the effectiveness of mitigation measures.
In addition, Regional Finance Directors Board performance, training and succession would attend Audit Committee meetings ahead of regional deep The Board ensures that the Directors continue to provide suitable dives at the Board.
leadership for the Company through a regular performance evaluation Digital marketing: building on the greater focus in the second half process, training processes, Board succession planning and annual of 2014, this will continue to receive regular updates on progress at re-election by shareholders.
each Board meeting and be reviewed in depth at least once in 2015.
Performance evaluation Succession planning: focus on refreshing the Boards range of This involved an external independent facilitator, Lintstock, engaging skills as new appointments are made, and succession planning for with the Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy We will report on progress in implementing the actions in the and has no commercial dealings with the group, other than over the 2015Report.
provision of corporate governance services to the Board.
Actions taken following the 2013 evaluation were as follows: Succession planning The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for Competitor Landscape Presentations to the Board included Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee detailed analyses of the competitive position of the group in its has conducted a performance evaluation of each Non-executive key markets and positioning in relation to key competitors and Director seeking re-election and concluded that their performance generally.
Enhancing the Boards understanding of the competitor continues to be effective and that each demonstrates commitment to landscape was a regular feature of briefings by management and the role.
The Committee is also satisfied that the backgrounds, skills the ChiefExecutive.
experience and knowledge of the continuing Directors collectively Differentiated Strategy Use of the four quadrants Emerging, enables the Board and the Committees to discharge their duties Growth, Protect & Enhance and Manage For Value became an and responsibilities effectively.
Further information on the succession established means of analysing and articulating the performance planning process is included in the Nomination Committee Report of the business, from operational management to growth and onpage 58. investment metrics including M&A activity.
Training Greater Focus on Strategic Risk Issues At the Boards strategy Where appropriate, Directors participate in peer group discussion review session in November 2014 and periodically during the forums and seminars related to the commercial environment remainder of the year, strategic risks, and efforts to understand and targeted at specific needs, for example relating to executive andmitigate their impact were discussed by the Board.
remuneration, financial reporting or risk management.
Training also Greater Exposure to Leadership and Talent Pool The range covers the group, its business sectors and governance matters more ofExecutives who engaged with the Board during the year was generally, including individual experiences with frontline staff.
broadened and plans for scheduled in-depth reviews by the Board and Further information on the induction process for new Directors is Audit Committee of key regions and functions are in place for 2015. included in the Nomination Committee Report.
The external evaluation in 2014 covered: the balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge, diversity including gender of Board members, how the Board works together, all of which are important factors relevant to an assessment of the Boards effectiveness.
This year there was particular emphasis on the way in which the Committees, the Board and the Chairman exercised their strategic andoperational oversight role.
This included a review of our organic and M&A growth plans, oversight of category and regional strategy, and the nature of and competitive dynamic in the markets where the group operates.
The review also covered: Board time management, strategic and operational risk oversight, key talent and succession, andthe quality of information flow and Board support.
Theanonymity of all respondents was ensured in order to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 47 Annual re-election Board Committees and Board support In accordance with the Code, the Directors are subject to annual In addition to a clear statement of the matters reserved to the Board, re-election by shareholders.
To enable shareholders to make an each Board Committee has written terms of reference, approved informed decision, the 2015 notice of the AGM includes biographical by the Board, summarising its objectives, remit and powers.
These information and a statement as to why the Company believes the are available on the Companys website at www.
The results of the individual Director Membership of the principal Board Committees is shown in the performance review undertaken by the Chairman indicate that each Directors attendance and membership table on page 49.
Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to Agendas, papers and minutes of Committee meetings are provided the role.
to all Board members, save for the private sessions of Committee The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all members.
Chairmen of Committees update the Board following each Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective Committee meeting.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of McAdam, the Company Chairman.
The chairmen of Committees commitment to the role.
The terms of the Directors service contracts attend the AGM to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report starting on Reports by the principal Board Committees Audit, Remuneration page60.
Directors interests in shares are disclosed on page 77. andNomination, including a full discussion of their terms of reference, Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the role, structure and composition are set out between pages 52 and 69.
Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available at the AGM which will take place For more details see: on 13 May 2015.
A pro-forma of the Non-executive Directors letters Audit Committee page 52 of appointment is available at www.
com Nomination Committee page 58 Remuneration Committee page 68 Governance overview Board Senior Leadership Nomination Chief Executive Forum Committee Investment Committee Pest Hygiene Executive Remuneration IT Investment category board Leadership Team Committee Committee Workwear Disclosure Audit Risk Committee category board Committee Committee Finance Functional and Regional Committee Governance Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 48 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued In addition to the principal Board Committees, the Board operates Senior Leadership Forum a number of ad hoc Committees.
The main one being the Finance The Chief Executive has also established the Senior Leadership Forum Committee which comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, comprising approximately 25 of the most senior operational and the Chief Financial Officer and Non-executive Directors with functional colleagues globally who meet on a monthly basis by relevant financial experience.
This Committee reviews matters conference call and twice a year in person, to share progress and concerning Company financing and group treasury policy and makes discuss a range of issues that are critical to the operational recommendations to the Board on financing matters.
performance of the group as a whole.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, ensures Clear roles and responsibilities that the Board is kept properly informed and that matters are given Disclosure Committee appropriate attention.
Board papers and other information and The Companys Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial resources are provided in sufficient time to allow Directors to be Officer, supports the Boards responsibility for the accuracy and properly briefed in advance of meetings.
All Directors are able to timeliness of the disclosures made by the Company, whether in make further enquiries of the Executive Directors or management connection with its financial reporting obligations or on other matters.
whenever necessary and have full access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on Group Risk Committee corporate governance matters.
There is also a procedure in place The Companys Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial for Directors to take independent legal advice, if they judge this to Officer, has oversight of the groups risk and control functions and benecessary, at the Companys expense.
reviews the risks the group is facing and the effectiveness of the internal controls.
It includes the Company Secretary and representatives from Managing conflicts of interest the HR, operational, IT, finance and internal audit functions.
Risk The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they management and internal control is an intrinsic part of the governance have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or might process as is the identification, management and control of risk.
possibly conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Board is Copies of the minutes of the Group Risk Committee are provided to permitted under powers from shareholders contained in the articles the Audit Committee.
Information on the risk management and control of association to authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
framework is provided in the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 36 to 38 and in the Audit Committee Report on pages 52 to 57.
The Company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation where a Director has a conflict of interest and as part of the process Investment Committee the Board considers each potential conflict situation on its particular The Companys Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief merits.
The Board maintains a register of authorisations granted and Executive and including the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial the scope of any approvals given.
These potential conflicts are not Controller and the Company Secretary, reviews and approves material either to the Company or, the Directors believe, to the other investments below the threshold requiring approval by the Board, companies that are the subject of the potential conflict.
The register including M&A transactions, property sales and investments and of authorised conflicts is reviewed by the Board regularly.
All of the environmental remediation expenditures.
approvals given have been situational and no transactional conflicts Performance reviews have occurred.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer lead monthly Details of Directors interests are shown on pages 40 to 41.
No andquarterly business performance reviews with business unit Director has had a material interest in any contract of significance management teams.
inrelation to the Companys business at any time during the year Category Boards ortothe date of this report.
There are category Boards for pest control, hygiene and workwear.
These are forums where the senior operational and functional leaders Executive governance of the relevant category meet to coordinate the development agenda The Boards governance procedures delegate the day-to-day for growth and productivity initiatives and to oversee the sharing of management of the groups businesses to the Chief Executive who in best practice.
They meet at least quarterly with the Pest and Hygiene turn cascades authority to the wider management population through category Boards being chaired by the Chief Executive, while the a documented schedule of authorities, setting out responsibilities, Workwear Board is chaired by the Managing Director, Europe.
decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels Corporate responsibility in the organisation.
The Chief Executive is responsible for corporate responsibility and the Executive Leadership Team Executive Leadership Team has authority for reviewing all aspects of To support the Chief Executive in managing the business at group corporate responsibility.
The Board reviews specific corporate level the Executive Leadership Team has been established under responsibility matters on a regular basis and on a broader basis at least the Chief Executives chairmanship and comprises the groups once a year.
A Safety, Health and Environment SHE report, including operational heads for Europe, North America and UK & Rest of a review of SHE KPIs, is the first item on the agenda at each meeting World and the Heads of the Finance and IT, Human Resources and of the Board, Executive Leadership Team and Senior Leadership Marketing & Innovation Functions, as well as the Company Secretary.
SHE performance outcomes are published annually.
Further They meet regularly to review performance, operational actions, information can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section governance and risk management.
Biographical information on the onpages 33 to 35 and at www.
com Executive Directors, Andy Ransom and Jeremy Townsend, and on the Company Secretary, Daragh Fagan, is provided on pages 40 to 41 and information on other current members of the Executive Leadership Team is shown on page 42.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 49 Business units Board meetings The governance process in business units comprises the application The Board met 11 times during the year, all scheduled meetings, and of group and local policies and procedures, management oversight a Committee of the Board met six times in relation to the release of and the analysis and management of risk, all underpinned by the quarterly results, the disposal of Initial Facilities and the allotment of groups values and behaviours.
The group operates through locally shares under the 2008 one-off incentive arrangement.
As in previous constituted and governed legal entities in 63 countries.
All staff are years the Board has this year visited one of its overseas operations, required to act in accordance with principles set out in the groups on this occasion the Nordics business.
The Board had the opportunity Code of Conduct which is communicated internally in full in 14 to meet the extended management team of the business and languages and in summary format in 32 languages and is available conduct a detailed review of the businesses in each of the key Nordic toshareholders at www.
com markets, the differences between those markets and the competitive dynamic within them and their ability to leverage the resources and Directors liabilities and protections exchange best practices and innovation with the wider group.
Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the A summary of the activities carried out by the Board during the year Companys business dealings.
They face significant personal liability is shown on page 50 and Directors membership and attendance under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure atBoard and Committee meetings is shown below.
and Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including censure, fines and imprisonment.
The Company considers that it is Non-attendance at meetings by Directors was either as a result in its best interests to protect individuals who serve as Directors from of unavoidable changes in commitments, illness, or from ad hoc the consequences of innocent error or omission, since this enables meetings called by the Company which conflicted with existing the Company to continue to attract prudent, appropriately qualified arrangements.
The Chairman or Committee chairman seeks the individuals to act as Directors.
views of any Director unable to attend a meeting and provides abriefing on outcomes.
Directors are provided with material for The Company maintains at its expense a Directors and allmeetings, whether or not they are able to attend.
officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the Directors.
The policy does not provide cover where the Director or officer has acted fraudulently ordishonestly.
In addition the Company has granted indemnities in favour of Directors, as permitted by s. 232 to s. 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
In general terms, the indemnities protect Directors to the extent permissible by law from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings or otherwise disposed of without finding fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from liability.
The indemnity operates to the extent that the Director is not able to recover the relevant amounts under the Companys Directors and officers liability insurance.
Directors attendance and Committee membership Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee John McAdam 11 3 Chairman Andy Ransom 11 Jeremy Townsend 11 Peter Bamford 9 6 Acting Chairman Richard Burrows 11 9 Alan Giles 11 6 9 Chairman 3 # Peter Long 9 8 2 Angela Seymour-Jackson 11 9 Duncan Tatton-Brown 4 1 Chairman 1 Julie Southern 5 4 Chairman Total number of meetings 11 6 9 3 Peter Bamford acted as Chairman at the Audit Committee meeting on 28 April 2014 Duncan Tatton-Brown resigned on 14 May.
Peter Bamford acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2014 in the absence of the chair of the Committee # Peter Long resigned on 31 December 2014 Julie Southern was appointed to the Board on 21 July 2014 and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 50 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Formal reporting Key items discussed by the Board The Company publishes a half yearly unaudited interim statement In 2014, the Board considered: atthe end of July early August as well as audited financial statements which are announced in February and circulated to shareholders Safety, Health & Environment performance and governance in early April.
From the start of 2015, in accordance with the Operational and financial performance, including review of the changes implemented by the Financial Conduct Authority with effect annual operating plan from 7 November 2014, we will cease formal provision of interim Preparation of the Annual Report and accounts, and quarterly management statements on a quarterly basis.
We will however and half year financial results continue to provide simplified quarterly trading updates in May Investor relations activity and November and make regulatory news announcements when M&A activity including the disposal of Initial Facilities required to ensure that all required information is made available toshareholders on a timely basis.
Reviews of key risks to the business, including material disputes Governance arrangements and processes including conflicts The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced and ofinterest, Board evaluation, and Board governance structures understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects and processes in its external reporting.
The Board considers that the Annual Report and accounts for 2014, taken as a whole, is compliant with the Code Strategy for the group and its businesses requirement and provides the information necessary for shareholders Marketing and innovation to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Visit to Oslo to review the Nordics business Over 75% of shareholders obtained their primary information on the Colleague engagement and succession planning Company through electronic communications and the Companys Corporate responsibility website.
The Company strongly encourages shareholders to use electronic means for accessing shareholder communications, Accountability to shareholders saving resources and cost that would be involved in distributing Accountability to shareholders is a key consideration and the Board printed material.
Shareholders who elect to receive electronic is extremely conscious that it is a steward of the business and communications can revert to paper communications at a future time, that ultimately it manages the group on their behalf.
Accountability if they so wish.
The Company periodically canvasses shareholders on represents both clear and open reporting on current performance how they wish to receive their shareholder communications and did andplans for the future and taking into account the views expressed so in February 2014 and February 2015. by shareholders.
com contains information The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange on the Companys operations and the website Investor section and an ADR listing on the New York Stock Exchange to facilitate contains information on past results and publications, press releases shareholding by retail investors in the United States.
All ordinary and analyst presentation material.
It also contains information to shares carry the same rights and no shareholder enjoys any help shareholders manage their holdings such as change of address preferential rights, regardless of the size of their holding.
Further or change of name notifications, transfer of shares, lost share information on the rights attaching to shares can be found in the certificates, online and telephone share dealing facilities and how Directors Report on page 144. toreceive shareholder communications electronically.
The Company has been notified pursuant to DTR 5 of the following substantial interests in the Companys share capital.
Substantial interests in shares at 26 February 2015 No.
of Nature of % ordinary shares holding Schroders plc 14.93 272,214,223 Indirect Ameriprise Financial Inc. 10.06 183,351,215 Indirect Invesco Ltd 9.88 179,549,886 Direct Aviva plc and subsidiaries 5.64 102,915,768 Direct Majedie Asset Management Ltd 5.61 101,963,126 Indirect Artemis Investment Management LLP 5.37 97,646,833 Direct Ameriprise Financial Inc. includes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 51 Shareholder communications Annual general meeting The Board places great importance on communications with The AGM will be held at 12 noon on 13 May 2015 in the Ascot Suite shareholders and also recognises the contribution made by other at The London Gatwick Hilton Hotel, South Terminal, Crawley, providers of capital and is open to hearing the views of such providers West Sussex RH6 0LL.
A separate notice of meeting, containing in so far as they are relevant to the Companys overall approach to explanation of the items of special business has been sent to governance.
all shareholders and is available at www.
The Company encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM and to The following summarises the activities carried out by the Company participate in discussion of the matters at the meeting.
The Chief toensure that investors and other interested parties have a transparent Executive will present to shareholders on the Companys strategy and and effective dialogue with the Company.
performance and all Directors will be available to answer questions The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer make both formally at the meeting and informally over lunch.
Voting at the themselves available to shareholders at all appropriate times AGM will be conducted by a poll and the results announced to the market and displayed on the Companys website the day following Regular dialogue with institutional shareholders through one-to-one the AGM.
and group meetings, formal investor and analyst conference calls aswell as ad-hoc communications, where appropriate Formal presentations are held after full-year and half-year results, to which investors and sell and buy-side analysts are invited.
These presentations are web-cast and any investor is able to hear the presentation and related questions and answers via the Companys John McAdam website.
Slide presentations of results are hosted on the Companys Chairman website as are recordings of meetings 26 February 2015 Conference calls for investors and analysts are hosted after the first and third quarter trading updates, with typical levels of participation in excess of 80 shareholders and analysts Investor roadshows are conducted after full-year and interim results, involving extensive investor meetings on each occasion The Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Financial Controller and Treasurer, regularly meets with and hears the views ofrepresentatives of the debt capital markets The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Committee chairmen are available to attend meetings with investors, as required, and will typically do so on a number of occasions annually The Company provides opportunities for private client investor presentations across the UK The Board receives material issued by shareholder representative groups to ensure that the views and preferences of investors are taken into account The Company sees the AGM as an important opportunity for all shareholders to engage with the Board over performance and other matters on the agenda for the meeting and encourages both private and institutional shareholders to attend The Board is briefed on the Companys investor relations programme through a regular report from the Head of Investor Relations as well as by periodic updates from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer Additional information for investors can be found on pages 146 to 148.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
