52 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Audit Committee Report whose members are very engaged with the work required of them.
Julie Southern In his report last year Duncan commented on the organisations Chairman, improved control framework and it has been encouraging in my first Audit Committee five months to see this trend continue, with evidence of positive and transparent engagement between different parts of the business and the internal audit team.
In 2015 we will continue to focus on improving financial controls, in particular taking the lessons learned from divisional audits during the disposal of Initial Facilities and from the issues on a significant commercial contract in Belgium, and strengthening the review of business processes to support thedelivery of the business strategy.
Although the business has a mature risk management process we will strengthen it further for 2015 by the addition, where possible, of explicit targets to allow the business to better demonstrate Dear shareholder progress on the mitigation of the risks identified.
The Committee The Audit Committee has a clear set of responsibilities which are also plans to have regular attendance from regional financial laid down in its terms of reference and agreed by the Board.
These directors which will allow us to access a good local view and give terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the year and us a deeper insight into the financial talent in the wider business.
conform with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance As described in this report, we will continue to monitor the Code 2012 the Code and to the best practice standard laid down effectiveness of the internal audit assurance process but the by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA.
Committee has seen clear benefit from the more thematic and The Committee comprises only independent Directors and its targeted approach to internal audit assurance over the last two overriding purpose is to provide assurance to the Board that the years which has helped to ensure that internal audits forwardinterests of shareholders are appropriately protected, principally looking programme is fully aligned with the groups risk profile in theareas of financial reporting both internal and external and andits strategy.
over the effectiveness of the internal control environment and of the The Committee has considered the recommendations of the Code internaland external audit processes.
The role of the Committee is and related guidance in relation to tendering the external audit at set out in this report and the terms of reference are available at least every ten years.
As shareholders will be aware, KPMG LLP www.
com were appointed auditor to the group in 2009 following a competitive The Code requires that the Committee report on significant matters tender.
As reported last year, the lead audit partner appointed in considered during the year.
The Committee has therefore set out 2009 retired from the firm early in 2013 and the Company had a itsposition formally on the issues relating to the financial statements new lead audit partner with effect from the beginning of the 2013 where key judgements were taken.
Given that the Committee is comfortable with the effectiveness of the audit process and the Committees relationship restructuring costs: with KPMG LLP is good, the Committee does not see audit rethe annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired tendering as relevant to the Company at the present time.
intangible assets: and I continue to be satisfied that the Committee has been provided provisions for tax contingencies and UK deferred tax asset with good quality and timely material to allow proper consideration recognition.
to be given to the Committees responsibilities.
The Committee has In the Audit Report on pages 79 to 80 the auditor also provides met with the internal and external auditors without management acommentary on what they consider to be the significant matters present on a number of occasions and I have a regular dialogue of judgement taken in respect of the financial statements.
I am with the external audit partner, the Chief Financial Officer and the comfortable that all material issues of accounting judgement have Director of Risk and Internal Audit.
been fully discussed by the Committee and that there were no divergent views between management and the auditor that were not resolved.
Yours faithfully In addition to consideration of areas of accounting judgement we have set out on pages 53 to 54 a summary of all the activities of the Committee during the year divided between the Committees primary areas of focus: internal controls and risk, external audit andfinancial reporting.
Julie Southern I took on the role of chair of the Audit Committee in July 2014 from Chairman, Duncan Tatton-Brown who had stepped down after chairing the Audit Committee Committee since July 2003.
I am grateful to Duncan for leaving me 26 February 2015 with such a sound platform to build on and have been delighted to take on the chairmanship of such a well-functioning Committee Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 53 Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman, the Chief Role of the Committee Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the auditor, the Director of Risk The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring and Internal Audit and the Company Secretary.
Other Company of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The executives attend meetings periodically such as the Group Financial Committees focus is to review and challenge in these areas both with Controller and Treasurer, the Group Tax Director and the regional management and with internal and external auditors.
The Committees Finance heads who periodically update the Committee on control terms of reference include a responsibility on the Committee to advise andreporting within their areas of responsibility.
the Board on whether the content of the Annual Report taken as a whole represent a fair, balanced and understandable representation ofthe Companys performance, financial position and prospects.
Activities of the Committee in 2014 The Committee: The Committee met six times during the year and attendance atthose meetings is shown on page 49. monitors the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim management statements, including a review of the significant Key items discussed by the Audit Committee financial reporting judgements contained therein In 2014, the Committee considered: keeps under review the Companys internal financial controls and Internal controls and risk internal control and risk management systems The status of the control environment provides the Board with an independent assessment of the groups accounting affairs and financial position The outcome of internal audit investigations and status ofresolution of issues raised monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function Group risks and actions to enhance their measurement, monitoring and mitigation actions establishes and oversees the Companys relationship with the auditor, including setting their fees, monitoring their independence Review and enhancement of relevant policies and procedures and effectiveness and ensuring that the Companys policy relating to including the group authority schedule their engagement on non-audit matters is appropriate and observed Review of issues, including controls weaknesses arising from monitors matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing divisional audits and on a significant commercial contract arrangements inBelgium Review of issues, arising from divisional audits relating to the The Committee reports to the Board on its activities and minutes of disposal of Initial Facilities meetings and material considered by the Committee is shared with the Board.
Group reporting processes and the central control environment, including review of Group Risk Committee minutes The Board is required by the Code to present a fair, balanced and The conclusions and themes emerging from the internal audit understandable assessment of the Companys position and investigations conducted during the year and approved the prospects.
In relation to this requirement, reference is made to the plans for 2015 in parallel with the Boards strategic review Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual andoperating plan for the year Report and the financial statements set out on page 145.
External audit Terms of reference The terms and scope of the audit engagement for the annual, The terms of reference of the Committee are available at half-year and quarterly financial statements together with fees www.
The Committees terms of reference were charged reviewed by the Committee during 2014 and the Board approved anumber of amendments to the text to ensure that the terms of The effectiveness of the external audit process reference are fully aligned to current best practice.
They take full A review of the annual financial statements, consideration of account of the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
principal areas of accounting judgement or materiality, further details of which are provided in this report, including discussions Composition of the Committee with the auditor without executives present The members of the Committee are set out on page 49 in the Corporate Compliance with the Companys policy on the provision of nonGovernance Report.
Julie Southern is a Chartered Accountant with audit services by the auditor extensive financial and accounting experience.
Duncan Tatton-Brown, The audit strategy for the 2014 audit including the key areas who chaired the Committee until he stepped down in May 2014, is a offocus, materiality levels, scope and coverage Chartered Management Accountant with extensive financial and accounting experience.
Both Peter Bamford and Alan Giles have An analysis setting out the basis on which KPMG LLP continued extensive commercial and operational experience in overseeing the to meet the appropriate professional standards of independence financial affairs of substantial business undertakings.
Biographical as auditor to the Company information on all Committee members is set out on pages 40 to 41.
Committee members are all independent Non-executive Directors andboth Duncan Tatton-Brown and Julie Southern are considered bythe Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
TheCommittee did not find it necessary to seek external advice during the year, other than through its usual dialogue with the auditor.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 54 Corporate Governance Audit Committee continued The auditor reviews the centrally provided model and a sample Accounting, financial reporting of individual CGUs impairment testing, as well as evaluating the The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management procedures undertaken to identify indicators of impairment in the year.
framework and consideration of the statement to shareholders Although the total values of intangible assets are significant, on the control environment management has been able to demonstrate to the Committee that The annual, half-year and quarterly financial statements together there is material headroom in the major balances based on the with the significant financial reporting judgements relating to assumptions made.
each statement Provision for tax contingencies and UK deferred tax A review of material litigation and claims assetrecognition A review of and recommendation to the Board in relation to the The group holds a number of provisions for outstanding tax going concern analysis exposures which arise in the normal course of business.
The group operates across a wide range of tax jurisdictions, representing many Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee different approaches to the charging and collection of corporation tax.
After discussion with both management and the auditor, the Due to the complexity of the groups tax position there are a number Committee determined the key issues of accounting judgement of areas where significant judgement is exercised.
The group employs affecting the financial statements and therefore providing the potential local tax experts to support judgements where there is significant for material misstatement in the groups financial statements related uncertainty and the amounts involved are material.
In respect of to be: transfer pricing across tax jurisdictions the group has benchmarked its approach using international tax experts to ensure the risk of restructuring costs: breaching local tax authority requirements is mitigated.
In addition, the annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired the group has deferred tax assets that have been recognised in intangible assets: and respect of tax losses in the UK.
There is inherent uncertainty involved provisions for tax contingencies and UK deferred tax asset in both evaluating the accessibility of the tax losses and in estimating recognition.
the quantum of future UK taxable profits to utilise the assets.
Where the judgements are material to the group, the auditor uses its own These issues have been discussed and reviewed by the Committee specialists to assist in the review of the approaches taken and during the year but notably at the review of the interim results and assumptions made by management and ensure these result in atthe review and agreement of the audit plan for 2014. adequate provisions.
The Committee is satisfied that the assumptions Restructuring costs supporting the valuations are appropriate and that the assets are There has been a material reduction in the level of restructuring reasonably stated in the financial statements.
Approval of any restructuring costs requires a specific business case and authorisation from the Chief Financial Officer and Internal audit Chief Executive.
As a result of the reduced level of restructuring costs The group has an internal audit team led by the Director of Risk in 2014 and the anticipation that they will be at or below this level and Internal Audit.
Where justified by the need for local language or in2015, the Committee does not consider this to be a key issue technical expertise in particular markets, the team draws additional going forward.
resources from external practices, principally Deloitte LLP in 2014 this was for the audits of Turkey and Brazil only.
The Committee also Annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired has the benefit of the output from the controls testing carried out by intangible assets the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
The Director of Risk and Internal The group has 391.3m of acquired intangible assets at Audit reports to the Chief Financial Officer and has direct lines of 31December 2014.
Management is required to perform annual communication with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief tests for potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Executive and the Company Chairman, as well as to all operational The groups principal non-financial assets are grouped into cashand functional leaders in the business.
generating units CGUs for the purpose of assessing the recoverable amount usually a country business unit.
Where a CGU carries The Company has completed the changes to the structure of the goodwill above the local equivalent of 1m sterling, this must be internal audit function started in 2011 and the Committee remains tested for potential impairment using a centrally provided model.
For comfortable that the assurance process has been enhanced by the goodwill balances below the local equivalent of 1m sterling, CGUs changes made.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function will are only required to satisfy themselves that nothing has happened bekept under review.
since the previous review or since the goodwill balance was established that would indicate any impairment.
Cash flows are based on recent strategic plans as amended for any significant changes since preparation.
Discount rates used for cash flows must be the applicable rate from the internally published group discount rates, which are adjusted for local country risk.
CGUs are required to provide positive confirmation that they have performed impairment tests and, where applicable, that they are satisfied that noimpairment of goodwill is necessary.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 55 During the year, internal audit continued with the approach first Audit related and non-audit services adopted in 2012, to review a broad range of business processes To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor, the in depth at a relatively limited number of business locations.
The Company has a policy on the engagement of the auditors services audit plan approved by the Committee in December 2013 has been on audit related and non-audit services.
The Committee accepts that completed, with a number of additional investigations carried out at certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the auditor.
the Companys request during the year.
The common themes and The policy sets out the nature of services that are permitted and related recommendations arising from the 20 audits and investigations those that are specifically prohibited.
In general, permitted services completed or in progress, considered by the Committee covered: would be limited to matters that are closely related to the annual audit key financial controls, entertainment and expenses, state of service process or where a detailed knowledge of the group is advantageous.
performance monitoring, IT general controls and entity level controls, The auditor is permitted to be engaged on transaction services but pricing strategy, sales and customer account management, customer not to undertake any work which would itself be subject to audit.
The contract management, stock and warehousing, business continuity Committee reviews regularly the amount and nature of non-audit work management and compliance with treasury policy, health and safety performed by the auditor to ensure that the auditors independence policy and Code of Conduct compliance.
Any engagement on permitted services in excess of 50,000 requires the approval of the Chairman of the Audit In each area of focus recommendations for implementation of Committee and any engagement in excess of 250,000 requires the additional controls or improvements to the existing controls were approval of the Committee.
A copy of the policy is available at agreed with management and realistic time frames set for actions to be www.
Progress on the completion of agreed recommendations is reviewed by the Committee and it noted that the number of Fees for audit related and non-audit services incurred during the year overdue audit recommendations is at a historically low level.
amounted to 0.6m 2013: 0.5m, representing 27% of the audit fees.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit related services None of the failures identified by internal audit in the control and non-audit services can be found in Note A11 to the financial environment or any of the recommendations resulting from individual statements.
audits represented a systemic underlying issue and overall the work of the internal audit function is supportive of the Committees and Disclosure of information to the auditor theBoards view set out in Risks and uncertainties on page 36 The Committee monitors the process leading up to the preparation thatthe financial controls environment is working adequately.
of financial statements, including the arrangements the Company has in place for disclosing all relevant audit information to the auditor.
A formal confirmation on disclosure of information to the auditor is External audit provided in the Directors Report on page 145.
Audit services The auditor is appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion Effectiveness onthe financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared Under the Code the Committee is required to review and monitor by the Directors.
KPMG LLP has acted as the auditor to the group the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of throughout the year.
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional theauditor, agreeing the audit strategy and related work plan as well and regulatory requirements.
The 2013 audit was completed and all as approving their fees.
milestones reached including dealing with the additional complexity caused by the disposal of Initial Facilities.
There were no significant The auditor attends all meetings of the Committee and meets unexpected events relating to the publication of the year-end results.
with the Committee without executive management present.
The main engagement with the Committee in 2014 has been over the The Committee conducted a review of the auditors effectiveness review and publication of annual and periodic financial statements during the year, drawing input from the Chief Financial Officer, the and consideration of the changes required this year in reporting to Director of Risk and Internal Audit and other members of the senior shareholders on the Committees activities in relation to its review of finance management team as well as from the majority of the finance the financial statements, as provided in the Code.
The Committee directors of the groups subsidiaries.
The process made use of a considers that it has an effective working relationship with the external formal evaluation using a questionnaire which was completed by 39 audit team.
As reported below, the Committee has formally reviewed business units as well as by the central accounts, tax and treasury the effectiveness of the auditor and is satisfied with their performance.
The questionnaire covered: resources and expertise of the external audit team effectiveness of the audit process effectiveness of the financial controls testing process The Committee considered the detailed findings of the review which included a number of detailed recommendations, none of which was material in the overall context of the group audit but washelpful in relation to improvements in the Companys processes and those of the auditor.
Taking all responses into account, the scoring mechanism which was the same as in the previous year, demonstrated that the audit performance was effective and at a similar level to the previous year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 56 Corporate Governance Audit Committee continued Auditor independence and objectivity an annual report on the overall status of the control environment in In concluding that KPMG LLP should be proposed for re-appointment the group including the results of testing and reports on identified as auditor at the 2015 AGM, the Board and the Audit Committee areas of weakness in controls took into account the need to ensure that auditor independence was action plans on control environment improvements and updates safeguarded.
The Audit Committee also took into account the review ontheir implementation undertaken of the effectiveness of the audit process as well as input updates on control breakdowns and planned actions to prevent from Executive management.
arecurrence The Company considers that there are sufficient controls and periodic reports from divisional and functional finance executives, processes in place to ensure that the required level of independence and internal audit is maintained.
The Board does not consider that there is any material The Group Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer risk of the Companys auditor withdrawing from the market.
includes senior functional executives with day-to-day responsibility Auditor re-tendering for the internal control environment covering financial, HR and IT Following a tender process in 2009, KPMG LLP replaced systems, legal and regulatory compliance as well as the Director  LLP as the groups auditor.
The Code of Risk and Internal Audit and a representative of operational states that FTSE 350 companies should tender the provision of audit management.
The Group Risk Committee supports the Audit services at least every ten years or explain their approach, if different.
Committee and Executive management by: A resolution concerning KPMG LLPs proposed re-appointment as providing oversight of the framework for managing risk throughout auditor and setting of its fees will be proposed at the AGM of the the group Company to be held on 13 May 2015. providing oversight of the processes for reviewing the effectiveness Groups approach to risk management and of the group risk management framework and internal control internal control systems The groups approach to managing risk and ensuring that an effective assisting the Committee and the Board assess the risks the group internal control environment is maintained is described below and the is prepared to take Boards statement on internal control and risk is set out in the section monitoring emerging risks immediately following.
determining internal responsibility for appropriate mitigating The identification and management of risk is fully integrated into strategies the development of the groups strategy and into the day-to-day Specific programmes are used to support implementation of operational execution of the strategy by the regions and business the Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws and units.
Ensuring that risks are identified and managed effectively is regulations.
In some cases dedicated specialists ensure that apart of every managers and supervisors job through leadership standards are set and complied with, for example in health and ofthe teams for which they are responsible.
safety, IT security, pensions and tax.
More broadly, e-learning training The Board has overall responsibility for the groups risk management including on the U learning management platform is used to ensure approach, which includes: that expected standards of behaviour are widely disseminated and adopted across the group, for example to ensure understanding of review and approval of the groups overall strategy, including overall the Code of Conduct and compliance with competition law and antirisk appetite.
This includes reviewing the risks that may prevent the corruption anti-bribery legislation.
group from achieving its objectives and ensuring that these risks are mitigated or managed to an acceptable level Independent re-assurance of the effectiveness of risk management regular reviews of business performance including updates of the and internal controls across the group is provided to the Chief risks that the business is facing, and challenging management to Executive and the Board by Group internal audit.
obtain assurance that these risks are being effectively managed The Board delegates day-to-day management of the Company to the review of managements approach to identifying and managing Chief Executive who, together with his Executive Leadership Team, risk including approval of the group key risks schedule and is responsible for day-to-day identification and management of risk, recommending enhancements which includes: evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including setting targets and objectives for their respective teams in line with financial, operational and compliance controls the agreed group strategic direction evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit monitoring of business performance through monthly and quarterly delegation of authority to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial meetings with regional and functional leadership Officer to make commitments on behalf of the Company compilation and regular review of the group risk register and the Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit status of mitigation actions Committee, the full remit of which is described above.
ensuring that operating units maintain sound systems of internal control and appropriate assurance mechanisms including controls The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Chief Financial relating to the preparation of financial statements, health and safety, Officer and the Director of Risk and Internal Audit on financial controls and employment matters and process improvement programmes.
These include: Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 57 delegating authorities to ensure that decisions are made at the most The Code communications for frontline colleagues includes specific appropriate level in the organisation taking into account the level of material, tailored to each business category, flagging the key Dos risk involved financial and non-financial and Donts of responsible business conduct that are embedded in the groups Code of Conduct.
The Board will continue to keep demonstrating behaviours in line with and promulgating the Code policies supporting Code of Conduct compliance under regular ofConduct, a copy of which is available at www.
com reviewto ensure that they are appropriate and effective.
Board statement on the effectiveness of risk Whistleblowing Speak-up management and internal control There are policies and procedures in place for the reporting by The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining sound systems colleagues of suspected wrongdoing, for these suspicions to be of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their formally investigated, and for the results of the investigation to be effectiveness.
The systems of internal control and risk management reported to the whistleblower.
The Committee receives a report on have been developed to ensure compliance with the Code on internal control incidents arising from whistleblowing as well as from other control and risk management.
The Committee also reviews periodically processes which The system of risk management and internal control described in the the Company has in place to ensure that in all territories there is preceding section is designed to manage and mitigate risk rather than an effective communication process through which colleagues are eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing kept informed about the whistleblowing process.
Global Freephone business objectives, internal controls and risk management can only numbers and a dedicated email address have been established.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material In addition to workplace material for colleagues, multiple language misstatement or loss.
information on the Speak-up programme is prominently displayed onthe group and individual business unit intranet sites.
Risks are considered in the context of long-term strategic and emerging threats: medium-term challenges associated with business Committee effectiveness change programmes: short-term risks triggered by changes in the The Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness using the external and regulatory environment: short-term risks in relation to services of Lintstock, an independent external corporate governance internal operations and control.
The review concluded that the Committee was The Board gains confidence over the effectiveness of control performing effectively and had received sufficient, reliable and timely processes through regular and transparent management reporting, information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
the governance processes and from the external and internal assurance processes.
The Board reviews the strategic risks facing thegroup and mitigating actions as part of its annual review of strategy and operational risks.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in meeting its obligations Julie Southern for maintaining sound systems of risk management and internal Chairman, control and a summary of the Committees activities in 2014 is Audit Committee provided earlier in this report.
The Board has conducted a review of 26 February 2015 the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 31December 2014 and confirms that: the group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating andmanaging the significant risks faced by the group this process has been in place for the year under review and up tothe date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts the process is regularly reviewed by the Board the process accords with the Code Code of Conduct Updated, mandatory online training was issued on the groups Code of Conduct, and on other compliance areas including competition law, anti-bribery and corruption and securing information and protecting privacy.
Enhanced monitoring and recording of training completions is achievable using the U platform.
Over 58% of colleagues invited to partake have participated in these online training modules.
The Code of Conduct is distributed in full in 14 languages and in summary format in 32 languages covering all of the groups material operations and a communications programme and material for workplace briefing to support reinforcement of Code of Conduct compliance is embedded in the business units.
The effectiveness of the communications programme is reviewed by group internal audit.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
