Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 53 Audit Committee report This report sets out the work carried out by the Audit The Audit Committee also reviews the arrangements whereby Committee Committee of the Board with reference to staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters, to ensure there are proportionate and independent associated best practice guidance issue by the Financial procedures in place for such an occurrence.
The Board as a whole reviews the risks facing the Group, Audit Committee composition and the processes put in place to mitigate those risks, on a The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and regular and formal basis.
The Board also reviews the work comprises independent non-executive Directors of the carried out by the Internal Audit function.
The Committee is chaired by Simon Cloke, who has significant financial experience gained as a Managing Audit Committee frequency Director within HSBC Banks Corporate Sector Group.
On the The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year.
Two formal 1 March 2014 Sally Cowdry became a member of the Audit meetings of the Committee were held during 2014 to review Committee shortly after her appointment to the Board.
Tony and discuss the 2013 year end audit and the findings from Hughes is also a member of the Committee.
The Code the external auditor on the 2014 interim review.
On one recommends that audit committees be comprised of at least occasion, a conflicting appointment prevented full attendance three independent non-executive directors for companies of the Committee.
The Chairman and other members of the with a premium listing, such as The Restaurant Group plc.
Committee also meet with the Chief Financial Officer and the Following Sally Cowdrys appointment, the Audit Committee external auditor, as required, to discuss matters pertinent to has comprised of three independent non-executive directors.
This included a meeting to discuss the external audit plan, including significant risk The Board continues to review the composition of the Audit assessment, developments in corporate governance and Committee to ensure that it remains proportionate to the task audit fees.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also meets, and provides sufficient scrutiny of risk management and as required, with the Group Internal Audit function to review internal and external controls.
The Audit Committee regularly invites the external auditor, Audit Committee process the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined the Chief Financial Officer to its meetings.
Discussions are in its terms of reference, through Audit Committee meetings held in private when appropriate.
during the year, at which detailed reports are presented for review.
From time to time, the Committee commissions Responsibilities of the Audit Committee reports from external advisers or Company management, The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its either after consideration of the Companys major risks or terms of reference and the principal matters are to: in response to developing issues.
The Committee has the opportunity to meet privately with the external auditor at provide additional assurance regarding the integrity, quality least twice a year and liaises with Company management and reliability of financial information used by the Board and in considering areas for review.
in financial statements issued to shareholders and the public: During the year, the Committee considered the review the Companys internal procedures for control and following matters: compliance with regard to financial reporting to satisfy itself that these are adequate and effective: interim and full year financial results.
As part of this review the Committee received reports from the external auditor review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts and their preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure review of the Interim Report: they comply with statutory requirements and generally the external auditors interim and full year reports: accepted accounting principles: the scope and cost of the external audit: receive reports from the Groups external auditor concerning external announcements, in particular the non-audit work carried out by the external auditor in Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report: accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence: develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the external audit process, review the independence of the the effectiveness of the external audit process and external auditor, review the provision of non-audit services consideration of the reappointment of the external auditor: provided by the external auditor and review and approve the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and the remuneration of the external auditor: and practices.
Specific accounting policy issues which were consider any other matter that is brought to its attention considered include the Groups policies in relation to the recognition and timing of commercial discounts received, by the Board or the external auditor.
the impairment of tangible fixed assets and the classification of leases.
54 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Audit Committee report continued Commercial discounts received this is an area the Board the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the has also focussed closely on due to recent high profile external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval cases in the broader food and retail sector.
The report from of the provision of non-audit services by the external the external auditor has covered this topic in detail and the auditor: and Committee also considered the strength of management the past service of the auditor who was first appointed by controls in this area.
Impairment of tangible fixed assets tangible fixed assets are the most quantitatively significant item on the balance To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, sheet, with a net book value at 28 December 2014 of the Committee takes into account: 368.6 million.
The Committee has reviewed the paper that the arrangements for ensuring the independence and management prepare setting out their approach and objectivity of the external auditor: challenged the key judgements made relating to impairment the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: as well as reviewing this topic in discussion with the external the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their auditor.
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and Lease classification the Group has over 400 leases and therefore their classification as either finance or operating the auditors conclusions with regard to existing management and control processes.
leases is critical to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee notes that typically the Group takes leases of The External Audit and Audit Tendering 25 years or less and it considered managements approach to assessing the appropriate classification of leases as part Under transition rules set out in the Competition & Markets Authority CMA final order in response to recent EU of the report it received from the external auditor.
regulations, the Group has to mandatorily tender the audit every 10 years.
Deloitte LLP was first appointed as external For further information on the judgements and estimates reviewed in relation to the impairment of tangible fixed assets, auditor, following a tender process, for the year ended 30 December 2007. see section a of the Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty in the Accounting The Committee expects to tender the external audit no later policies for the consolidated accounts.
than is necessary to comply with the new regulations.
The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by the Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
The Committee undertakes a review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process each year.
When Independence of the external auditor considering the suitability of the external auditor, the Committee takes account of the findings set out in the Public The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work which is in compliance Report on the most recent inspections of Deloitte carried out by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review with the Code.
The pre-approved services may be summarised as follows: team and their reports on all other auditors in its sample.
When considering suitable external auditors the Committee audit related services, including work related to the annual also takes account of the ability of the auditor to add value Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and through observations from the audit process and interactions local statutory accounts: and of the auditor with the Companys management.
certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and tax advice.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee Other work to be carried out by the external auditor is subject has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms to review by the Audit Committee.
To fulfil its responsibility of reference.
The Committee has reviewed the independence regarding the independence of the external auditor, the and objectivity of Deloitte LLP as external auditor and Committee takes into account the following: recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the 14 May 2015. role of the senior statutory audit partner who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has On behalf of the Audit Committee, not held office for more than five years: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: Simon Cloke a report from the external auditor describing their Chairman of the Audit Committee arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts 27 February 2015 of interest:
