50 LEADERSHIP HOW THE BOARD OPERATES DEFENCE COMMITTEE The board brings leadership to the Group.
It does this through the The board established a defence committee in December 2014 development, monitoring and review of the Groups strategy, guided to manage discussions with Ball Corporation relating to a possible by the executive directors to whom the board delegates the operational combination of the two businesses.
The defence committee comprised management of the business.
It ensures that risks are effectively Stuart Chambers committee chairman, Johanna Waterous senior managed through robust policies and procedures, supported by the independent director, Graham Chipchase, David Robbie and David right values and culture.
The boards primary focus is the sustainable Gibson.
The defence committee reported their discussions and actions to long term success of the Group to deliver value for shareholders, taking the board for full debate and consideration.
The board has recommended into account other stakeholders.
The board does not routinely involve to Rexam shareholders that the terms of the offer received from Ball itself in day to day business decisions but there is a formal schedule of Corporation for the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share , aswellasthosewhich capital of Rexam be accepted.
can be delegated to committees of the board or senior management.
The board retains responsibility for all such delegated matters.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate with each The fundamental matters reserved to the board are: .
Nonetheless, theymaintaina board appointments and removals close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the boards decision the Groups strategy making process and the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
acquisition and disposal of businesses Stuart Chambers is the chairman of the Company.
The chairman , marketablesecurities, creates and manages a constructive dialogue between the executive borrowing facilities, guarantees or indemnities and changes in and non executive directors.
He works with the company secretary to accounting policies or practice ensure that appropriate matters are discussed during board meetings.
all capital expenditure projects over 20m or any capital expenditure Graham Chipchase is the chief executive of the Company.
He has project which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups responsibility for leading the executive directors and the senior executive financialcriteria team in the day to day management and ensures effective implementation  of board decisions.
The key responsibilities of both the chairman and changes to the Groups management and control structures the chief executive are more fully described on page 51. matters relating to the Companys share listing  the appointment and removal of principal advisors and external auditors.
executive are approved by the nomination committee.
The board considers all matters in an open and transparent environment whereby all directors have unrestricted access to information and NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS management.
The board works as a team but independence of thought and At the date of this annual report, Rexam has a non executive chairman approach as well as constructive debate are encouraged.
This collective ,  vision of the Companys purpose, its values, culture and the behaviours director, all of whom are considered to be independent.
Their collective the board promotes, form the foundation of strong corporate governance.
role is to understand the business and its markets, consider proposals on strategy and constructively challenge management.
The non executive BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 2014 directors hold or have held senior positions in industry and commerce, 1 and contribute a wide range of international experience and objective Attendance perspective to the board.
Through the board committees, the non executive Stuart Chambers chairman 7 7 directors bring focus and independence on governance and succession Graham Chipchase 7 7 planning, internal controls, risk management and remuneration policies.
2 Carl-Peter Forster 5 5 Johanna Waterous is the senior independent director and, if required, John Langston 7 7 will deputise for the chairman.
She is available to talk to shareholders Leo Oosterveer 7 7 if they have any issues or concerns or if there are any unresolved matters Ros Rivaz 7 7 that shareholders believe should be brought to her attention.
3 David Robbie 3 7 The chairman schedules meetings with the non executive directors in 4 Jean-Pierre Rodier 2 2 addition to the planned board and committee meetings to discuss, on Johanna Waterous 7 7 a less formal basis, the Groups performance, governance, strategy and board succession plans.
The executive directors are not in attendance David Gibson company secretary 7 7 at these meetings.
1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the director could have attended.
Non executive directors serve the Company under contracts for services 2 Appointed to the board on 10 June 2014. which are generally for an initial three year term.
On appointment, an 3 David Robbie was unable to attend 4 board meetings during the year owing  to personal family circumstances in February 2014 and a period of medical  treatment between May and July 2014.
He received copies of board papers for .
each meeting and was able to comment on the matters to be discussed in advance of the meetings.
For the majority of the time he continued to work remotely.
4 Retired from the board on 2 May 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 51 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Company operates through the board and its main board committees, namely the audit and risk, the nomination and the remuneration committees.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that each of the committees has a different non executive director as their chairman.
The board committees are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters delegated to each committee and for which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the board committees can be found on the Rexam website.
Shareholders The chairman key responsibilities Leads the board.
Ensures compliance with Group policies concerning the conduct of the business.
Promotes a culture of openness, challenge and debate.
Provides guidance to the executive directors and Monitors progress towards the timely and effective senior management.
implementation and achievement of the objectives, policies and strategies set by the board.
Reviews and agrees directors training and development needs.
Ensures that the board has the appropriate balance of skills, Safeguards the interests of shareholders.
experience and diversity, and gives consideration to Ensures that the board sets clear expectations concerning succession planning.
the Groups culture, values and behaviours.
Reviews the effectiveness of the board, its committees, and individual directors.
The board key responsibilities Overall direction of the Groups strategy and the long term success of the Groups business.
For the boards discussions during 2014 see page 52.
Audit and Nomination Remuneration Chief executive risk committee committee committee key responsibilities Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: shareholder value to monitor the integrity to ensure the board to determine the develops and manages and the effectiveness is effective and policy on executive the Group and its trading oftheGroupsfinancial comprises individuals remuneration, performance within the and business reporting, with a diverse balance the remuneration authorities delegated the performance of the of skills, knowledge arrangements for the by the board internal and external and experience, and to directors and senior develops and delivers the audit functions, internal develop succession plans management and policy Groups strategic plan control policies and the for the refreshment of the for the Groups annual as agreed by the board Groups procedures for board.
For further details and long term incentives.
ensures the timely and identification, assessment see pages 53 to 56.
For further details see effective implementation and reporting of risk.
For pages 65 to 83. of the objectives, policies further details see pages and strategies set by 57 to 62. the board leads executive management team Executive leadership team ELT key responsibilities and ensures that management has the The ELT comprises 10 Graham David Gibson Oliver Graham appropriate balance members being the Groups Chipchase Legal Marketing of skills and experience most senior business and Chief executive Communications Innovation ensures management functional executives.
succession plans and Rich Grimley Craig Jones Claude Marbach management development Key objectives: to focus on Group Operations Beverage Can Africa, Beverage Can plans are in place taking the implementation of the from 1 January 2015 Middle East & Asia North America  Groupsstrategy, financial Beverage Can from 1 January of diversity structure and planning, North America until 2015 organisational development oversees the Groups 31 December 2014 and policies and to review performance in safety,  health and environmental Carlos Medeiros Iain Percival David Robbie competitive performance.
matters Beverage Can Beverage Can Finance director South America Europe is the primary interface with shareholders Nikki Rolfe promotes high standards Human resources of ethical business conduct.
52 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED BOARD DISCUSSIONS 2014 TO ACHIEVE OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Strategy Risk and governance External environment discussed the strategy for each considered the reports on matters received and discussed business sector with a focus on discussed at audit and risk committee presentation on aluminium emerging markets meetings  reviewed the legal compliance approved the disposal of the considered reports on the Healthcare business to support the arrangements, Code of Conduct and benchmarking of aluminium anti bribery and corruption policies strategic focus on beverage cans for supply and costs presented by the Group and business discussed and agreed to acquire a discussed and assessed the key sectors controlling interest in United Arab Can issues affecting the business and Manufacturing Limited, Saudi Arabia, discussed the Group risk management industry trends and a joint venture acquisition of process, risk tracking and mitigation received reports following Envases Del Istmo SA Panama reviewed the Group and business presentations to the audit and risk approved the capital expenditure for a procedures and controls.
committee resulting from new beverage can line in Chile and line participation in the UK conversions in Brazil, India and Turkey governments cyber security healthcheck approved the capital expenditure for Delivering our strategy the conversion from steel to aluminium discussed the developing of the beverage can plants in Spain macroeconomic environment Strengthen our customer relationships in regions of operation.
approved the build of a new beverage Invest to capture growth can plant in India to meet the growth Pursue continuous improvement in demands in that region operational excellence approved investment in extending the capacity of the Fusion aluminium Shape our future bottle production in the Czech Republic Build a winning organisation.
considered research, development and innovation in relation to the strategic Other business agenda to create and maximise value.
Considered and recommended Ball Corporations offer for the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Rexam Stakeholder engagement People, culture and values engaged with private shareholders held board meeting with the Beverage at the AGM Can Europe leadership team and visited the plant in La Selva, Spain Budget and performance considered annual investor audit approved the Groups budget for 2015 and feedback reviewed key management hires as and the strategic plan to 2017 part of organisation restructuring reviewed Rexams sustainability discussed plans and approved the return of arrangements and programmes reviewed health and safety cash to shareholders following completion incorporating all aspects of arrangements to ensure of the sale of the Healthcare business corporate social responsibility the safety of our employees and customers  engaged with institutional of the Group and its performance against shareholders and investor bodies approved the appointment of a new budget, forecast and market expectations independent non executive director received reports on meetings with approved the Groups full year and customers and suppliers.
considered reports on matters half year results and dividend policy discussed at nomination committee and remuneration committee meetings reviewed the performance of business segments focused on the effectiveness of the board during 2014 following feedback reviewed the Groups long term debt from the board evaluation process.
