STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: STRENGTHEN CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS In todays business climate, our customers are not simply 90 labels looking at supply chain savings to help drive their growth.
Label changes They also want a global partner who can offer a framework in South America Events such as the Olympics or for collaboration: a packaging expert who speaks their the soccer World Cup invariably language.
This is what can help them stay ahead in their lead to an increase in can volumes as brands seek to capitalise on markets, and enables us to maintain our competitive edge.
the global nature of these events.
The 2014 FIFA World Cup was no exception.
Even before the World Cup games started, the Brazilian Association of Manufacturers of GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP INNOVATIVE SPACE TO Recyclable Cans Abralatas noted Rexam Editions variable printing technology THINK AND SHARE IDEAS a considerable increase in volumes.
patents pending was born in Brazil thanks In September we opened a new Graphics and Rexam alone in South America to the ingenuity of one of our engineers.
And Design studio at our European head office in produced 90 different labels.
thanks to our global network we have been Luton, UK.
The state of the art facility provides able to lead the industry, deploying this customers with design expertise, platemaking innovative technology with our customers and proofing.
across the world see below.
The 2014 The facility showcases Rexams technical Editions launch for one of our largest soft capabilities across all main European can drinks customers in North America helped sizes including the Fusion bottle and increase their sales volumes after years of also incorporates a suite where customers secular decline.
marketing teams can come and brainstorm ideas and translate concepts onto a three EXPERT KNOWLEDGE dimensional metal can.
Customers can arrive We apply our experience and knowledge not with an idea in the morning: we will then just to can making but also to our customers create the artwork and make the can.
For example, our functionality testing end of the day the idea has become a reality such as a cans pouring characteristics, our and any adjustments can be made there and advanced work on analysing visual impact then on site.
More than 50 customers visited cues, understanding our customers brand the new facility after its inauguration.
proposition and supporting their readiness to launch a product, all help to build broader and deeper partnerships.
A few of the cans we produced for our customers to mark the FIFA World Cup 2014.
Our customers can now take advantage of our TM Rexam Editions technology all over the world.
TM These cans using Editions Super Premium technology were produced for a Czech brand to celebrate the FIFA World Cup.
