48 THE BOARD Non executive director Executive director Executive director Non executive director Senior independent Ros Rivaz 59 Graham Chipchase 52 David Robbie 51 Leo Oosterveer 55 director Appointed 12 June 2013.
Chief executive Finance director Appointed 1 September Johanna Waterous CBE Appointed 1 January Appointed 3 October 2011.
57 Appointed 4 May Committees 2010 as chief executive.
2012 as a non executive Nomination, Joined the board as Committees director and senior remuneration chair.
financedirectoron Skills and business Audit and risk, independent director.
Skills and business was Group director plastic Strongfinancial, Committees experience packaging from 2005. accounting, strategic Skills and business Audit and risk, Experience in technology, andcorporatefinance experience nomination, sustainability and IT Skills and business experience and skills.
systems, and expertise experience Previous appointments with global management    experience and a track Skills and business manufacturing processes and operational knowledge, officerofRoyalP&O record in marketing, sales experience and procurement in proven leadership skills and NedlloydNVandfinance and strategy development A leading expert in retail global organisations.
a detailed understanding director of CMG plc.
gained both in Europe and customer relationship Previous appointments of Rexams businesses Previously a non executive and Asia.
Previous management with wide includechiefofficer and markets.
Previous director of the BBC.
appointments include knowledge of the global for Smith & Nephew plc appointments include leadership of the global retail world.
Johanna was until 2014 and senior financedirectorofGKN Other directorships food service division of awarded a CBE in 2013 for management positions plcs aerospace services Trustee of Aldeburgh Unilever PLC until 2014 her services to supporting in ExxonMobil, ICI, business and various Music and the St Johns and chairman chief business growth.
A former Tate & Lyle and Diageo.
positions within the Smith Square Charitable executive of Unilever in director of McKinsey, the European and US Trust.
Thailand and Indochina global management Other directorships subsidiaries of BOC from 2002 to 2006. consultingfirm.
Deputy Chair of the Group plc.
Operational Council of the University experience as Group Other directorships Other directorships of Southampton and a director of Rexams plastic Chairman of Mylaps BV.
Non executive director of member of the Council packaging business.
RSA Insurance Group plc, since 2006.
Wm Morrison Other directorships Supermarkets PLC, Non executive director chairman of Sandpiper CI of AstraZeneca PLC.
Limited, and a director of the RBG Kew Foundation.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49 Chairman Non executive director Non executive director Company secretary Board experience Stuart Chambers 58 John Langston 65 Carl-Peter Forster 60 David Gibson 52 Manufacturing Appointed 1 February Appointed 30 October Appointed 10 June 2014.
100% director and chairman Committees Consumer Changes to the board on 23 February 2012.
Audit and risk chairman, 48% Committees nomination, remuneration.
Skills and business Finance Jean-Pierre Rodier Nomination chairman.
experience retired as a non executive 38% Skills and business Considerable operational director of the Company Skills and business experience and manufacturing Marketing on 2 May 2014. experience A chartered accountant expertise and the 38% Extensive breadth of business with international, knowledge and The appointment of experience, including commercial and corporate experience gained Board diversity Carl-Peter Forster as a experience of global business financeexperience.
as a leader in global non executive director is International to business markets.
Carl-Peter disclosed in this section.
appointments include group include a director of TI is the former Chief There were no other chief executive of NSG Group plc prior to its Executive of Tata Motors, Women on changes to the board Group, the Tokyo based acquisition by Smiths part of the global Tata the board during 2014 and up global glass company, until Group and operational Group, and previous to until the date of this 2009, and chief executive roles on the board of that he was Group VP 25% annual report.
of Pilkington PLC until its Smiths Group plc, and and Regional President Board balance acquisition by NSG Group  of GM Europe.
Also held senior 2006 until his retirement spent 13 years in various positions at Mars Inc and a in May 2010. senior management roles 25% variety of European roles at BMW AG.
Non executive at Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Other directorships Non executive director Other directorships 75% Other directorships of Inchcape plc.
Non executive director Board tenure Chairman of ARM Holdings of IMI plc.
Chairman of 02 years plc from 1 March 2014 London Taxi Company non executive director and and a board member 24% chairman designate from 27 of Hong Kong listed 24 years January 2014.
Non executive Geely Automotive director of Tesco PLC.
38% 412 years 38% Figures above as at the date of this report.
