STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS Corporate governance Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate governance to comply with the The board regulatory obligations associated with its three principal stock exchange Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors.
The listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
directors are responsible for the success of the Group and, through the independent oversight of management, are accountable to shareholders for Statement of compliance with governance codes and the performance of the business.
standards in 2014 In compiling this report, the directors have referred to the September 2012 Role and responsibilities  theCode, theASXCorporate The principal role of the board is to set the Groups strategy and to review Governance Councils Corporate Governance Principles and regularly its strategic direction.
In doing this, the board also has responsibility Recommendations 2nd edition with 2010 amendments the ASX Principles, for corporate governance.
and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Standards A formal schedule of matters reserved by the board has been established by the NYSE Standards.
This covers areas such as the Groups strategy, major Throughout 2014, and at the date of this report, the Group applied the investments, acquisitions and divestments and oversight of risk.
It is available principles of, and was compliant with the provisions of, the ASX Principles and on the website.
Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the chief executive and the Executive Committee.
In turn, authorities are also NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any significant ways in delegated to individual members of the Executive Committee.
which its practices of corporate governance differ from the NYSE Standards.
As part of the annual financial planning process, the board sets annual The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that its practices performance targets, which include personal and business performance are broadly consistent with them, with the following exceptions where the measures, under the Groups short-term incentive plan detailed on page 76 strict requirements of the NYSE Standards are not met.
These performance targets are determined by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the board.
The chief executive The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate establishes targets for the Executive Committee.
Those objectives are governance committee composed entirely of independent directors which, in cascaded throughout management teams.
addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance Further details of the performance evaluation of the executive directors and principles applicable to the company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations Committee, other senior executives are discussed in the Implementation Report section of information about which is set out on page 59.
This committee does not the Remuneration Report on page 75. develop corporate governance principles for the boards approval.
The board Board balance and independence itself performs this task.
Board composition Under US securities law and the NYSE Standards, the company is required to The names, skills and experience of each director together with their terms in have an audit committee that is directly responsible for the appointment, office are shown in the biographical details on pages 49 to 51.
Details of compensation, retention and oversight of the work of external auditors.
While changes to the board during 2014 and in the year to date are set out in the the Rio Tinto Audit Committee makes recommendations to the board on these Directors report on page 46. matters, the ultimate responsibility for the appointment of the external auditors rests with the shareholders.
Director independence The tests of independence of a non-executive director vary between the A discussion of the Groups position on audit tenders is set out on page 58 of jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings.
The Nominations Committee has this report.
adopted a formal policy for the determination of the independence of the Further information about the corporate governance framework is available in non-executive directors.
the Corporate governance section of Rio Tintos website.
Among the key criteria of the independence policy are independence from management and the absence of any business relationship which could materially interfere with the directors independence of judgment and ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards deliberations, or which could interfere with the directors ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company in which a director has declared an interest, these are reviewed for materiality both to the Group, and the other party to the contract.
Material is defined in the policy as being where the relationship accounts for more than two per cent of either partys consolidated gross revenue per annum, although the test also takes other circumstances into account.
The Code includes criteria to assess independence where a director has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
The chairman was considered independent upon his appointment under the Code, and in the boards view he continues to satisfy the tests for independence under the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
Applying the criteria of the independence policy, the board is satisfied that all of its non-executive directors are and remain independent.
Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick are not standing for re-election in 2015. riotinto.
com 53 Corporate governance continued Richard Goodmanson, who has been a non-executive director since 2004, has The chairman and non-executive directors meet, typically at the start of each agreed to stand for re-election to the board at the annual general meetings in board meeting, without the executive directors present, to create an 2015.
The board believes that Richard makes an outstanding contribution to opportunity for non-executive directors to raise any issues in private session.
the board, and particularly as chairman of the Sustainability Committee.
In addition, the directors are in regular informal communication with members Richard provides continuity to the board, given his significant knowledge of the of the Executive Committee and other members of senior management.
This business and the board has confirmed that he continues to satisfy the tests for helps to foster an open and regular exchange of knowledge and experience.
independence in carrying out his role.
All new non-executive directors undertake a full, formal and tailored induction Executive directors other directorships on joining the board.
The board is provided with training and development Executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other opportunities during the year.
The directors are also encouraged to participate companies.
The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the board, operates a in site visits to the Groups operations around the world and to meet with procedure under which approval may be given to accept such invitations, employees and, from time to time, shareholders and other key stakeholders.
In recognising the benefit to be derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from 2014, the board visited our coal mining operations in the Hunter Valley, such appointments.
Details of the chief executives external appointments are Australia.
These events are arranged by the Rio Tinto company secretary on set out on page 49. behalf of the chairman, and seek to ensure directors have appropriate knowledge of the company and access to its operations and staff.
Election and re-election The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during the Progress against our priorities year.
Directors appointed in this way will be subject to election by shareholders The progress made towards achieving the priorities set by the board during at the first annual general meetings after their appointment.
In subsequent 2014 are set out on pages 9 and 10. years, the directors are expected to submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meetings each year.
Annual performance evaluation An annual exercise is undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the board, Non-executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six years and board committees and individual directors.
would not normally serve more than nine years.
For 2014, the board and committee audit, nominations, remuneration On 29 May 2014, Rio Tinto announced the appointment of Michael LEstrange and sustainability evaluation process was conducted by the Rio Tinto as an independent non-executive director effective 1 September 2014.
20 November 2014 Rio Tinto announced the appointment of Dr Megan Clark as an independent non-executive director effective immediately.
Both will offer The process involved agreeing with the chairman, board and committee themselves for election at the annual general meetings in 2015 and further chairmen a series of questions for discussion and interviews with directors details about them are set out in the notices of annual general meetings.
seeking their views with regard to progress on the actions arising from the 2013 evaluation and generally upon the performance of the board and its Governance processes committees in 2014.
In 2014, there were nine scheduled board meetings.
Details of the directors The findings from the evaluation reports for the board and its committees and attendance at all of the board and committee meetings held in 2014 are set recommended actions were discussed with the chairman and the chairmen of out on the following page.
the committees ahead of a full review at the February 2015 meetings of the The board has regular discussions with senior management on the Groups board and its committees.
These discussions typically include presentations given by senior The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, were management during the year.
The board attends an annual two-day strategy responsible for the performance evaluation of the chairman.
Non-executive meeting with the Executive Committee, which includes broader, detailed directors met to give their views and the senior independent director also review sessions on the Groups strategic direction.
The outputs from this event sought the views of the executive directors.
The senior independent director help underpin the boards annual financial planning exercise and provide gave feedback on the chairmans performance to him in February.
strategic direction and focus to the Executive Committee.
The chairman continues to be responsible for the assessment of each Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate information to enable them individual directors performance and contribution.
They also have direct access to the advice and services of the Rio Tinto company secretary.
The directors are also able to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2014 Board Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans g g g h g g g Scheduled Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Jan du Plessis 9 9 9 9 5 5 13 13 Chris Lynch 9 9 10 13 Sam Walsh 9 9 11 13 a Robert Brown 9 9 2 2 4 4 5 5 b Megan Clark 1 1 c Vivienne Cox 3 3 2 2 1 1 Michael Fitzpatrick 9 9 6 6 8 9 5 5 Ann Godbehere 9 9 6 6 5 5 Richard Goodmanson 9 9 8 9 5 5 5 5 Lord Kerr 9 9 5 5 5 5 d Anne Lauvergeon 6 6 3 3 4 4 e Michael LEstrange 3 3 1 1 2 2 Paul Tellier 9 9 6 6 9 9 5 5 f Simon Thompson 5 6 3 3 3 4 John Varley 9 9 6 6 9 9 5 5 a Stepped down from the Sustainability Committee and joined the Audit Committee on 15 October 2014. b Joined the board on 20 November 2014. c Stood down from the board on 15 April 2014. d Joined the board on 15 March 2014. e Joined the board on 1 September 2014. f Joined the board on 1 April 2014 and had a prior conflict for meetings in September 2014. g The number of meetings attended maximum number the director could have attended.
h This included three meetings convened at short notice.
com 55 Corporate governance continued The committees are governed by terms of reference, set and approved by Governance structure the board, which are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference of the audit, The board has established sub-committees which are responsible for audit, nominations, remuneration and sustainability committees revised versions remuneration, sustainability and nominations issues.
In addition, a Chairmans of those for the audit, sustainability and nominations committees were Committee operates under delegated authority between scheduled board issued in February 2015 can be viewed in the Corporate governance meetings.
These committees support the board in ensuring that high section of the website.
standards of corporate governance are maintained across the Group.
The chief executive is assisted by the key management committees noted below in monitoring performance and delivering Rio Tintos strategy.
Board of directors Sustainability Remuneration Nominations Chairmans Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief executive Disclosure Investment Executive Closure Ore Reserves Risk Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Steering Committee Committee Board committees Management committees 56 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS To date in 2015 the Committee has reviewed, amongst others, the Board committees following matters which it considered to be significant in relation to the Audit Committee 2014 financial statements: Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere chairman, Robert Brown, Michael Fitzpatrick, Paul Tellier and John Varley.
Robert Brown was appointed carrying values in the draft 2014 Annual report, including assessment of to the Committee on 15 October 2014. impairment charges particularly at the Kitimat modernisation project and the Molybdenum Autoclave Process MAP and impairment reversals at Key responsibilities Pacific Aluminium.
The objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the board to monitor closure provisions and an increase to the provision adjusted through fixed decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting, assets at Rio Tinto Kennecott.
The Committee noted that this significant sound systems of internal control and risk management.
adjustment is primarily a result of updating the existing estimate to an The Committees terms of reference set out its main responsibilities, and are Order of Magnitude level reflecting the latest data and business plan.
available to view on the website.
The Committee is responsible for: managements key accounting judgments and policies, and the application of these in the accounts, including: Financial reporting: the justifications for exclusion of certain items from underlying Internal control, including internal control over financial reporting: earnings: and Internal audit and assurance: the Groups tax exposure, the recoverability of deferred tax assets and The external auditors appointment and relationship : the appropriateness of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
The effectiveness of the risk management framework: and the Groups resources and reserves report in the 2014 Annual report.
The integrity and compliance programme including the Groups SpeakOUT whistleblowing programme.
Key judgments considered In preparing the financial statements, a number of judgments and estimates In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has full authority to are required involving assumptions and consideration of future events that are investigate all matters that fall within its terms of reference.
The Committee focused its work on assessing Committee may: managements ongoing judgments and estimates against available evidence, obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties at and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
The Committee the cost of the Group: and also considered the external auditors views on these matters.
have direct access to the resources of the Group as it may reasonably Of the judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty listed as critical require including the external and internal auditors.
accounting policies and estimates in note 1 to the financial statements, the following areas received specific focus from the Committee over the year: Financial reporting During 2014 the Committees deliberations included the following matters Assessment of the carrying value and annual impairment reviews which it considered to be significant: of: assets dependent on the approval of major capital spend Oyu Tolgoi and Simandou : major assets under construction Kitimat modernisation Impairments in the 2013 accounts, and the continued monitoring of project and MAP : and for impairment reversals derived from the managements determination of cash-generating units, review of sustainability of improved business performances Aluminium group impairment triggers and consideration of potential impairment charges including Pacific Aluminium due to the size and degree of subjectivity and reversals over the course of the year.
related to the recoverable amount for these assets and the complex Managements key accounting judgments and policies, and the application judgments about the expected future performance of the business.
of these in the accounts, including: Valuation reports and indicators for the above assets to corroborate the the justification for exclusion of certain items from underlying earnings: internally prepared valuations.
For listed subsidiaries Turquoise Hill the Groups tax exposure, the consequences of the repeal of the Resources and Energy Resources of Australia, the Committee considered Mineral Resources Rent Tax and the appropriateness of provisions for the carrying value of these separate businesses against external market uncertain tax positions: and data, including market capitalisation and broker reports.
accounting for divestments announced in 2013 and 2014 with The assumptions on discount rate, long-term pricing and risk factors for contractual obligations which remain with the Group following future growth projects were considered and challenged by the Committee, completion of the divestments.
by understanding how they compare with external market data.
For Oyu Tolgoi, the timing of the underground development is an The Committee also considered: important factor in determining potential impairment, and the Committee the impact on internal financial controls of the overall cost reduction reviewed and challenged the likely timing in light of the progress of programme which has been implemented across the Group.
discussions with the Government of Mongolia and changes in Government the impact of the Groups finance transformation programme which in late 2014.
The Committee satisfied itself with regard to the carrying includes the centralisation and outsourcing of certain finance activities value for Oyu Tolgoi and the likely impact of further delays to the project excluding key controls to a third party provider.
Group Audit & Assurance on the carrying value as noted in note 6 on page 128. has performed a series of point-in-time reviews of the effectiveness of the Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations.
finance transformation governance structure and the transition of certain Estimates of risk free discount rates in light of the ongoing impact of processes to the outsourcing provider and reported to the Committee on fiscal interventions.
The Committee also focused on the different the findings from these reviews.
remediation or closure outcomes which could realistically arise when closure provisions.
assessing the adequacy of the provisioning for these obligations.
Both the Groups resources and reserves report in the 2013 Annual report and involve complex judgments.
received updates during the year.
com 57 Corporate governance continued Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets.
PwC have been the external auditors since before the formation of the DLC structure in 1995, and acted as external auditors to a number of the Appropriateness of continued recognition of deferred tax assets, companys legacy entities prior to the formation of the DLC.
In the UK, the particularly tax losses in France, recovery of which is restricted audit engagement partner Richard Hughes was appointed in 2011, and in by legislation.
Australia the audit engagement partner Paul Bendall was appointed in 2012.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits.
During 2014 the board They are due to transition off the audit after the December 2015 and 2016 received an update on the status of funding, investment and governance of year-end audits respectively.
pensions and other retirement benefits provided to current and former employees of the Company.
The Committee received reports in 2014 and The Committee considers its recommendations to the board on the 2015 on PwCs audit procedures over the Groups pension and postappointment and reappointment of auditors annually and specifically has retirement defined benefit assets and liabilities.
The Committee reviewed responsibility for establishing formal and transparent arrangements with PwC.
the disclosures on pensions in note 45 on pages 168 to 173.
The Committee has reviewed the timetable for tendering and has taken into account all relevant regulation and guidance.
New EU regulations and the In addition, the Committee critically assessed the projections of future cash recent ruling by the Competition and Markets Authority will impose mandatory flows under different scenarios and compared these with cash balances and rotation requirements from 2016 which require that the Groups auditors must committed facilities available in order that the Committee could recommend be changed by 2021.
In light of these requirements, it is likely that the audit to the board that the adoption by the Group of the going concern basis of will be tendered in 2017 or 2018 with the new auditors appointed for the 2019 preparation was appropriate.
Governance processes The Committee believes that the requirements of good governance and the The Committee met six times in 2014.
The chairman of the board, chief needs of Rio Tinto are best served by tendering in the above timeframe for the financial officer, other senior management and external and internal auditors following reasons: regularly attended its meetings.
The Committee carries out its business Rio Tinto is undergoing significant business process change through the following an agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
cost saving programme, which includes outsourcing of certain activities The members of the Committee are independent and free of any relationship including the finance transformation programme, and is currently that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
The implementing a new financial reporting consolidation system.
A measured members meet the independence requirements of the Code, the ASX rotation timetable maintains stability in the independent oversight Principles and the NYSE Standards.
The Committee meets the composition, provided by the external auditors while the business fully implements the operation and responsibility requirements of the ASX Principles.
changes to maximise efficiency and effectiveness.
Rio Tinto draws on expertise from a number of accounting firms and The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit committees therefore a rotation of external audit services will require careful planning financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles requirement that at least of transition periods to ensure that all services are fully contracted one committee member should have recent and relevant financial throughout the rotation process.
Ann Godbehere, chairman of the Committee, is considered by the board to have recent and relevant financial experience, and Rio Tinto ensures independence through other means, including detailed financial qualifications, and has been designated the Committees financial review, challenge and reporting of all work performed by accounting firms.
All other members of the Committee are, in the opinion of the board, summary is presented annually to the Audit Committee of the fees incurred deemed to be financially literate by virtue of their business experience.
and nature of work performed.
Further information on fees paid to PwC in 2014 for audit and non-audit services are set out on page 48 of the Directors report.
The Committee applies policies for the pre-approval of permitted services provided by the Groups external auditors PwC.
All of the engagements for The Committee meets privately with the Head of Group Audit & Assurance services provided by PwC were either within the pre-approval policies or from time to time without management present and the chairman of the separately approved by the Committee.
The Committee members are Committee has regular discussions with him.
satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by PwC in accordance with this procedure is compatible with the general standard of independence for Other auditors imposed by relevant regulations, including Australian, UK and In 2014 the Committee also: US legislation.
Conducted an ongoing review and monitoring of the Groups control The Committee considered reports from PwC and Group Audit & Assurance on environment and risk management processes and effectiveness.
the activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment in Reviewed Group Audit & Assurance findings and approved the Internal order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
Audit Plan and associated resources for 2015.
This included an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal Monitored Internal Control over Financial Reporting SOx testing results.
controls over financial reporting and the Groups disclosure controls and Monitored the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and internal procedures in accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley control systems.
Reviewed reports from the Head of Group Compliance.
The external auditors attended all six Committee meetings during the year.
In Monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system with advance of the Committee meetings, the audit partners brief the chairman of the Head of Group Risk.
the Committee on key matters.
Private discussion sessions were routinely held between PwC and the Committee without management present to discuss the Reviewed Legal and Tax disputes reports from the Group Executive, status of the audit and nature of interaction with management.
Legal & Regulatory Affairs and the Head of Tax respectively.
Considered the requirement for the Annual report and accounts, taken as a During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of PwC for Group whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
audit and local statutory audit work.
The evaluation, managed by the Groups financial controllers, took the form of a survey comprising a range of questions Reviewed the controls and processes in place over reporting of cost covering objectivity, quality, and efficiency, and was completed by individual savings achieved under the Groups cost reduction programme.
The results of this survey and review were assessed Considered the findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committees by the Committee which concluded that PwC continued to provide a highperformance and supported the recommended action.
quality audit and effective and independent challenge to management.
The Conducted ongoing monitoring of non-audit activities performed by the Committee was satisfied with the external audit process and that the Groups external auditors and approval of their audit engagement independence of the external auditors was in no way compromised.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS Considered proposals from various regulators including the Financial Key responsibilities Reporting Council and Competition and Markets Authority on Auditor The Remuneration Committee assists the board with fulfilling its oversight Independence and the Audit Committees responsibilities in this regard.
In particular, the Committee seeks to spend compensation resource fairly and responsibly to ensure that remuneration Underwent training and development on relevant accounting topics.
policy and practices are properly linked to corporate and individual performance In the first part of 2015, the Committee: and to the delivery of the Groups strategy on behalf of our owners.
The Committees terms of reference are available to view on the website.
Evaluated, at the request of the board, the 2014 Annual report and accounts, to assess whether they are, taken as a whole, fair, balanced The report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 64 to 100 has been and understandable.
recommended by the Committee for approval by the board, and was approved Considered findings from the 2014 evaluation of the by the board on 4 March 2015.
On page 75 we have included sections dealing Committees performance.
with the responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and how it spent its time in 2014.
During the remainder of 2015 the Committee will follow its annual schedule of meetings and topics for discussion and will report on the same in 2016.
Governance processes The Committee met nine times in 2014, including three ad hoc meetings Sustainability Committee called at short notice.
The Committee carries out its business following an Members of the Committee are Richard Goodmanson chairman, Anne agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
Lauvergeon, Michael LEstrange, Lord Kerr, Simon Thompson and Megan In addition to the matters noted on page 75, the Committee considered the Clark.
Anne Lauvergeon was appointed to the Committee with effect from findings from the 2013 external evaluation of the Committees performance.
Simon Thompson was appointed to the Committee with effect early 2015, the Committee considered the findings from the 2014 evaluation from 1 April 2014.
Robert Brown stood down from the Committee and Michael of the Committees performance.
LEstrange was appointed to the Committee on 15 October 2014.
Megan Clark was appointed to the Committee with effect from 20 November 2014.
Vivienne As set out in the Committee chairmans annual statement on pages 64 to 65, Cox stood down from the Committee with effect from 15 April 2014. we are committed to a continuing dialogue with our owners.
Key responsibilities Chairmans Committee The Committee assists the board with overseeing strategies designed to Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis chairman, Sam Walsh and manage social and environmental risks, overseeing management processes Chris Lynch.
and standards and achieving compliance with social and environmental responsibilities and commitments.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of Key responsibilities management policies and procedures relating to safety, health, employment The Committee acts on behalf of the board between scheduled board practices, relationships with neighbouring communities, environment, human meetings either in accordance with authority delegated by the board or as rights, land access, political involvement and sustainable development.
The specifically set out within its terms of reference.
It supports the functioning of Committees terms of reference are available to view on the website.
the board and ensures that the business of the board and its committees is properly planned and aligned with management.
When mandated by the Governance processes board, the Chairmans Committee will consider urgent matters between board In 2014, the Committee met five times.
The chairman of the board, chief meetings, and deals with the implementation of board decisions on executive, and other senior management regularly attend its meetings.
The transactions and other corporate matters.
Other than for the chairman of the Committee carries out its business following an agreed annual cycle of board, the Committee performs the annual review of non-executive directors meetings and topics for consideration.
fees and makes a recommendation to the board.
The members of the Committee are all independent in accordance with the Nominations Committee independence policy adopted by the board.
Members of the Committee comprise Jan du Plessis chairman and all 2014 activities non-executive directors.
In 2014 the Committee: Key responsibilities Reviewed key risks associated with process safety and communities and The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly assessing social performance, and managements plans for tackling them: the balance of executive and non-executive directors and the composition of Reviewed work plans formulated for health, safety, environment, the board in terms of the diversity and capacity required to oversee the communities and employment practices, and assurance over selected delivery of Rio Tintos strategy.
areas within the Committees terms of reference: The Committee develops and agrees in advance the desired profiles of Undertook reviews around major risk areas, including mine closures and potential candidates for board membership.
It oversees the recruitment legacy matters and energy, environment and climate change: process and engages external search consultants to manage searches on its Received updates on findings following the pit wall slide at Bingham behalf, including constructing shortlists comprising candidates from diverse Canyon and the fatality at Gove: and backgrounds.
Following a final review of shortlisted candidates, the Committee makes recommendations for new board members to the board for approval.
Considered the findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committees performance and implemented the recommendations.
The Committee engages Egon Zehnder from time to time.
Egon Zehnder conducts searches for a number of Rio Tinto positions and not only at board We draw to your attention the Sustainable development report on pages 20 to and Executive Committee level.
Egon Zehnder has no other connection with 26 of this report.
Remuneration Committee On behalf of the board, the Committee also reviews proposals for Members of the Committee are John Varley chairman, Jan du Plessis, appointments to the Executive Committee and monitors executive Michael Fitzpatrick, Richard Goodmanson and Paul Tellier.
com 59 Corporate governance continued Governance processes Diversity and inclusion The Committee meets as required and in 2014, met five times.
The members Our commitment to diversity and inclusion of the Committee are independent in accordance with the independence We are a global company and, wherever we operate and across every part of policy adopted by the board.
our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which difference is The Committee in its proceedings takes account of the Groups Diversity & recognised and valued.
By bringing together men and women from diverse Inclusion policy and progress in the diversity and inclusion arena, discussed backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity to contribute their further below.
skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we are able to develop the best solutions to challenges and deliver sustainable value for Rio Tinto In 2014, the Committee: and its stakeholders.
Continued regular executive and non-executive succession planning reviews.
The board received a presentation in 2014 on diversity and inclusion across Considered the findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committees the whole Group.
performance and supported the recommended actions.
Reviewed the mix of skills required for non-executive directors and briefed What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto the search firm accordingly.
Embracing workforce diversity age, gender, race, national or ethnic origin, Recommended to the board the appointment of Michael LEstrange and religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, and physical ability.
Megan Clark as non-executive directors.
Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging the diverse thinking, skills, experience and working styles of our employees and other stakeholders.
Received and considered a leadership assessment and development report on senior management talent from Egon Zehnder, and discussed the same Building a flexible organisation providing opportunities for work with them.
arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals at Considered, under the direction of John Varley, as senior independent different career and life stages.
director, the chairmans appointment as non-executive director and Respecting stakeholder diversity developing strong and sustainable chairman-designate of SABMiller plc, and its impact on his commitment relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, employees, to Rio Tinto.
Considered and recommended the appointment of Alfredo Barrios as How we support diversity and inclusion Aluminium product group chief executive.
We use the following to drive action and build awareness about diversity Reviewed the proposal to amend the service contracts of the chief and inclusion: executive and chief financial officer to twelve months notice.
Governance models In 2015, the Committee will continue its regular executive and non-executive Policies, practices and targets succession planning reviews.
In early 2015, the Committee considered the findings from the 2014 evaluation of the Committees performance.
Leadership and cultural competence Stakeholder relationships Board diversity Education and communication More information about the boards process for the selection, appointment and election of directors is available in the Corporate governance section of We prioritise long and short-term programmes based on need and impact.
Read a summary of our Diversity and inclusion policy in the Corporate The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and governance section of our website.
Our current focus In leading a global mining and metals company, the board seeks to continually Our goal is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors with diverse and communities in which we operate.
Currently, our focus is to improve the complementary skills and perspectives, as well as experience which reflects representation of women and of people from nationalities which are underthe geographic spread of the Groups operations.
Core skills required for nonrepresented in our workforce, and to continue to build an inclusive culture in executive membership of the board are maintained.
These skills may, which all talent can thrive.
depending upon the circumstances, comprise international business, financial or public policy experience, strategic acumen or mining or metals industry Some of the activities and initiatives relating to diversity that we undertook experience.
The board aspires to increase other aspects of diversity, including during the year are: gender and nationality, of directors in order to bring a diversity of skills, The development of executive-sponsored diversity and inclusion plans experience and perspective to the governance of the Group.
The board within the product groups and geographies which align with business goals recognises that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity is a long-term and the Group Diversity and inclusion strategy, the aim being to increase process and weighs the various factors relevant to board balance and diversity the diversity in our workforce at all levels and build a more inclusive when vacancies arise.
Progress is evaluated each year by the Executive Committee and In 2012 the board established two objectives relating to board diversity: Group Diversity Council and began in 2013.
Embed diversity and inclusion scorecards to accompany the above plans The Nominations Committee will undertake a review of board diversity.
with metrics in three areas: For each director selection and appointment process, the external search 1. Who we are demographics firm supporting the Nominations Committee will put forward at least one credible and suitably experienced female candidate.
How we behave performance and development 3.
What we stand for values These objectives were met in 2013 and 2014. to be applied across Rio Tinto to help baseline, trend and track progress as well as to address areas where we may be underperforming.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS Active involvement with Women in Mining groups, professional womens Whistleblowing programme associations and other targeted recruiting efforts to raise awareness about The board has adopted a confidential and independently operated Rio Tinto and to increase the attraction, development and retention of whistleblowing programme called Speak-OUT.
This offers an avenue where talented women wherever we operate.
employees, contractors, suppliers and customers of Rio Tinto managed sites can report concerns anonymously if they so choose, subject to local law.
This Expansion of our diversity champions network group to include additional can include any significant concerns about the business, or behaviour of geographies and operations, and the establishment of several new individuals, including suspicion of violations of financial reporting, safety or business unit diversity councils and committees across Rio Tinto.
These environmental procedures or business integrity issues generally.
The are increasing leadership engagement, cross-company collaboration, and programme features web submission, a case management tool to better the sharing and replication of best practices.
manage cases, and a reporting tool to allow for improved analysis of case The expansion of training programmes aimed at countering unconscious statistics and reporting.
Rio Tinto is also looking at ways to increase the bias.
These have targeted senior leaders, hiring managers and recruiters to positive awareness of Speak-OUT.
The Audit Committee receives a report help minimise the impact of bias in recruitment and development twice annually on Speak-OUT activity as does the Sustainability Committee practices, as well as to improve the cross-cultural interactions and with regard to calls to Speak-OUT impacting sustainable development issues.
 needed to globalise our business.
The continuation of a three-year commitment by the chairman to Dealing in Rio Tinto securities mentoring high-potential female board candidates through the FTSE100 Rio Tinto operates rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto securities by Cross-company Mentoring Programme.
directors and employees with access to inside information.
These rules require those people to seek clearance before any proposed dealing and place The chief executive became the chairman of the Group Diversity Council in restrictions on when some people can deal.
Communication with stakeholders Proportion of women employees and board members Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective timely communication with In 2014, the proportion of women on the board was 21.4 per cent ie 3 out shareholders and the wider investment community.
of 14, in senior management 15.5 per cent and in the overall workforce 18.7 per cent.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for determining whether information relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets.
Measurable objectives and progress Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure unless an exemption applies allowing a We established the following five-year measurable objectives for workforce delay to the relevant listing authorities in accordance with their rules of any diversity at the start of 2011. information that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on Measurable objective Progress during 2014 its share price.
All information released to the markets is posted on the Media Women to represent 20 per cent of our Women represented 15.5 per cent of section of the website.
senior management by 2015. our senior management in 2014.
In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos website features information on Women to represent 40 per cent of our Women represented 31.8 per cent of corporate governance, and general investor information.
Annual and half year 2015 graduate intake.
results, as well as any major presentations, are webcast and the materials are 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate 17.8 per cent of our 2014 graduate available on the website.
Presentation material from investor seminars is also intake to be nationals from regions intake were nationals from regions made available on the website.
wherewearedeveloping wherewearedeveloping The annual general meetings present an opportunity to provide a summary new businesses.
business presentation, to inform shareholders of recent developments and to give them the opportunity to ask questions.
Generally, the chairs of all board Subsidiary board diversity committees will be available to answer questions raised by shareholders and all In addition to the measurable objectives described above, women also directors are expected to attend where possible.
In 2014 all of the directors represented 10.6 per cent of the directors of our principal controlled subsidiary attended the annual general meetings.
Rio Tintos external auditors, PwC, undertakings during 2014 15 female: 126 male.
attend the annual general meetings and are available to answer questions about the conduct of the external audit and the preparation and content of the Other disclosures Independent auditors report.
Any questions received and answers provided Policies and standards ahead of the annual general meetings are made available to shareholders, who Rio Tintos commitment to integrity is set out in our global code of business also have the opportunity to meet informally with directors after the meetings.
 The main channels of communication with the investment community are which reaffirm the Groups commitment to integrity.
It is inspired by our four through the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer, who core values: respect, integrity, teamwork and accountability.
It is available on have regular meetings with the Companies major shareholders.
senior independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to It is supported by a number of policies and standards.
Core policies are shareholders who have concerns, and where contact with the chairman, adopted after wide consultation, externally and within the Group.
Once chief executive or chief financial officer has failed to resolve their concerns, adopted, they are communicated to business units worldwide, together with or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
In his capacity as Remuneration related standards, guidance notes and resources to support implementation.
Committee chairman, the senior independent director meets shareholders to Business unit management are required to devote the necessary effort to discuss remuneration issues as described in his annual statement on pages implement and report on these policies and standards.
Rio Tinto policies and standards include policies on a variety of important topics.
They apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses.
Where the Group does not have operating responsibility for a business, Rio Tintos policies and standards are communicated to its business partners and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own.
Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake training about the requirements of The way we work and other core policies.
com 61 Corporate governance continued During 2014, these meetings with the investment community focused on the Internal control systems issues of strategy, board succession, corporate governance, executive Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive Committee and remuneration, and the operational and financial performance of the Group.
the Disclosure Committee, regularly review reports related to the Groups Regular investor seminars provide a two-way communication opportunity with control framework in order to satisfy the internal control requirements of the investors and analysts.
On 24 November 2014, a corporate governance forum Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards and section 404 of the was hosted in Sydney to provide investors with an opportunity to engage with Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
The Group Audit & Assurance function performs the chairman and the chairs of the board committees.
A similar event will be reviews of the integrity and effectiveness of control activities and provides held in London on 17 March 2015.
Feedback from such engagement is regular reports to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee and other routinely communicated to the board.
Surveys of major shareholders opinions management committees.
are presented to the board by the Groups investor relations advisers on a Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and functions complete a regular basis.
representation letter confirming that adequate internal controls are in place, are operating effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and Risk management weaknesses, if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
Rio Tintos overriding objective is to generate attractive, sustainable returns to shareholders through a strategy of investing in long-life, low-cost, expandable In 2014, information was reported by management to the Audit Committee to operations in the most attractive industry sectors.
The directors recognise that enable it to assess the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
In addition, as part of their role, the board and its committees routinely monitor the Groups material business risks.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect Rio Tinto is found on pages 14 to 17.
Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material business risks is Risk policy and standard designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to provide reasonable, but The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the business and not absolute assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
Certain risks, carefully considers the level of risk it is prepared to tolerate.
The Group fosters a for example natural disasters, cannot be managed to an acceptable degree risk-aware corporate culture in all decision-making, and is committed to using internal controls.
Such major risks are transferred to third parties in the managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner through competent risk international insurance markets, to the extent considered appropriate.
The management that ensures that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
To Group has material investments in a number of jointly controlled entities and support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the management associates.
Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial control, it cannot decisions taken at all levels within the organisation.
The principles of the risk guarantee that local management of mining and related assets will comply analysis are set out in the Risk policy which is on the website.
with Rio Tinto standards or objectives.
Risk approach Auditors and internal assurance The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated framework of risk External auditors governance and reporting specifying how the Group organises the handling of As indicated in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 57 to 59, Rio Tinto risk.
Together with the policy, the framework provides an ongoing process for has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the Groups identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
external auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide other accounting Clear accountability for risk management is defined throughout the Group and and other professional services that might compromise their appointment as is a key performance area of line managers.
To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group Risk The engagement of the external auditors to provide statutory audit services, function provides the necessary infrastructure, information collation for the other services pursuant to legislation, taxation services, and certain other senior executive, and co-ordination between other risk-focused functions.
Any engagement of the external auditors to provide Group Risk supports the Risk Management Committee in its review of risk.
other permitted services is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Whilst the Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness of Committee or its chairman.
For other services, because of their knowledge, the Groups risk management systems, the responsibility for identifying and experience and or for reasons of confidentiality, it can be more efficient or managing risks rests with the chief executive and all of Rio Tintos managers necessary to engage the external auditor rather than another party.
and business leaders, who operate within a Group-wide framework that At half year and year end, the chief financial officer and the external auditors ensures that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
submit to the Audit Committee a schedule of the types of services that were Internal controls performed during the period.
The Audit Committee may impose a financial The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
Any for reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
This non-audit service provided by the external auditors, where the expected fee includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Groups normal management procedures and their effectiveness.
The directors have tender procedures.
completed their annual review and assessment for 2014.
In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is authorised to engage the external auditors to provide such services without going to tender, but if the fees are expected to exceed certain pre-determined limits then the chairman of the Audit Committee must give prior approval of the engagement.
Further information on audit and non-audit fees of the Groups external auditors is set out in note 39 to the financial statements and in the Directors report.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS Group Audit & Assurance The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other Group Audit & Assurance is an internal function which provides independent members of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course of the and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct themselves systems for risk management, internal control and governance together with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the ethical standards of with recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the relevant systems their profession and the business.
The function has an internal audit methodology which is The directors consider that the 2014 Annual report presents a true and fair aligned with international auditing standards set by the Institute of Internal view and has been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting Auditors IIA.
standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos The function operates independently of management, under a mandate business, and supported by reasonable judgments and estimates.
The approved by the Audit Committee, and has full access to all functions, records, accounting policies have been consistently applied.
The directors have property and personnel of the Group.
The head of Group Audit & Assurance received a written statement from the chief executive and the chief financial administratively reports to the chief financial officer and has direct officer to this effect.
In accordance with the internal control requirements of communication lines with the chairs of both the Audit Committee and the Code and the ASX Principles Recommendation 7.3, this written Sustainability Committee and regularly attends their meetings.
statement confirms that the declarations in the statement are founded on a sound system of risk management and internal controls, and that the A risk-based approach is used to focus assurance activities on high-risk areas system is operating effectively in all material respects in relation to financial and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit Committee and reporting risks.
Disclosure controls and procedures In respect of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the services of The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such term is external service providers.
The function has a policy which addresses conflicts defined in US Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, with the of interest in relation to engagements of the service provider that are participation of the chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the requested by management.
The policy complies with the IIAs standards on effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls independence.
Certain services are pre-approved under the policy as they and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the would not be in conflict with the internal auditors role.
There is a list of period covered by this report and has concluded that these disclosure controls prohibited services which may not be undertaken without approval of the head and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
of Group Audit & Assurance, and guidance on the consideration of services which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The management of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited is responsible for Financial reporting establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial Financial statements reporting.
The companies internal control over financial reporting is a process The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial designed under the supervision of their common chief executive and chief period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the end of the financial period, and the profit or loss and cash flows for that financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups period.
This includes preparing financial statements in accordance with UK published financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance company law which give a true and fair view of the state of the companys with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report which includes the information The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes policies and required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: Australian Corporations Act 2001. provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to In addition, the Code requires that the board provides a fair, balanced and permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and that understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects in its receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with external reporting.
The directors were responsible for the preparation and authorisations of management and directors of each of the Companies: and approval of the Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
They provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of consider the Annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Groups assets that could understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to have a material effect on our financial statements.
assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Due to inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, in provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent or detect all misstatements accordance with UK and Australian legislation.
They have a general whether caused by error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Rio Tinto Limited.
safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that appropriate over financial reporting as of 31 December 2014, based on the Internal Control systems are in place to maintain and preserve the integrity of the Groups Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of of the Treadway Commission COSO issued in 2013, and concluded that it financial statements may differ from current and future legislation in other was effective.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of such developments and, accordingly, the external auditors There were no changes in the internal controls over financial reporting that accept no responsibility for any changes, should any be made, to the financial occurred during the period that have materially affected, or are reasonably statements after they are made available on the website.
likely to materially affect, the internal controls over financial reporting of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
