Directors report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE for the year relate to their review of the Internal audit Chris Cole Chairman Companys interim results, comfort letters The internal operational audit teams in the Michael Burrow related to our December 2013 debt issue and two businesses undertake operational audits Geoff Drabble due diligence support.
Details of the fees across the store network using a risk based Bruce Edwards payable to the external auditor are given methodology.
Each year we agree the scope Hugh Etheridge in Note 4 to the financial statements.
of work and the coverage in the audit plan Ian Sutcliffe at the start of the year and receive formal Reappointment of external auditor reports on the results of the work at the half Deloitte was appointed external auditor in Eric Watkins is secretary to the Committee.
The external auditor is required to were completed, which is consistent with our rotate the audit partner responsible for the MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE goal for each of our nearly 600 stores to Group audit every five years and this year is NOMINATION COMMITTEE receive an audit visit at least once every two the current lead audit partners first year.
The audits are scored and action plans The Committee considers the re-appointment The principal duties of the Committee are agreed with store management to remedy of the external auditor each year and is making recommendations to the Board on: identified weaknesses.
This continual process recommending to the Board that a proposal of reinforcement is key to the store level the Boards structure, size, composition be put to shareholders at the 2014 Annual control environment.
and balance: General Meeting for the re-appointment of Deloitte.
There are no contractual restrictions In addition, we engage a major international the appointment, reappointment, on the Companys choice of external auditor accounting firm to perform detailed internal retirement or continuation of any and in making its recommendation the audits at the Groups major support centres director: and Committee took into account, amongst periodically.
The last review was undertaken the continuation of any non-executive other matters, the tenure, objectivity and in 2012 13 and we have ensured that the director who has served for a period independence of Deloitte, as noted above, improvement actions agreed by management of three years or more.
and its continuing effectiveness and cost.
The Committee is monitoring the proposed The Nomination Committees terms of Whistle-blowing legislative changes on audit tendering and reference will be available for inspection There are policies and procedures in place rotation from the European Union and the at the Annual General Meeting.
whereby staff may, in confidence, report Competition Commission and will implement concerns about possible improprieties or them when they become final.
As a result SUMMARY OF THE COMMITTEES WORK breaches of Company policy or procedure.
of these proposed changes, the Financial DURING THE YEAR These suspicions are investigated and the Reporting Council FRC has indicated The Committee met twice during the year results of the investigation are reported to the its intention to withdraw the tendering and the principal matters discussed were: whistle-blower.
The Committee receives a provisions included within the Code.
Under report from the company secretary on control succession planning: the transitional provisions suggested by the issues arising from whistle-blowing as well FRC, we would not have been required to the review of the Committees terms as from other sources.
undertake a formal tender process until 2018. of reference: The Committee will continue to review Nomination Committee the reappointment of Ian Sutcliffe: and annually the need to tender the audit due The Nomination Committee meets as and to quality, effectiveness or independence the appointment of Wayne Edmunds.
when required to consider the structure size reasons and will decide when a tender By order of the Board and composition of the Board of directors.
process would be sensible from a company The Committees primary focus during the and shareholder perspective.
year remained succession planning and, Financial control and risk management in particular, the orderly replacement of The Companys objective is to maintain a the long-serving non-executive directors.
strong control environment which minimises The only change to the Board during the year the financial risk faced by the business.
It is was the appointment of Wayne Edmunds.
ERIC WATKINS the Committees responsibility to review and Wayne is replacing Hugh Etheridge who COMPANY SECRETARY assess the effectiveness of the Companys retires from the Board on 30 June 2014 after 16 June 2014 internal financial controls and internal control ten years service.
The Committee also recommended to the The Committee receives regular reports Board that Ian Sutcliffe, who has served as from internal operational audit, outsourced a non-executive director for three years, internal audit and the Group Risk Committee.
be reappointed for a further term of The Groups risk management processes three years.
are an area of focus as they adapt to reflect changes to our risk profile as a result of our significant growth, both organic and through bolt-on acquisitions.
