40 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT Following the retirement of Hugh Etheridge BOARD EFFECTIvENESS REvIEW on 30 June 2014, Ian Sutcliffe will be The performance of the chairman, chief appointed as senior independent nonexecutive, the Board and its committees is executive director on 1 July 2014. evaluated against, amongst other things, CHRIS COLE their respective role profiles and terms Wayne Edmunds was appointed to the Board CHAIRMAN of reference.
The executive directors are as an independent non-executive director evaluated additionally against the agreed on 10 February 2014 and will be appointed budget for the generation of revenue, chairman of the Audit Committee and a profit and value to shareholders.
member of the Remuneration and Nomination Dear Shareholder Committees with effect from 1 July 2014.
Following last years external performance Your Board is committed to maintaining evaluation, this years evaluation was high standards of corporate governance.
We AREAS OF BOARD FOCUS conducted by way of a questionnaire recognise that good governance is essential During the past year the Board has paid completed by all directors, the results in assisting the business manage its risk, particular attention to the following of which were collated by the company deliver its strategy, generate shareholder important areas: secretary and presented to the entire value and safeguard shareholders long-term continuing to develop and promote Board.
Based on this evaluation, the Board interests.
The Company is subject to the UK corporate responsibility throughout concluded that performance in the past year Corporate Governance Code published by the business: had been satisfactory.
the Financial Reporting Council the Code, copies of which are publicly available at assessing the effectiveness of our In accordance with the Code, it is the Boards www.
As Ashtead continues to health and safety practices and monitoring intention to have its and its committees grow, I will ensure the governance regime across the Group, and identifying areas performance evaluation conducted by an remains appropriately robust.
The Board is for improvement: external third party every three years.
accountable to the Companys shareholders evaluating our robust operating model COMPLIANCE for corporate governance and I, as chairman, and structure to ensure they remain fit We endeavour to monitor and comply with am responsible for ensuring the Board for purpose as Ashtead grows and ongoing changes in corporate governance operates effectively.
I am pleased to introduce markets change: and evolving best practice in this area.
The the corporate governance report for 2013 14.
Company complied throughout the year with This report details the matters addressed by continuing review of the effectiveness the provisions of the Code and I am pleased to the Board and its committees during the year.
of our capital structure as the economic confirm this report provides a fair, balanced environment changes: BOARD COMPOSITION AND DIvERSITY and understandable view of the Groups Each member of our Board must be able an ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of position and prospects.
to demonstrate the skills, experience and our strategy and the degree to which it knowledge required to contribute to the remains appropriate as markets and effectiveness of the Board.
It is also opportunities change: important that we address issues of diversity ensuring our key management resource in terms of skills, geographical experience remains motivated and appropriately relevant to our business and gender.
I believe rewarded: the Board is appropriately balanced in terms CHRIS COLE of diversity with a good mix of specialist skills succession planning and ongoing senior CHAIRMAN and market expertise.
recruitment: and reviewing Board priorities and activities in line with our risk and ethics management regime.
Directors report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS HELD BETWEEN 1 MAY 2013 AND 30 APRIL 2014 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held 6 5 5 2 Chris Cole 6 2 Sat Dhaiwal 6 Geoff Drabble 6 2 Brendan Horgan 6 Suzanne Wood 6 Michael Burrow 6 5 5 2 Bruce Edwards 6 4 2 Wayne Edmunds 2 1 Hugh Etheridge 6 5 5 2 Ian Sutcliffe 6 5 5 2 Wayne Edmunds was appointed as a director on 10 February 2014 since when there were two Board meetings and one Audit Committee meeting.
direction and management of the day-to-day The Board MATTERS RESERvED TO THE BOARD business and conduct of the Group.
In doing The Companys Board comprises the so, the chief executives role includes, non-executive chairman, the chief executive, The schedule of matters reserved to the but is not restricted to, implementing the finance director, the executive heads of Board for decision includes: Board decisions, delegating responsibility, Sunbelt and A-Plant, the senior independent and reporting to the Board regarding the treasury policy: non-executive director and ordinarily three conduct, activities and performance of the other independent non-executive directors.
The chief executive chairs the Short biographies of the directors are given Sunbelt and A-Plant board meetings and appointment and removal of directors on pages 38 and 39. sets policies and direction to maximise or the company secretary: The chairman undertakes leadership of returns to shareholders.
appointment and removal of the auditor: the Board by agreeing Board agendas and All directors are responsible under the law ensures its effectiveness by requiring the approval of the annual accounts for the proper conduct of the Companys provision of timely, accurate and clear and the quarterly financial reports affairs.
The directors are also responsible information on all aspects of the Groups to shareholders: for ensuring that the strategies proposed business, to enable the Board to take sound approval of the issue of shares by the executive directors are discussed decisions and promote the success of the and debentures: in detail and assessed critically to ensure business.
The chairman, assisted by other they are aligned with the long-term interests the setting of dividend policy: and directors, reviews the effectiveness of each of shareholders and are compatible with member of the Board no less than annually the buy-back of shares.
the interests of employees, customers and facilitates constructive relationships and suppliers.
between the executive and non-executive Regular reports and briefings are provided directors through both formal and to the Board, by the executive directors and informal meetings.
the company secretary, to ensure the The chairman ensures that all directors are directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their briefed properly to enable them to discharge roles.
The Board normally meets six times their duties effectively.
All newly appointed a year and there is contact between meetings directors undertake an induction to all parts to advance the Companys activities.
It is the of the Groups business.
Additionally, detailed Boards usual practice to meet regularly with management accounts are sent monthly to the senior executives of Sunbelt and A-Plant.
all Board members and, in advance of all The directors also have access to the company Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate secretary and are able to seek independent documentation in respect of each item to advice at the Companys expense.
The directors will retire at this years Annual The chairman facilitates effective General Meeting and will offer themselves communication with shareholders through for election or re-election in accordance with both the annual general meeting and by being the Code.
available to meet with major shareholders, to develop an understanding of the views of There is a schedule of matters reserved to the investors in the business.
He also ensures the Board for decision.
Other matters are that shareholders have access to other delegated to Board committees, details of directors, including non-executive directors, which are given on pages 44, 45 and 58. as appropriate.
The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive undertakes the leadership and responsibility for the 42 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT cOnTInUEd SUMMARY OF THE BOARDS Non-executive directors Board committees WORK DURING THE YEAR In the recruitment of non-executive directors, The Board has standing Audit, Nomination During the year, the Board considered all it is the Companys practice to utilise the and Remuneration Committees.
The matters reserved to the Board for decision, services of an external search consultancy.
membership roles and activities of the Audit focusing in particular on the following: This was the case with the selection of Wayne and Nomination Committees are detailed Edmunds who was engaged following an on pages 43 to 45 and the Remuneration Adoption of the 2014 15 budget extensive search for an individual with Committee in the separate report on Review of operations, current trading relevant financial and operational experience.
pages 46 to 58. and outlook Before appointment, non-executive directors Each committee reports to, and has its terms are required to assure the Board that they Approval of the quarterly financial of reference agreed by, the Board.
The terms can give the time commitment necessary to statements of reference of these committees are fulfil properly their duties, both in terms of available on our website and will be available Approval of the annual report and accounts availability to attend meetings and discuss for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
matters on the telephone and meeting Approval of the AGM resolutions preparation time.
The non-executives letters FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION Dividend policy of appointment will be available for inspection COMMITTEE Investor relations at the Annual General Meeting.
The approval The Finance and Administration Committee of the chairman is required before a noncomprises Chris Cole, Geoff Drabble Treasury policy executive can take on other non-executive chairman and Suzanne Wood.
The Board Issue of $400m of additional notes director roles.
of directors has delegated authority to this under the Groups second priority senior committee to deal with routine financial The non-executive directors including the secured notes and administrative matters between chairman meet as and when required in the Board meetings.
The Committee meets as An upsizing of the Groups asset backed absence of the executive directors to discuss necessary to perform its role and has a loan facility to $2.0bn and appraise the performance of the Board as quorum requirement of two members with a whole and the performance of the executive Review of the work of the Groups certain matters requiring the participation directors.
In accordance with the Code, the Risk Committee of Chris Cole, non-executive chairman, non-executive directors, led by the senior including, for example, the approval of Review and approval of the Groups independent non-executive director, also material announcements to the London risk register meet at least annually in the absence of Stock Exchange.
the chairman to discuss and appraise his Growth and acquisition strategy performance.
Internal control Various acquisitions, including Contractors Non-executive directors are appointed for Equipment Company and Shamrock The directors acknowledge their responsibility specified terms not exceeding three years and Equipment Rental in the US and Accession for the Groups system of internal control and are subject to re-election and the provisions Group Limited in the UK confirm they have reviewed its effectiveness.
of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the In doing so, the Group has taken note of the The appointment of a new non-executive removal of a director.
relevant guidance for directors, published director by the Financial Reporting Council, Internal The recommendations of the Control: Guidance to Directors.
Remuneration Committee The Board confirms that there is a process TENURE OF NON-ExECUTIvE for identifying, evaluating and managing DIRECTORS YEARS significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the full financial 4 year and is ongoing.
Under its terms of 12 reference the Group Risk Committee meets semi-annually or more frequently if required, 7 with the objective of encouraging best risk management practice across the Group and a culture of regulatory compliance and ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk Committee reports annually to the Audit Committee.
7 The Board considers that the Groups internal 10 control system is designed appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Chris Cole Hugh Etheridge failure to achieve its business objectives.
Michael Burrow Any such control system, however, can Bruce Edwards only provide reasonable and not absolute Ian Sutcliffe assurance against material misstatement Wayne Edmunds just appointed or loss.
Hugh Etheridge will be retiring as a non-executive director on 30 June 2014.
