Directors report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43 The Group reviews the risks it faces in its the preparation of an annual budget and reviewed our policy on non-audit services business and how these risks are managed.
periodic update forecasts which are which we concluded remained appropriate These reviews are conducted in conjunction reviewed by the executive directors and although we amended the level at which with the management teams of each of the then by the Board: pre-approval of services is required by the Groups businesses and are documented in an Committee chairman and the Committee.
a programme of rental equipment annual report.
The reviews consider whether inventories and full inventory counts One of the principles introduced in the Code is any matters have arisen since the last report conducted at each store by equipment the one that the Board should present a fair, was prepared which might indicate omissions type and independently checked on a balanced and understandable assessment or inadequacies in that assessment.
It also sample basis by our operational auditors of the Companys position and prospects considers whether, as a result of changes in and external auditor: through its financial reporting.
We have either the internal or external environment, always sought to ensure our financial and detailed internal audits at the Groups any new significant risks have arisen.
The other external reporting is fair, balanced and major accounting centres undertaken Group Risk Committee reviewed the draft understandable.
However, with this more periodically by internal audit specialists report for 2014, which was then presented to, formal reporting obligation, the Committee from a major international accounting firm: discussed by the Audit Committee on 19 May has kept this principle at the forefront of its 2014 and approved by the Audit Committee comprehensive audits at the stores thought process as it has reviewed all the and the Group Board on 12 June 2014. generally carried out every two years by Companys financial reports in advance of Before producing the statement on internal internal operational audit.
A summary publication and is satisfied that they provide a control for the Annual Report and Accounts of this work is provided annually to the fair, balanced and understandable assessment for the year ended 30 April 2014, the Board Audit Committee: and of the Companys position and prospects.
reconsidered the operational effectiveness whistle-blowing procedures by which In February this year, Wayne Edmunds joined of the Groups internal control systems.
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns the Committee on his appointment to the In particular, through the Audit Committee, about possible improprieties or breaches Board.
He was selected based on his strong it received reports from the operational audit of company policy or procedure.
financial experience and will assume my role teams and considered the internal control as chairman of the Committee with effect improvement recommendations made by the from 1 July 2014.
Audit Committee Groups internal auditors and its external INTRODUCTION BY HUGH ETHERIDGE, auditor and managements implementation AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN plans.
The control system includes written HUGH ETHERIDGE I am pleased to introduce the report of the policies and control procedures, clearly CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit Committee for 2013 14. drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting The Committee assists the Board in MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE and analysis against budgets and discharging its responsibility for oversight The Committee is comprised of independent latest forecasts.
and monitoring of financial reporting, non-executive directors, biographical details risk management and internal control.
In a group of the size, complexity and of which are set out on pages 38 and 39.
As chairman of the Committee, it is my geographical diversity of Ashtead, minor The members of the Committee during the responsibility to ensure that the Committee breakdowns in established control year were: fulfils its responsibilities in a rigorous and procedures can occur.
There are supporting Hugh Etheridge Chairman effective manner.
The Committees agenda is policies and procedures for investigation and Michael Burrow designed, in conjunction with the Boards, to management of control breakdowns at any of Wayne Edmunds appointed 10 February 2014 ensure that all significant areas of risk are the Groups stores or elsewhere.
The Audit Ian Sutcliffe covered and to enable it to provide timely Committee also meets regularly with the input to Board deliberations.
Hugh Etheridge and Wayne Edmunds have external auditor to discuss their work.
relevant and recent financial experience.
Last year, following publication of the new UK In relation to internal financial control, Hugh Etheridge retires from the Board at the Corporate Governance Code in September the Groups control and monitoring end of June and will be replaced as chairman 2012 the Code, we sought to provide more procedures include: of the Committee by Wayne Edmunds.
insight into the matters considered by the Eric Watkins is secretary to the Committee.
the maintenance and production of Committee during the year.
This year we have Chris Cole, Geoff Drabble, Suzanne Wood, accurate and timely financial management provided further information which I believe and the Groups deputy finance director information, including a monthly profit and will give shareholders the assurance that the generally attend meetings by invitation.
loss account and selected balance sheet control environment of the Company is being In addition, the Group audit partner from data for each store: appropriately monitored and controlled.
our external auditor usually attends the the control of key financial risks through I am satisfied that the Committee was Committee meetings.
clearly laid down authority levels and provided with good quality and timely proper segregation of accounting duties The Audit Committees terms of reference material to allow proper consideration to be at the Groups accounting support centres: will be available for inspection at the Annual given to the topics under review.
satisfied that the meetings were scheduled the preparation of a monthly financial to allow sufficient time to ensure all matters report to the Board: were considered fully.
In addition, we 44 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT cOnTInUEd We are satisfied that the going concern basis meetings.
The first, in December, contains the MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES of preparation continues to be appropriate results of Deloittes review of our half-year OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE in preparing the financial statements.
The half-year review forms part of Deloittes planning for the annual audit, and Goodwill impairment review The Audit Committee assists the Board their full audit plan and proposed audit fee The Group undertakes a formal goodwill in its oversight and monitoring of is presented to the February meeting of the impairment review as at 30 April each year.
financial reporting, risk management Committee.
Deloittes final report of the This is based on the latest approved budget and internal controls.
year is at the June committee meeting and three-year plan for Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The principal responsibilities of the when we review the draft annual report.
We reviewed this assessment and are Committee are to: Their report contains the findings from their satisfied that there is no impairment of the audit work, including comments on the draft monitor the integrity of the annual and carrying value of goodwill in either Sunbelt annual report.
quarterly results, including a review or A-Plant.
of the significant financial reporting Integrity of financial reporting External audit effectiveness judgements contained therein: We reviewed the integrity of the quarterly and The Committee conducted an assessment annual financial statements of the Company.
establish and oversee the Companys of the effectiveness of the audit of the 2014 This included the review and discussion of relationship with the external financial statements, based on its own papers prepared by management and took auditor, including the external audit experience and drawing on input from senior account of the views of the external auditors.
process, their audit and non-audit corporate management and senior finance The key areas reviewed in the current year fees and independence and make management at Sunbelt and A-Plant.
recommendations to the Board on the The review was based on questionnaires appointment of the external auditor: Carrying value of rental fleet completed by the members of the Committee Management undertakes an annual review and senior management.
The questionnaires review and assess the effectiveness of the appropriateness of the useful lives and focused on the quality and experience of the of the Companys internal financial residual values assigned to property, plant team assigned to the audit, the robustness controls and internal control and risk and equipment and assesses whether they of the audit process, the quality of delivery management systems: continue to be appropriate and whether there and communication and governance and oversee the nature, scope and are any indications of impairment.
We are independence of the audit firm.
The review effectiveness of the internal audit satisfied that the judgements taken are process identified areas where the audit work undertaken: and appropriate and consistent with prior years.
process had improved over the prior year and certain areas where we believe further monitor the Companys policies and Accounting for acquisitions improvement can be achieved.
These areas procedures for handling allegations The Group made a number of small will be considered during the course of from whistle-blowers.
We reviewed the preparation for the audit of the 2015 financial accounting for these acquisitions, including The Committee reports to the Board on statements.
Overall, the Committee is the identification of acquired intangible assets its activities and minutes of meetings satisfied that the audit process and strategy which relate predominantly to customer are available to the Board.
for the audit of the 2014 financial statements relationships.
Under the terms of the was effective.
acquisition of Eve, deferred consideration of SUMMARY OF THE COMMITTEES WORK Non-audit services and external auditor up to 7m was payable based on increased DURING THE YEAR independence earnings targets.
The Groups initial The Committee met on five occasions during The Committee has reviewed its policy on assessment was that this would be paid in the year.
Meetings are scheduled to coincide non-audit services during the year.
However, based on performance in the with our financial reporting cycle, with four Committee concluded that the policy remains year following acquisition, 2.8m became due regular meetings scheduled prior to our appropriate although it amended the level at and was paid in May.
The balance of 4.2m quarterly, half-year and annual results which pre-approval is required.
As a result, has been recorded in the income statement announcements.
An additional meeting was any engagement where the fee is expected in accordance with IFRS 3. held in May this year to facilitate the handover to exceed 75,000 but be less than 150,000, Going concern from Hugh Etheridge to Wayne Edmunds as should be pre-approved by the Committee We reviewed the appropriateness of the going chair of the Committee.
If the fee is expected to exceed concern assumption in preparing the financial partner from Deloitte attends all meetings 150,000, the engagement must be prestatements.
We reviewed a paper prepared by of the Committee and reports formally at approved by the Committee.
It is accepted management which considered the Groups three of these meetings.
that certain work of a non-audit nature is internal budgets and forecasts of future best undertaken by the external auditor, A similar process is undertaken at each performance, available financing facilities for example, in connection with our debt issue reporting date whereby the Committee and facility headroom.
Taking account of in December 2013.
Each year we review the receives a paper from management which reasonably possible changes in trading level of fees and nature of non-audit work comments on the principal balances in the performance, used equipment values and undertaken and we were again satisfied that it financial statements and discusses any other factors that might affect availability, was in line with our policy and did not detract matters of a financial reporting nature arising the Group expects to maintain significant from the objectivity and independence of the since the last meeting.
In addition, we receive headroom under the ABL facility for the external auditor.
The principal non-audit fees reports from Deloitte at three of the forthcoming year.
paid to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP,
