Directors Report NOMINATIONS AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE The role of the Nominations and Governance Committee is to lead BOARD BALANCE AND COMPOSITION the process for appointments to the Board, ensuring there is a During the year, the committee reviewed the balance and formal and appropriate procedure for the appointment and composition of the Board taking into account skills, knowledge, induction of new directors.
As part of the governance review experience and diversity.
The review highlighted the skills and conducted in the year, the Board agreed that corporate governance attributes required in order to determine and identify new Board would become the responsibility of the Nominations Committee.
As a result, the committees remit has been widened so that NATIONALITIES OF THE BOARD it is responsible for reviewing the governance framework TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVES going forward.
0 3 years 4 UK 11 3 6 years 2 US 1 The committee reviews the composition and balance of the Board 6 9 years 3 Singaporean 1 and senior executive team on a regular basis to ensure that the German 1 Group has the right structure, knowledge, skills, and experience in place to ensure effective management of the Group.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE BALANCE OF BOARD The committee, which met four times during 2014 as the Nominations Committee, consists of all of the Non-Executive Chairman 1 Directors.
Executive Directors 4 Members Attendance in 2014 Non-Executive Ian Davis Chairman 4 4 Directors 9 Dame Helen Alexander 4 4 Lewis Booth CBE 4 4 We are confident that we now have the right mix of skills, Ruth Cairnie appointed 1 September 2014 1 1 experience and diversity.
Across the board membership we benefit Sir Frank Chapman 4 4 from extensive experience of working in global and complex Iain Conn retired 1 May 2014 2 2 businesses operating in diverse geographical and product markets.
Warren East CBE 4 4 Our Non-Executive Directors have extensive experience of working Lee Hsien Yang 3 4 at the most senior levels within complex multi-national companies John McAdam 4 4 and organisations and our Audit Committee chairman was CFO John Neill CBE 4 4 of a global company.
They have had direct experience of a range Jasmin Staiblin 4 4 of significant factors in common with Rolls-Royce including product quality and customer service across a diverse range of engineering, Responsibilities: manufacturing and extractive environments, innovative reviewing the structure, size and composition including skills, technology and long-term product development.
Our Non-Executive knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and its committees Directors also have extensive listed company experience with a and make recommendations to the Board good understanding of investor relations, financing, reporting and giving consideration and formulating plans for succession planning regulatory issues.
for directors and senior executives evaluating any conflicts of interest that the directors may have The appointment of Irene Dorner, who has extensive risk reviewing the Boards diversity policy management and international experience, will be a strong reporting to the Board on the Companys corporate governance practices addition to our Board.
We are particularly pleased that she will be and procedures to ensure they, and their development and joining our Safety and Ethics Committee, as well as the Nominations implementation, remain appropriate for a group of the size and and Governance Committee, from the date of her appointment.
complexity of Rolls-Royce and reflect best practice principles overseeing induction plans for directors We are satisfied with the current composition of the Board reviewing the results of the annual board performance evaluation although the Chairman and the committee will, of course, reviewing the independence of the Non-Executive Directors regularly review membership of the Board and ensure we continue conducting an annual evaluation of the Chief Executive to have the requisite skills and experience as our markets and product mix develop.
The terms of reference for the committee were reviewed during the year and can be accessed on the website.
64 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report We have seen increased levels of diversity in both our early career The recruitment processes are formal, rigorous and transparent.
Job and high potential pool and, as I detailed in my introduction on specifications are drawn up for all new appointments against which page 12, graduate intake for women has increased.
Recommendations are made to the Board who consider and approve appointments.
We were pleased to note Independent Audits findings: the directors feel that EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT BY GENDER BOARD MEMBERS BY GENDER the recruitment processes have been sufficiently transparent, inclusive, and that the director succession plans are well-structured Male 46,100 85% Male 11 79% and are discussed openly with the Board.
Female 8,000 15% Female 3 21% The committee discusses with the Chief Executive the senior executive positions and succession plans and this will continue to be a particular point of focus during 2015.
SENIOR MANAGERS BY GENDER Ruth Cairnie joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director with Male 168 93% effect from 1 September 2014.
Her strategic and international Female 12 7% experience and her roles in addressing technology and environmental challenges will enable her to make a significant contribution to Rolls-Royce.
MWM Consulting was engaged as the search consultants for a new Non-Executive Director with the particular skills required as set out in its brief, which resulted in Ruth Cairnies appointment.
MWM Consulting does not provide With the appointment of Ruth Cairnie, the proportion of female any other services to the Company.
Non-Executive Directors exceeds 25% 33% and in total 21% of the Board are female.
Although we have not set a fixed target we are David Smith joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect committed to maintaining the current level of women on the from 4 November 2014.
He was previously chief financial officer Board.
We continue to participate in the FTSE 100 Cross-Company for the Aerospace Division and has an exceptional track record as Mentoring Programme which aims to increase the number of a financial leader having held a number of senior positions at Ford eligible female candidates for UK board positions and we have and Jaguar Land Rover, and more recently as chief financial officer comprehensive programmes in place to increase the diversity at the technology group, Edwards.
The committee is also responsible for nominating appropriate We will continue to consider candidates for future Board individuals for membership of the Boards committees.
A number appointments from the widest possible pool and will only engage of changes were considered, recommended to the Board and executive search firms that have signed up to the Voluntary Code implemented as part of the governance review.
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms in relation to gender diversity on corporate boards.
DIVERSITY Increasing diversity is an important element of the changing In addition to the work described above, the committee also carried culture in Rolls-Royce.
The Board fully recognises and embraces the out the following: benefits of diversity throughout the Group at both Board and senior recommended the appointment of a new Senior Independent management levels as it brings a broader and more rounded Director: perspective to decision making.
Increasing diversity is an important renewed terms of office for Lewis Booth, Sir Frank Chapman element of the changing culture in Rolls-Royce.
and John Neill: considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors: A diverse workforce will help ensure our continued success as a considered the schedule of directors conflicts of interests and global business and contribute towards a better future.
We face recommended that the schedule be approved by the Board: challenges in increasing diversity throughout the Group but we are considered the proposal for a revised governance framework working with our leadership teams, championed by the ELT, to raise and recommended to the Board that it should be approved: awareness and to create a more inclusive workplace.
reviewed and revised the Non-Executive Directors induction programme: and reviewed its own terms of reference.
