Directors Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE THE BOARD This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code and the extent to The Board believes that good corporate governance is not just which the Company complied with the provisions of the Code a matter of compliance: it should be contributing to the Groups during the year.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial performance by making sure we have a clear strategic direction, Reporting Councils website www.
uk manage our risks to the right level and keep the business under control.
A clearly defined framework of roles and responsibilities The Board considers that the Company complied in all material has been agreed and this has been fully reviewed during 2014. respects with the Code for the whole of the year to 31 December 2014.
The Board has agreed that arrangements by which staff may The powers of the directors are set out in the Companys Articles raise concerns in confidence are considered and reviewed by the of Association the Articles, which are available on the Groups Safety and Ethics Committee.
Matters relating to financial website.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution.
In reporting, the integrity of financial management or fraud are also addition the directors have responsibilities and duties under reported to the Audit Committee.
legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006.
The Audit Committee has considered the requirement to put the The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, audit out to tender every ten years.
In line with the FRCs transitional generally being those items which affect the shape and risk profile arrangements, the committee will do so during the tenure of the of the Group, as well as items such as the annual budget and current lead partner which expires in 2017.
More detail can be performance targets, the financial statements, payments to found in the Audit Committee report on page 73. shareholders, major capital investments, substantial changes to balance sheet management policy and the strategic plan.
The GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK FROM JANUARY 2015 schedule of reserved matters was reviewed during the year as part of the governance review and is available on the Groups website.
CHAIRMAN BOARD MEETINGS The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
In 2014, the Board met 11 times, of which nine meetings were scheduled and two were unscheduled supplementary meetings.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS AND We are very conscious of the need to provide directors with the GOVERNANCE information they need to be effective.
We send out papers well in COMMITTEE advance of meetings to help directors prepare.
We keep the content SAFETY AND ETHICS THE BOARD COMMITTEE and structure of papers under review to help make sure that they communicate the main issues clearly.
This years board review has AUDIT COMMITTEE highlighted some changes that would help in maintaining the SCIENCE AND Boards focus on the main strategic issues so we will be looking to TECHNOLOGY develop some aspects of the board papers during 2015.
The review COMMITTEE confirmed that the directors are satisfied with the fullness of the papers and managements commitment to transparency but we CHIEF EXECUTIVE recognise that more can be done to enhance the presentation of trends and key performance indicators.
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM committees on which they sit and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as directors.
If directors are unable to attend a meeting, their comments on the board papers are discussed in advance with the Chairman so that their contribution can be included in the wider board discussion.
Details of attendance by directors at board meetings during 2014 are set out in the table overleaf and attendance at committee meetings is set out within the reports on pages 64, 66, 69 and 74.
59 Directors Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Members Attendance in 2014 THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Ian Davis Chairman 9 9 Lewis Booth CBE John Rishton 9 9 Responsibilities Dame Helen Alexander 7 9 providing a sounding board for the Chairman Lewis Booth CBE 9 9 being available to major shareholders if they have concerns which have Ruth Cairnie appointed 1 September 2014 3 3 not been resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Sir Frank Chapman 9 9 Executive or other Executive Directors Iain Conn retired 1 May 2014 4 4 conducting an annual review of the performance of the Chairman Warren East CBE 9 9 James Guyette 9 9 THE COMPANY SECRETARY Lee Hsien Yang 8 9 Pamela Coles John McAdam 9 9 All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
She acts as Secretary to the Board and its committees.
Mark Morris left 4 November 2014 7 7 John Neill CBE 9 9 Responsibilities Colin Smith CBE 9 9 ensuring compliance with board procedures and corporate governance David Smith appointed 4 November 2014 2 2 administering the process for directors to access external independent Jasmin Staiblin 9 9 advice at the Companys expense assisting the Nominations and Governance Committee with plans for directors induction and ongoing training BOARD COMPOSITION ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors and nine Non-Executive Directors.
The guiding principles, agreed by the Board, to govern the Details of the Board are set out on pages 54 and 55.
Details of the relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Executive Directors service contracts, or letters of appointment in are contained within the governance framework available the case of Non-Executive Directors, are on page 80.
Details of their on the Groups website.
remuneration and share interests are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 84.
INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board conducts a rigorous review of the independence of the KEY ROLES Non-Executive Directors every year, based on the criteria in the The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Code.
This review was undertaken in November 2014 and the Board Director and Company Secretary are set out in writing and have concluded that all the Non-Executive Directors remained been agreed by the Board.
independent in character and judgement.
THE CHAIRMAN The Code does not consider the test of independence to be Ian Davis appropriate to the chairman of a company.
However, Ian Davis Responsibilities did meet the Codes independence criteria upon his appointment effective running of the Board and its committees in accordance with as Chairman in May 2013.
His other external commitments are the highest standards of corporate governance described on page 54. setting the Board agenda managing the Board to ensure adequate time for discussion of all agenda CONFLICTS OF INTEREST items Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company unless that situational THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE conflict has been authorised by the Board.
The Nominations John Rishton Committee reviewed and authorised all directors situational Responsibilities conflicts and has agreed, that while directors are required to keep overseeing the day-to-day operation of the Companys business confidential all Company information, they shall not be required to developing and implementing the Companys strategy as approved share with the Company confidential information received by them by the Board from a third party which is the subject of the situational conflict.
establishing and maintaining formal and appropriate delegations of authority maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman 60 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report APPOINTMENTS AND RE-APPOINTMENTS In addition to its routine business, matters considered by the Board A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during the in 2014 included: selection and subsequent appointment of new directors.
Each director stands for re-appointment at each AGM.
Non-Executive Directors an update by Lord Gold on his interim report on ethical issues: terms of office will be terminated without compensation if they fail the proposed acquisition of Wrtsil: to be re-elected see page 91 for further information.
Non-Executive discussions with FRC over accounting for risk and revenue sharing Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which arrangements RRSAs : may be extended with the agreement of the Board, although our relationship and strategy with major airframe customers: re-appointment is not automatic.
A rigorous review is undertaken, the sale of our Energy gas turbines and compressor business taking account of their performance and ability to contribute to the to Siemens: Board in the light of the knowledge, skills, experience and diversity the 1 billion share buyback: required, when considering extending a term for a Non-Executive a proposal to provide engines for the Airbus A330neo: Director beyond six years.
For 2014, this has consisted of face-to-face feedback from investor days held during the year: discussions between the Chairman and each director, taking into renewal of 2.75 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme: account observations arising from the external board review.
the Board external evaluation report and actions to be taken: the revised corporate governance framework: EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM ELT management succession issues: and The ELT is the senior decision-making executive committee and is the integration of Power Systems.
chaired by the Chief Executive.
Its membership is shown on page 57.
During the year it developed detailed strategic options for the Board BOARD EVALUATION to consider.
It also reviewed HS&E performance, customer relations, The Board and its committees undertake an annual evaluation governance, principal risks, financial and operational performance as of their performance, which is conducted by external consultants well as acquisitions and disposals during the year.
at least once every three years.
In 2014, the evaluation was conducted by Independent Audit who do not have any other The ELT assists the Board in determining the nature and extent of the connection to the Company.
principal risks as described on page 50.
Independent Audit reviewed a years worth of board and committee DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE papers and interviewed all directors and others who have In accordance with the Articles, and to the extent permitted by law, significant interaction with the Board and its committees including the Company has entered into separate deeds of indemnity with its the external auditors and our remuneration advisors.
They also directors, which were in force during the financial year and remain in observed meetings of the Board and committees.
The final report force at the date of this report.
The Company also maintains directors was discussed in detail by the Board at a board dinner and with and officers liability insurance cover for its directors and officers.
This Independent Audit during a full discussion at a board meeting.
cover also extends to directors of subsidiary companies.
Follow-up meetings with individual committee chairmen, the Company Secretary and other senior management are underway.
THE WORK OF THE BOARD At each scheduled meeting, Executive Directors supplied reports The review concluded that we benefit from a strong Board which on business and financial performance including the approval of works well as a team of directors and enjoys a constructive and financial statements and budgets.
The Board also received regular open relationship with management.
Numerous positive points updates on HS&E, employee and legal issues and conducted a were noted and particular emphasis was put on the changes that review of its governance arrangements.
The chairman of each of have already been made to introduce new directors who bring the board committees provided verbal reports on matters discussed fresh perspectives and different experience to the Board, and by that committee since the previous board meeting.
to encourage lively debate at meetings.
In September 2014, the Board held its annual strategy meeting.
We focused on areas of particular importance and immediacy including our human resource strategy and our approach to strengthening our technology infrastructure and exploiting technological developments.
61 Directors Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There is always scope for improvement so we have taken into business.
During the year, some of the Non-Executive Directors account Independent Audits recommendations and during visited sites in the UK at Derby and Bristol, lesund in Norway and 2015 will be implementing a number of changes in emphasis, our Crosspointe facility in the US.
We are reviewing the programme which include: for 2015 to make sure that all directors have opportunities to visit our operations.
reaffirming our strategy and business model for the Land & Sea Division: Further training is available for all the directors, including making sure our agendas are managed actively to reflect presentations by the executive team on particular aspects our priorities: of the business.
In addition, there is a procedure for directors enhancing the board information to make sure it is more to take independent professional advice at the Companys explicitly tied into our strategic priorities and objectives: expense and every director has access to the Company Secretary.
monitoring and guiding managements programme for enhancing our management information: FINANCIAL REPORTING ensuring that our investor communications are at the right level: The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual driving through the human resource and executive development budget approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are programmes: and reported at least quarterly.
Actual results, at both a business and making sure that our risk management and internal control Group level, are reported monthly against budget and variances are frameworks are meeting our business and governance needs.
The new Chief Financial Officer is undertaking an in-depth review of our management reporting and budgeting The committees work was reviewed and this confirmed that all processes to ensure that they fully provide what we need, taking committees are providing effective support to the Board.
Areas for into account the size and shape of the Group and the structure further development are noted in the individual committee reports.
The evaluation of the Chairman was carried out by Lewis Booth, Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that Senior Independent Director, who sought the individual views their routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that of each of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, particularly results are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
given that this was the Chairmans first full year in the role.
All the In addition, for annual reporting, business presidents and finance directors, with the exception of the Chairman, then met in directors are required to confirm that their business has complied December 2014 to discuss the feedback and Lewis Booth with the Groups finance manual.
subsequently met with the Chairman to discuss the outcome.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board unanimously agreed that the Chairmans performance The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather had been very strong and that he had established himself in the than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives for the role very effectively.
The Chairmans engagement across the entire Groups subsidiaries not including joint ventures and associates and spectrum of the Group was notable, and he has developed strong can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against working relationships with both the Non-Executive and Executive material misstatement or loss.
Directors while being very effective in introducing new directors onto the Board.
The Board will continue routinely to challenge management in order to ensure that the system of internal control is constantly improving BOARD DEVELOPMENT and remains fit for purpose.
A major review of our risk management Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction framework has been conducted over the past year and programme, facilitated by the Company Secretary, and receive implementation is now underway.
The Board, with the advice a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems on the Group.
of internal control for the year under review and to the date of this report.
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee We recognised last year that our induction programme needed report on page 71. further development and we were pleased to note that the new directors informed the external reviewers that they were very The Board confirms that the Group continues to be compliant satisfied with the support they received.
Details of the Groups approach to risk management are set out on pages 50 to 53.
We are working on our This thorough introduction for new directors includes meetings approach to meeting the new standards introduced in September with a range of management.
Visits by board members to our 2014 by the FRCs changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
operating sites are also an important part of both induction and continuing education, to ensure that directors understand our business through direct experience of operating processes and discussions with employees at different levels throughout the 62 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company intends to send the AGM notice and any relevant related INVESTOR RELATIONS papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining The AGM notice will be available to view on the Groups website.
an effective investor communication programme.
It is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on a number A poll is conducted on each resolution at all Company general of key matters affecting the Group.
We recognise that, at certain meetings.
All shareholders have the opportunity to cast their votes points over the past year, our communications might have been more in respect of proposed resolutions by proxy, either electronically effective and so we are now undertaking a full review of the processes or by post.
Following the AGM, the voting results for each resolution underpinning our investor communications and relations.
are published and are available on our website.
A dedicated Investor Relations department, that reports to the Chief Shareholders unable to attend the AGM can vote on the business Financial Officer, conducts an investor relations programme with of the meeting either by post or online.
institutional investors which includes formal events during the year, as well as a regular series of one-to-one and group meetings.
The At the 2015 AGM, a special resolution is being proposed to amend purpose of these events is to highlight particular issues, themes or the Articles by increasing the directors powers to incur borrowings announcements that the Group believes warrant further explanation as set out in Article 130 from 3 billion to 5 billion.
The current fixed or clarification.
The events also provide opportunities for shareholders limit was introduced in 2004.
The Company has grown very to meet members of the senior management team to discuss topics significantly over the last decade in terms of market capitalisation, of interest.
Examples of these events in 2014 were: the full and revenue, order book and global operational scale.
The Board considers half-year results announcements: the AGM: a capital markets day held it commercially prudent and timely to refresh the borrowing limit.
in June to discuss our strategy and contract accounting: visits to the This will create additional flexibility for the Company to respond Groups sites: a Marine capital markets day in lesund: and industry to any future needs of the business.
The one-to-one and group meetings provide additional borrowing is already limited by existing internal controls, the need context around the Groups business strategy and financial to maintain a favourable credit rating, the limits contained in the performance such that shareholders are able to consistently and fairly financial covenants in the Groups committed borrowing facilities value the Groups businesses.
and the principles of sound corporate governance.
The adoption of the higher limit will not materially change the Companys Lewis Booth, the Senior Independent Director, is available to major borrowing policy and the Board believes it to be in the best shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal commercial interests of the Group.
channels has either failed to resolve or is deemed inappropriate.
Since his appointment as Senior Independent Director in May 2014, Lewis INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE DIRECTORS REPORT Booth attended the June capital markets day in London and the Certain additional information that fulfils the requirements of the October Marine capital markets day in lesund, both of which allowed Corporate Governance Statement can be found in the section headed him to engage directly with investors and analysts.
Other Statutory Information on page 162 and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance Report by reference.
The Groups website contains up-to-date information for shareholders which includes an online version of the Annual Report, share price information, news releases, presentations to the investment community and information on shareholder services.
It also contains factual data about the Groups businesses, products and services.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM All holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the Chairman and Chief Executive present a review of the key business developments during the year.
This years AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday, 8 May 2015 at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Shareholders can ask questions of the Board on the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and the running of the Company generally.
All directors are invited to attend each AGM.
Unless unforeseen circumstances arise, all committee chairmen will be present to take questions at the AGM.
