JOHN NICHOLAS CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Peter was appointed as Chief Executive of Roger has been a non-executive director of Rotork plc in 2008.
He joined Rotork in 1989 as an Rotork since joining the Board and became John was appointed as Senior Independent Inside Sales Engineer.
In 1998, he was appointed non-executive Chairman in November 1998.
Director of Rotork plc on 20 June 2014.
Formerly, Director and General Manager at Rotork He previously held CEO roles in automotive and John was Group Finance Director of Tate & Lyle Singapore before becoming Managing Director engineering businesses.
of the Fluid Systems Division and then Chief APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Operating Officer.
1988 2008 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 2006 Chairman of Hydro International plc Chairman of Diploma plc EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Non-executive director of Mondi plc COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Chairman of the Bath Education Trust Non-executive director of Hunting plc Nomination Chairman Member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP of the Financial Reporting Council FRC Nomination COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 4.
SALLY JAMES NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Gary previously held senior management Sally previously held senior legal roles in investment positions, including sales and marketing roles, at banking in London and Chicago including Managing IBM and BT Group plc and was a non-executive Director and EMEA General Counsel for UBS director of Chloride Group plc.
She has also held the position of recently held the position of President of Logica Bursar of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
UK until October 2012 and was a member of the APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Executive Committee of Logica plc.
3 1 2012 2 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 2010 Non-executive director of UBS Limited EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Non-executive director of Towry Limited 5 4 Founder and CEO of Catquin Ltd Non-executive director of Moneysupermarket.
Chairman of New Model Identity Ltd com Group plc Non-executive director of Abdi Limited COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Trustee of Legal Education Foundation Remuneration Chairman COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit and Nomination Audit Chair, Remuneration and Nomination 52 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information 6.
MARTIN LAMB NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR PRESIDENT OF ROTORK CONTROLS INC. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Lucinda is a Chartered Accountant with over Bob was appointed President of Rotork Controls Martin has an engineering background and 20 years of industry experience and has held a Inc. in 1988 and has responsibility for all Rotorks worked for IMI for over 33 years, where he held a range of finance roles in the real estate industry.
He joined Rotork number of senior management roles.
He served Lucinda has served on the board of The British Controls Inc. in 1978 as Engineering Manager on the IMI plc board from 1996 until May 2014 Land Company plc since March 2011 and subsequently becoming Vice President, and held the position of Chief Executive of IMI plc became Finance Director in May 2011.
Prior to joining Rotork, Bob worked from 2001 to 2013. for Westinghouse in the USA as a Design APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Engineer in the Nuclear Valve Group.
2014 2014 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 2001 Finance Director of The British Land Company plc Chairman of Evoqua Water Technologies LLC Senior independent director of Severn Trent plc COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Non-executive director of Mercia Technologies plc Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Member of the European Advisory Board of AEA Investors UK Ltd COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 9.
GRAHAM OGDEN FINANCE DIRECTOR RESEARCH AND Audit, Nomination and Remuneration DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR Jonathan joined Rotork in 2002 after holding a number of finance positions in listed companies.
Graham has been with Rotork since 1985 He gained experience of the Rotork business and has been closely involved in product initially as Group Financial Controller and then as development including our award winning Finance Director of the Rotork Controls Division IQ series.
Graham has been Research and and in 2010 was appointed Group Finance Development Director since 1997.
6 7 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD 2005 2010 9 10 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The continuing success of Rotork, our reputation in its markets and our relationships with our stakeholders is dependent on and safeguarded Statement from Chairman by the leadership provided by an effective board.
Good corporate governance supports the effectiveness of your board and contributes towards the long-term success of our company.
Our corporate governance report is set out on pages 54 to 63 and describes the roles, accountabilities and expectations for our directors and Board structures.
We are subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and whilst ensuring we provide detailed reporting, we have sought to place emphasis on explaining how the principles of the Code are applied across our Group.
A summary of the business the Board considered during 2014 is also set out opposite.
I am pleased to report that throughout 2014, the Company complied with the Code in all respects.
Corporate governance highlights for 2014 include the progressive refreshing of the Board and its Committees by the appointment of two new independent non-executive directors, LM Bell and MJ Lamb and change in the roles of JE Nicholas Roger Lockwood Senior Independent Director and SA James Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee, which followed the retirement of IG King from the Board.
Throughout the year, the Nomination Committee has held a number of additional meetings to consider Board composition and succession planning and, in particular, recommending to the Board the appointment of two new independent non-executive directors and a new Chairman.
The Audit Committee conducted a tender for the appointment of our external auditor and, following this process, appointed Deloitte LLP on 2 June 2014 as the Groups external auditors, replacing KPMG Audit plc.
I believe that good corporate governance, when properly applied, supports and protects our business and its long term success by creating a link, based on trust and engagement, between Rotork and its stakeholders.
It is important for governance to focus on and resonate throughout the entire organisation and at Rotork we seek to apply it across our activities worldwide in a consistent and unified way to create and maintain the right culture throughout our Group.
I believe this allows us to produce a better business.
Rotorks products and services are offered in many markets and territories and we recognise that our business activities affect a diverse range of stakeholders.
With that in mind, we must ensure that we consistently do things the right way through a unified approach.
Our corporate governance arrangements underpin this by ensuring that our people know not just what to do, but how to do it.
54 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Summary of 2014 Board Business February Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
Approval of the overall level of insurance for the Group.
Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the 2013 financial statements for presentation to the shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Consideration of the 2013 financial statements and potential final dividend amount.
Receipt of a presentation from the Chief Executive and Finance Director of the preliminary announcement of the 2013 financial results.
Presentation from the Group Human Resources Director, Group Operations Director and Group Legal Director on Corporate Social Responsibility.
March Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
Presentations from the Group Business Development Director and Group Research and Development Director.
April Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the Interim Management Statement.
2 meetings Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
Consideration of the AGM proxy returns and reports and consideration of the AGM arrangements.
Review of Third Annual Review of Women on Boards report by Lord Davies.
Presentation by Divisional Managing Director of Rotork Fluid Systems.
May Approval of appointment of MJ Lamb as a non-executive director, following a Nomination Committee recommendation.
Approval of JE Nicholas as Senior Independent Director and SA James as Audit Committee Chairman.
Approval of appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor from 2 June 2014, following an Audit Committee recommendation.
June Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
meeting held Investor relations report from Chief Executive and report from Chairman on meeting with institutional investors.
at Rotorks plant Discussion of the half year interim dividend.
in Winston-Salem, Group Risk Review.
USA Group strategy presentation by Chief Executive and Board discussion on strategy.
Presentation from the Divisional Managing Director of Rotork Instruments and local management.
July Approval of appointment of LM Bell as a non-executive director, following a Nomination Committee recommendation.
August Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
Receipt of a presentation from the Chief Executive and Finance Director of the half year results.
Consideration and approval of half year report and consideration of interim dividend.
September Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
meeting held at Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
Rotorks plant in Consideration of legal and corporate governance developments.
Leeds, UK Presentation from the Divisional Managing Director of Rotork Gears.
November Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the Interim Management Statement.
Consideration and approval of revised employment of former employees of the external auditor policy.
Consideration of legal and corporate governance developments, including the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
Presentations from the Divisional Managing Director of Rotork Controls and the Managing Director of Rotork Site Services.
December Performance and business review including review of prospective acquisitions.
Discussion of potential 2014 final dividend amount.
Review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
Consideration of corporate governance developments.
Consideration of board performance evaluation.
Approval of Directors situational conflicts of interests disclosures.
Review of risk management and internal control systems including consideration of the Boards additional responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and associated guidance.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 55 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2014: The following section on pages 56 to 63 is a summary of the system of Audit Remuneration Nomination corporate governance adopted by Rotork.
Throughout the year ended Board Committee Committee Committee 31 December 2014, Rotork plc fully complied with the UK Corporate No.
of meetings 12 6 3 4 Governance Code the Code.
The Code is available to download at i RH Arnold 12 3 N A N A www.
i JM Davis 12 6 N A N A i i PI France 12 6 3 4 The Board of Directors i GM Ogden 11 3 N A N A The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of Rotork for its ii LM Bell 2 1 1 0 shareholders: accomplished by entrepreneurial leadership, within a GB Bullard 11 6 3 4 framework of prudent and effective controls.
Its role therefore includes SA James 12 6 3 4 approval of strategy, risk reviews, finance matters and internal control and iii IG King 5 3 1 1 risk management including major contract approvals.
iv v MJ Lamb 5 3 2 1 RC Lockwood 12 6 3 4 The terms and conditions of appointment of directors are available for JE Nicholas 12 6 3 4 inspection during business hours at the registered office of Rotork plc and i By invitation at the AGM.
ii LM Bell was appointed to the Board on 10 July 2014 iii IG King retired from the Board on 20 June 2014 Board Composition iv MJ Lamb was appointed to the Board on 2 June 2014 Rotork is led by an effective Board which consists of ten members: v MJ Lamb did not attend November Nomination Committee meeting where he was theChairman, five independent non-executive directors and four being considered as a candidate for the upcoming Chairman vacancy executive directors.
Apart from the Chairman, all non-executive directors are considered to be independent from Rotork and are appointed for an Roles and Responsibilities initial term of three years.
Upon the completion of this term, the There is a documented clear division of responsibilities between the appointment is reviewed and, if appropriate, extended for up to a further Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that there is a balance two three year terms following which the director normallyretires.
ofpower and authority between leadership of the Board and executiveleadership.
The biographies of the directors and details of Board committee membership are set out on pages 52 to 53.
All directors are entitled to seek independent, professional advice at the Companys expense in order to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
All directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in line with Rotork maintains appropriate directors and officers insurance cover.
How the Board Operates Effectively LENGTH OF TENURE OF INDEPENDENT Board Activities NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS As part of Rotorks Board effectiveness, day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Company is delegated to executive management.
However, AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 there are a number of matters where it is not considered appropriate to do this.
The Board therefore has a formal and documented schedule of 0 3 years matters reserved for its decision whichincludes: Approval of Group strategy: Major capital projects and major contracts approval: Acquisition and disposal of any company, business or fixed asset in 3 6 years excess of agreed levels: Changes to Group corporate, capital, management or control structures or listing status: Approval of preliminary announcements and results, annual report, 6 9 years dividends and significant changes in accountancy policies and procedures and treasury policy: Approval of bank borrowings exceeding a certain percentage of the relevant companys turnover: BALANCE OF INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Undertaking an annual assessment of the Group risk control process: DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Making appointments and removals following Nomination Committee AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 recommendations and changing the size and composition of the Board: Succession planning: Determining membership and chairmanship of Board Committees: Non-Executive Chairman Appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor following Audit Committee recommendation : Approval of all resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put to the shareholders at a general meeting and the annual report: Independent Non-Executive Approval of auditor, brokers and principal corporate finance adviser: Directors Prosecution, defence or settlement of any material litigation: Approval of overall levels of insurance for the Group: and Major changes to the Groups pension schemes.
Executive Directors In 2014, the Board met 10 times at scheduled meetings and twice at additional meetings.
56 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board agenda and all relevant information is circulated to the Board directors sufficiently in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary discuss the agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and the Chairman and Chief Executive hold a review meeting ahead of each Board meeting.
At least once annually, the Board travels to and meets at one of Rotorks locations other than its head office in Bath.
This allows the Board, and in particular the non-executive directors, the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of overseas businesses and their markets and to interact with local management and staff, as well as to view new capital investments and acquisitions.
In 2014, the Board visited Rotorks manufacturing facility in Winston-Salem USA and its new manufacturing plant in Leeds UK.
The Board met with and received presentations from local management.
Location of Board meetings 2014 Winston-Salem, USA 2014 Leeds, UK 2013 Lucca, Italy 2012 Chennai, India 2011 Houston, USA 2010 Bilbao, Spain All Board directors constructively challenge executive management at Board meetings and are entitled to unfettered access to information and management across the Group should they require it.
Rotorks executive directors understand the distinction between their roles as executive managers and as Board directors.
The Chairman facilitates discussion by ensuring that all Board members have the opportunity to fully contribute to all agenda items at Board meetings and he always seeks to obtain unanimous decisions while allowing sufficient time for discussion and then drawing discussions to a close in an orderly manner.
This means that a range of views are offered by both executive and non-executive directors, when the Board discusses any particular issue or topic.
Rotork Board members come from a variety of professional backgrounds including engineering, legal, accountancy and international sales and collectively possess significant managerial experience, as well as experience of being company directors of other public limited companies.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives presentations from senior management regarding that senior managers area of responsibility.
The Board has the opportunity to ask questions to senior management following their presentations.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director present to the Board the content of preliminary and half year results announcements and the Board is invited to comment on and approve those announcements.
The performance of the Board is enhanced by the good working relationship between the Chief Executive and the Chairman who continue to work together to ensure that the best use of the time and talents of the Board are applied at Board meetings.
Induction and Development New Board members receive a suitable and tailored induction.
This is facilitated by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman.
In 2014 LM Bell and MJ Lamb were appointed as independent non-executive directors.
They both received a suitable induction which in addition to documentary content included arrangements for product training as well as visits to various Rotork sites and meetings with management.
Directors are encouraged to continually update their professional skills and knowledge.
During 2014, development and induction activities for the directors included participation in external training seminars covering accounting and corporate governance developments and internal Rotork related training.
The Chairman is responsible for reviewing the level and nature of training given to the Board of directors at least annually.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 57 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The system covers controls which enable Rotork to respond appropriately Performance Evaluations to financial, operational, compliance and any other risks.
The system During 2014 the Board undertook a detailed review of its performance, accords with the Turnbull Guidance, Internal ControlGuidance for based on a written questionnaire which was designed after consultation Directors on the Combined Code, and key elements include: with the Chairman and Company Secretary by Vivienne Cassley of Useful Robust assurance processes and controls over financial Thinking, an independent external consultancy, who also provided an reportingprocedures: analysis on theresponses.
A formal schedule of reserved matters for the Board including responsibility for reviewing Group strategy: The feedback from the review was positive and the Board is satisfied that Clearly defined levels of authority and a division of responsibilities progress continues to be made as the Group expands.
Although the throughout the Group: structure of the Board has changed during the past two years, the level of Formal documentation procedures: trust and respect between members remains high, and there is a spirit of A formal whistleblowing policy with an external whistleblowing hotline: constructive challenge.
and An internal audit function made up of accountants from head office The review considered matters raised in 2013, and identified progress in and across subsidiaries supported by training in internal audit, best most areas.
For example, during 2014 the processes governing internal practice and control procedures to monitor and identify weaknesses in controls were further strengthened and the Boards diversity was further internal controls.
All members of the Board receive full Audit Committee papers and prior Board members identified key areas for focus in 2015, including: meeting minutes.
Additionally, the Audit Committee Chairman briefs the Ensuring that new organisational structures across the Group are well Board on the main business of the previous Audit Committee meeting as implemented and supported: well as making recommendations from the Audit Committee to the Board.
Accelerating organic growth: and Board members therefore receive information and updates on the work of A continued focus on longer term strategy.
the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems throughout the year.
The JE Nicholas is the current Senior Independent Director.
As part of his role, Board then carries out its review of the system of internal control.
he annually arranges a meeting of the non-executive directors to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This feedback is used by him to discuss with There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Chairman his performance.
the significant risks faced by Rotork, details of which can be found on pages 36 to 39.
Diversity on the Board Rotork recognises the benefits that gender diversity can bring to the The Group continually learns from its experiences with internal controls Boardroom and to the Group as a whole.
Having met its first published and risk management which serves to further enhance the robustness of target of achieving 25% female representation in its independent the internal controls and risk management in place around the Group.
In non-executive directorate in 2012, Rotork responded to Lord Davies call 2014, the annual review of the system of internal control identified no for action in the Second Annual Review of Women on Boards in 2013 by significant internal control failings or weaknesses.
announcing the future action it will take to improve diversity in senior management and throughout the organisation.
Rotork has made progress In 2014 the Board considered the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 towards its published targets.
Rotork has also published a diversity policy and the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, which covers diversity on the Board and throughout the organisation.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting both Details of this policy are set out in the report of the Nomination applicable to the Company from 1 January 2015 in order to comply with Committee on page 63. the revised requirements, including those related to internal controls and risk management, from the next financial year.
The Board has planned a Internal Controls and Risk Management workshop on internal control and risk management procedures in 2015 to The Board is cognisant of its responsibility to present a fair, balanced consider the Companys internal control and risk management and understandable assessment of the Companys position.
The procedures and the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code Board is responsible for Rotorks system of internal control and risk 2014 and associated guidance.
management and meets at least annually to review the effectiveness of it.
Internal control can only provide reasonable, not absolute, The Groups key risks change during the year under review and details of assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to processes to manage these risks, including the Boards approach to the manage the risks rather than remove them altogether.
significant risks the Group is willing to take, ie.
risk appetite, in achieving its specific objectives, can be found on pages 36 to 39.
58 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Relations with Shareholders Board Committees Communication with shareholders is a priority for Rotork and the The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Each Company maintains a regular dialogue with its major shareholders.
Rotork Committee has formal, written terms of reference which are available to recognises the value of the UK Stewardship Code.
In 2014 the Board, and download from the Rotork website at www.
com en investors in particular the Chief Executive and Finance Director, have met with the index committees.
All Board Committees have four independent shareholders in a number of ways including: non-executive directors within their composition.
The Group Company Hosting conference calls: Secretary advises and acts as Secretary to the Committees.
Hosting webcasts: Attending shareholder events: All Committees have authority to take external, independent professional Hosting investor site visits: advice at Rotorks expense for matters relating to the discharge of their Attending conferences: duties.
Hosting and participating in Roadshows: and Arranging ad hoc meetings with shareholders.
PLC Board The Chairman ensures that all directors are made aware of major RC Lockwood shareholder issues and concerns by ensuring the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive on meetings with analysts and fund managers as well as shareholders.
During 2014, the Chairman and Company Secretary met with institutional investors at the invitation of the Corporate Governance Director of a major Audit Nomination Remuneration shareholder to discuss various corporate governance issues after a Committee Committee Committee response to a letter from the Company Secretary on behalf of the Board SA James RC Lockwood GB Bullard seeking feedback on the level of contact they received from the Board and in particular the Chairman and the independent non-executive directors.
All responses received were positive and confirmed that the level of contact provided wassatisfactory.
Rotork makes constructive use of its AGM as an opportunity for the Board to communicate with and answer questions from those shareholders who attend in person.
The entire Board is normally available during the meeting and for lunch following the meeting to allow direct interaction between its directors and the shareholders.
Rotork also maintains a comprehensive investor relations section on its website which provides a variety of resources for investors including current webcasts, presentations and press releases.
The website can be accessed at www.
Electronic communications are also used by Rotork to communicate with its shareholders.
All shareholders have been asked whether they would like to receive the Annual Report and Accounts in electronic form rather than in hard copy form.
Any shareholders wishing to receive corporate documents electronically can do this by registering for the service at www.
co. uk and clicking on Register under the Portfolio section.
Rotork also make available electronic proxy appointment for shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy online to vote at the Companys AGM.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit Committee Summary of 2014 Audit Committee Business Month Principal activities February Review of the full year accounts including material judgments and estimates, the draft Annual Report 2013, governance reports and draft results announcements.
Internal controls and risk management review including consideration of processes and procedures for risk management, effectiveness of internal controls and fraud risk.
SA James Review of internal audit reports, the internal audit Chairman programme, its remit, resourcing and effectiveness, and of Members: LM Bell, the need for a separate internal audit function.
GB Bullard, MJ Lamb, Consideration of and reporting to the Board on the JE Nicholas external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness including the annual audit.
The auditors During 2014, embracing its role of protecting the interests of representation letter, views on the control environment shareholders, the Committee focused on the integrity of the Groups and fraud risk management: and reappointment of the financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal and external audit.
external auditor, including whether it is appropriate to put The Committee conducted a tender for the external audit contract and, the external audit contract out to tender.
on 2 June 2014, following a robust review and tender process, the Board Meeting with the external auditor without the presence of appointed Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor, following a management.
During 2014, Chairmanship of the Consideration of accounting and corporate governance Committee changed and following JE Nicholas appointment as Senior developments.
Independent Director, SA James was appointed as Chairman of the Review of non-audit services undertaken by the Committee on 20 June 2014.
The Committee has also monitored changes externalauditor.
in governance requirements, including those relating to internal controls April Interim Management Statement review.
May Recommendation to the Board that Deloitte LLP be All Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
and JE Nicholas hold professional accounting qualifications and the Board August Review of the half year accounts including material considers both to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies judgments, estimates and draft results announcements.
of each member of the Committee can be found on pages 52 to 53.
The Internal controls and risk management review including Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, reviewing policies and procedures for preventing bribery internal audit co-ordinator and external auditor also regularly attend and corruption and consideration of significant internal meetings by invitation.
Review of external auditors report on the half year The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which are accounts and the proposed full year external audit scope, reviewed annually.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the key risks, materiality and year end issues.
Principal responsibilities are to review Review of non-audit services undertaken by the external and report to the Board on: auditor.
The integrity of financial reporting: Meeting with the external auditor without the presence of Significant accounting policies and judgements: management.
Internal control and risk management systems including monitoring Consideration of accounting and corporate governance the effectiveness of internal audit: developments.
The appointment, independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, including the policy relating to non-audit work and policy November Interim Management Statement review.
relating to employment of former staff of the external auditor: 2 meetings The external auditors remuneration: and Internal controls and risk management review including The whistleblowing policy.
key risks and mitigating controls: processes and procedures for risk management and consideration of Activities of the Audit Committee during the year significant internal audit reports.
The Committee met six times during the year.
A summary of its principal Review of the policy on employment of former audit staff activities is set out opposite: and policy on and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
Consideration of the external auditors fees, engagement letter and risk of them leaving the market.
Review of whistleblowing policy and hotline.
Annual review of Audit Committee effectiveness and Terms of Reference.
Consideration of accounting and corporate governance developments including the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and associated guidance.
Consideration of the Audit Committee Schedule of Work 2015.
60 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information prior year.
Deloitte explained the work that they have performed and Financial Reporting confirmed that based on this work no material inconsistencies or A key role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review misstatements were found.
Following discussion, the Committee was the quality and appropriateness of the half year and year end financial satisfied that the judgments that had been exercised and valuation statements with a particular focus on: methodology were appropriate and that the provisions were Accounting policies and practices: appropriately stated at year end.
The clarity of disclosures and compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards, UK company law and the UK Corporate External Auditor Governance Code: KPMG and its predecessor firms had been auditor to the Group for over Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or fifty years and during this time a tender had not been conducted.
During where there has been discussion with the external auditor: and 2013, the Committee considered how to achieve a high quality audit for Upon request of the Board, advising the Board on whether the annual the Group as a whole and decided to bring all external audit work under report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable one firm and considered it appropriate to offer all the external audit work and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the for tender.
The decision to tender also followed regulatory developments Companys performance as a whole.
relating to external audit tendering.
To assist the Committee, the Group Finance Director and Group Financial The Committee invited a number of external audit firms with the requisite Controller present a detailed report at each meeting outlining significant capability to tender for the external audit contract and the Audit matters and the external auditor presents a report on the work they have Committee consulted the Financial Reporting Councils Notes on Best undertaken on the half year and year end financial statements.
KPMG, being the Companys former external auditor, was not invited to tender.
Following the conclusion of the audit The principal matters of judgement considered by the Committee in tender process, Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external relation to the 2014 accounts and how they were addressed were: auditor on 2 June 2014 and will undertake all external audit work for the Goodwill impairment testing.
The year end balance sheet includes Group.
Deloittes continuing appointment will be subject to shareholder Goodwill of 149.7m, this represents approximately 25.9% of the approval at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee reviewed the carrying value of Goodwill by examining a report from the Group Financial Controller which set The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process, out the values attributable to each cash generating unit, the expected the scope of the Group audit and the quality of the audit work throughout value in use, based on projected cash flows and the key economic the year.
assumptions related to growth and discount rates.
The Committee also considered the work undertaken by Deloitte in testing the The assessment considers: assumptions.
The Committee discussed the appropriateness of the Any issues arising from the prior year audit: assumptions used and compared expected growth rates to historical The proposed audit plan including identification of risks specific to averages and the discount rate to the Group weighted average cost of Rotork, audit scope and materiality thresholds: capital and appropriate risk premiums.
The Committee also Staffing continuity and experience: considered whether it was possible that a reasonable change in The delivery of the audit in line with the plan: assumptions might indicate impairment.
Following discussion, the Matters arising during the audit and the communication of these to the Committee were satisfied that the approach taken by management Committee: was appropriate and that there was no requirement to record any Feedback from executive management: impairments in the accounts.
Private meetings with the auditor without management being present: The independence, objectivity and scepticism of the auditor: and Acquired intangible assets.
During 2014, the Group acquired three The Financial Reporting Council audit quality review report on selected businesses, the largest of these was Young Tech Co Ltd which was audits undertaken by Deloitte.
The Committee reviewed the accounting and reporting in relation to these acquisitions, in particular the Having completed this review, the Committee agreed that the audit determination and valuation of intangible assets prepared by the Group process, independence and quality were satisfactory.
The Committee considered this report together with comments from Deloitte: it also examined the disclosures in the Non-Audit Services report and accounts and concluded the judgements made were In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external reasonable and that the reporting was accurate.
auditor, the Board has adopted a policy on non-audit services which restricts the work and fees available to the external audit firm and the Retirement benefit schemes.
The Group operates two defined benefit policy is reviewed by the Committee annually to ensure it remains retirement plans which are still open to future accrual.
The valuations appropriate and in line with applicable requirements.
are prepared by independent actuaries and are reviewed by Deloitte.
The Committee considered the report and the comments by Deloitte The policy specifies certain activities which the external auditor may not and was satisfied the assumptions used were appropriate.
The undertake such as work relating to financial statements which may be detailed disclosure for these schemes under IAS19 are shown in note subject to external audits or management or significant involvement with 24 and the Committee is satisfied they are complete and accurate.
The Group has 81m of inventory which is For work within the policy scope, namely anything other than audit, half spread across all of the Groups global locations.
The provisions made year review or tax compliance work, authority has been delegated to the to write down slow-moving and obsolete inventory are based on an Finance Director to approve fees of up to 10,000 per project or 40,000 assessment of market developments and on an analysis of historic and in aggregate for general work, 50,000 in aggregate for tax work and projected usage.
The calculation of the provisions requires application 10,000 for acquisition related work.
Non-audit work above these levels of judgement by management.
Management confirmed to the requires the prior approval of the Committee Chairman or the Committee Committee that there have been no significant changes to the as a whole.
approach used to estimate inventory provisions compared with the ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61
