42 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report Principles Statement The Board recognises and fully supports the value of good corporate governance as an important factor in achieving its overall objectives.
In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority UK Listing Rules, a statement describing how the Company has applied the Main Principles contained in the June 2010 and September 2012 editions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk and the statements required by sections 7.1 and 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out in this report together with the Strategic report, Directors report, Audit Committee report and the Directors remuneration report.
Statement of Compliance The Company has complied with the provisions of the June 2010 and September 2012 editions of the Code throughout the period under review.
The following report, the Strategic report, the Directors remuneration report and the Audit committee report set out how the Company has complied with the Code.
Leadership The role of the Board The Board is principally concerned with the overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group in order to promote the success of the Group for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole within a framework of effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups strategic objectives, ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, reviews management performance and ensures that high ethical standards of behaviour are followed.
In its decision-making processes, the Board takes into account the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the interests of the Companys employees, relationships with suppliers and customers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment and maintaining the Companys reputation for high standards of business conduct.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: t approval of the Groups objectives, strategic plans and annual budgets: t authorisation of material acquisitions, disposals, capital investments, credit facilities, contracts and transactions: t approving changes to the Groups capital structure, listing and legal and organisational structure: t approval of financial reports, dividend policy and communication with shareholders and the market: t monitoring the Groups management, operating and financial performance: t review of risk assessments and the effectiveness of internal controls: t responsibility for Board membership and appointments, directors remuneration and contracts and remuneration policy: and t Group corporate governance and approval of Group policies.
Matters not specically reserved for the Board and the day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to management.
During the year under review, since the retirement of R J E Marsh as a director on 10 July 2013, the Board has consisted of six directors being a non-executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The names and biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The significant commitments outside the Group of the Chairman and non-executive directors are given in their biographies.
Changes to such commitments are reported to the Board as they arise.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 The Board meets at least six times each year.
In addition a meeting is held specically to discuss Group strategy.
Normally at least one meeting is combined with a visit to an operating unit and the opportunity to meet the local management team.
The directors review the frequency of meetings each year as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and attendance by their members is given in the table below.
Directors who are unable to attend a meeting receive the agenda and meeting papers and provide the Chairman with their comments before the meeting.
Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Year ended Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number 31 March 2014 meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended Non-executive directors J R P Pike 8822 n a n a n a n a I Haaijer 88225533 S Rojahn 88225533 M G Towers 88225533 Executive directors P R M Vervaat 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a S J Kesterton 8 8n a n an a n an a n a R J E Marsh 2 2 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 Number of meetings attended until R J E Marsh retired from the Board on 10 July 2013.
The main areas of business dealt with by the Board during the year other than routine matters included: t Comprehensive review and update of the Groups strategic plans resulting in the launch of the RPC Groups Vision 2020 Focused Growth strategy with the objectives to: continue growing organically in selected areas of the plastic packaging markets: selectively consolidate the fragmented European plastics packaging market: and establish a meaningful presence outside Europe.
t Approving the final phase of the Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme, including rationalising the manufacturing footprint with the mergerof operations in Sweden and closure of the site at Troyes in France, optimising the existing business portfolio including reorganisation of blow moulding and Bramlage-Wiko operations and divesting the non-core Offenburg trading disposables and Cobelplast sheet businesses.
t Monitoring the initial and final phases of Fitter for the Future including the closure of sites at Antwerp Belgium and Beuningen Netherlands and transfer ofbusiness to other sites during the year under review, the sale of redundant properties and cost efficiency restructuring at other operations in the Group.
t Approving a revised Group Health and Safety Policy.
Ensuring that health and safety remains a top priority for all employees of the Group, approving RPCs Safety Principles and reviewing plans for reinvigorating the approach to health and safety.
t Acquisition of the Maynard & Harris Group in the UK complementing RPCs position in the personal care market and expanding the Groups manufacturing facilities in the USA.
t Acquisition of Helioplast in Bosnia-Herzegovina extending the geographical reach of the Superfos cluster into the Balkans.
t Monitoring the risks faced by the Group including the macro-economic environment particularly in the UK and the Eurozone.
t Approving investment in capital projects including additional production facilities for single serve beverage system capsules in Germany, France and the UK and expansion of production in the USA.
44 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report continued Leadership continued Chairman and Chief Executive The non-executive Chairman of the Board is J R P Pike.
R J E Marsh was Chief Executive up to 30 April 2013.
On 1 May 2013 he stepped down and P R M Vervaat became Chief Executive in his place.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are clearly dened and set out in a written statement on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective running of the Board and its decision-making processes, for setting the highest standards of integrity and probity, for setting its agenda and the style and tone of Board discussions.
The role includes: t leading the Board in determining strategy and the achievement of the Groups objectives while ensuring that the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks associated with the implementation of its strategy: t creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness: t ensuring effective communication with shareholders and safeguarding their interests: t ensuring that directors keep their skill, knowledge and familiarity with the Group up-to-date: t regularly considering succession planning and the composition of the Board: and t ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day running of the Groups business, except for matters specically reserved for the Board.
The Board considered that on appointment, J R P Pike met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
In March 2014 Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc announced the appointment of J R P Pike as a non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2014 and its senior independent director with effect from 20 May 2014.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans external commitments do not interfere with the performance of his duties to the Company.
The Chairman held informal meetings with the non-executive directors during the year to discuss Board related matters without the executive directors present.
The role of non-executive directors The Company had three non-executive directors at the date of this report whose role, in addition to the general duties and responsibilities of directors, is to: t constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: t scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: t ensure the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: t determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, executive directors and in succession planning: t uphold high standards of integrity and probity and support the Chairman and the other directors in instilling the appropriate culture, values and behaviour in the boardroom and beyond: t insist on receiving high-quality information sufciently in advance of Board meetings: and t take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders where appropriate.
Senior Independent Director M G Towers was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders on request and to enable shareholders to voice any concerns that contact through the normal investor communication channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director provides support for the Chairman on Board matters.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors have met informally at least once during the year without the Chairman present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Board committees There are three principal Board committees all of which operate under written terms of reference which are available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website www.
The terms of reference, performance and membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are reviewed and, if appropriate, updated each year by the relevant committee and the Board.
Only members of a committee are entitled to attend meetings but each committee may invite other directors, managers or advisers to attend.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all three committees.
sufficient resources are provided to enable the committees to undertake their duties and they have authority to appoint independent professional advisers or consultants when required.
The Chairman of the relevant committee reports on the proceedings and any recommendations made at the subsequent Board meeting.
Directors indemnities and insurance cover The Board reviews the level of insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Groups directors and ofcers and senior management on an annual basis.
The Board has also provided indemnities to the directors which are described on page 68 of the Directors Report.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Eectiveness Board composition and independence Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, independent non-executive directors comprised at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The independent non-executive directors throughout the year were I Haaijer, S Rojahn and M G Towers.
The independent non-executive directors bring valuable knowledge, a broad range of experience and strong, independent character and judgement to the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considered that all these directors, including M G Towers, who since December 2009 holds a non-executive directorship in Tyman plc in common with J R P Pike, met the criteria for independence set out in provision B.
1.1 of the Code and there were no other relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The Nomination Committee reviews the size, composition and balance of the Board each year and recommends any changes for the directors to consider.
Despite its relatively small size, the Board comprises directors with a wide range of managerial and professional experience from accounting, finance and consultancy to manufacturing, engineering and personal care.
Between them the directors have experience of doing business in the UK, Europe and in the USA, South America, India and the Far East.
Two of the directors are Dutch nationals and one is German and there are both male and female members of the Board.
The Board has endorsed the policy on diversity, including gender, recommended by the Nomination Committee.
Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee and its Chairman are as follows: From To J R P Pike Chairman 23 July 2008 To date S Rojahn 25 May 2006 To date M G Towers 1 April 2009 To date I Haaijer 30 May 2012 To date The Committee meets at least twice each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance ofmembers of the Committee are shown in the table on page 43.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attended meetings by invitation.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: t review and make recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board: t give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior managers: t evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: t prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: t identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise: t annually review the time required from non-executive directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the Board and its committees: and t recommend the reappointment of non-executive directors and re-election of directors.
Each year the Committee reviews the Boards structure, size, composition and balance and the membership of Board committees.
It also reviews the performance of the Board, its committees and the individual directors, the independence of non-executive directors and time commitment required from them and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee considers plans for the succession of directors and senior managers including the identication of internal managers who may be suitable for more senior positions in due course with the appropriate development of skills and experience.
A review of the performance and potential of senior executives in key roles below the Group Board level was conducted during the year and the results considered by the Committee as part of its succession planning process for executives.
The Committee is responsible for recommendations for appointments, reappointments and re-election of directors.
Recommendations for reappointment and re-election are made following review of the directors performance and consideration of the need to progressively refresh the Board.
The Nomination Committee has considered the recommendations made by Lord Davies in his Report on Women on Boards, his subsequent updates and the amendments made to the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council on diversity on boards including gender.
Since the end of the period under review, a second female director, L Drummond, has been appointed bringing the proportion of women on the Board to 25% the minimum level recommended by Lord Davies for FTSE 250 companies.
The policy recommended by the Committee and endorsed by the Board is that the search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted and appointments made on the basis of merit and the most appropriate experience against objective criteria in the best interests of shareholders.
In selecting candidates due regard will be given to the benets of different nationalities, experience in a variety of business sectors and European and global markets and diversity on the Board including gender.
Although no target has been set for the number of women on the Board, consideration will be given to identifying senior female executives who might be suitable candidates to serve as non-executive directors on other company Boards.
46 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report continued Eectiveness continued On 1 October 2012, the Board received and accepted formal notication from R J E Marsh of his intention to retire with effect from 1 October 2013.
The Nomination Committee carefully considered the succession of the Chief Executive and concluded that the position would not be advertised externally and recommended that P R M Vervaat, who had five years experience of the business of the RPC Group and the appropriate knowledge and skills to full the role of Chief Executive of the Company, be appointed.
The Board approved the recommendation of the Committee.
In consultation with P R M Vervaat, the Committee appointed external search consultants, KORN FERRY Whitehead Mann and agreed a job description and attributes for the role of Group Finance Director.
The Committee drew on the financial expertise of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, M G Towers, who interviewed a shortlist of suitable potential candidates prepared by the consultants together with P R M Vervaat and put forward their recommendations to the Committee.
Following interviews by all members of the Nomination Committee S J Kesterton was selected and recommended, subject to appropriate due diligence, and the Board subsequently approved his appointment as Group Finance Director designate with effect from 1 April 2013.
R J E Marsh stepped down as Chief Executive on 1 May 2013 and remained on the Board until formally retiring as a director at the AGM on 10 July 2013.
P R M Vervaat acceded to the role of Chief Executive on 1 May 2013 and S J Kesterton became Group Finance Director on the same date.
Since the end of the year under review, the Committee has recommended and the Board has subsequently approved the appointment of two new non-executive directors, L Drummond and G S Wong to enhance the breadth of expertise and experience on the Board, to refresh the composition of the Board and to provide for the succession of non-executive directors.
Neither an external search consultant nor advertising were used to search for these particular candidates.
L Drummond was recommended by an external organisation.
Her experience in the pharmaceutical sector and in investment banking will be of great benefit to RPC as it aims to implement the Vision 2020 Focused Growth strategy including the development of the Groups pharmaceutical presence.
G S Wong was a director and business adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd and was introduced to RPC Groups management during the course of the acquisition process.
His knowledge of doing business in China and his broad international experience will help RPC in developing its presence outside Europe.
He ceased to be a director of Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd following the acquisition by RPC Group on 2 June 2014.
The Committee conducted appropriate due diligence and interviewed both candidates before recommending them for appointment.
A summary of their qualications and career histories is given in their biographies on page 41.
Prior to the date of this report, the Committee, with the Senior Independent Director, M G Towers, in the chair, has recommended and the Board has approved the reappointment of the Chairman J R P Pike, for a further three-year term commencing on 23 July 2014 following a review of his performance led by the Senior Independent Director, and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Boards policy is that all the directors should submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually.
The Committee has recommended and the Board has approved resolutions for the re-election of all of the current directors following reviews of their performance, and the election of the two new non-executive directors, L Drummond and G S Wong, at the forthcoming AGM.
KORN FERRY Whitehead Mann has no other connection with the Company other than as external search consultants to the Nomination Committee for the recruitment of the directors described above.
Appointment, election and re-election of directors The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending new appointments to the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all directors appointed to the Board, other than at the Annual General Meeting AGM, are required to retire at the following AGM when they may offer themselves for election: thereafter they must submit themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, all the directors in ofce at the date of this Report will submit themselves for election or re-election on an individual basis at the forthcoming AGM and annually thereafter.
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three years or less, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, but the Board may terminate their appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is responsible for the appointment or, subject to effective performance and commitment, reappointment of non-executive directors and setting their remuneration, which consists solely of directors fees.
A rigorous review of performance, taking into account the need for progressively refreshing the Board, is conducted when a non-executive director is proposed for reappointment on completion of two terms of three years.
Non-executive directors may not normally serve longer than nine years.
The Board has recently announced the appointment of two new non-executive directors with effect from 16 July 2014.
Biographical details are given on page41.
The reasons for their appointment are given in the section on the work of the Nomination Committee above and in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM on page 132.
L Drummond is considered independent by the Board, but due to his past association with Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd, G S Wong is not considered to be independent.
The directors are confident that their knowledge and experience will be valuable to the operation of the Board and since they will have been appointed after the last AGM the Board is recommending them for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Following the formal evaluation of each of the directors in ofce at the date of this Report, the Board recommends their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
All the non-executive directors in ofce at the date of this Report continue to be effective and demonstrate independence of character and judgement and commitment to the role.
Biographical details of all of the directors are given on page 40.
Further information on the contribution made by each director to the Board may be found in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM on pages 131 and 132.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving executive directors service contracts.
Details of these contracts are given in the Directors remuneration report.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and terms and conditions of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and at the AGM.
Information and professional development The Board is provided with relevant information on the activities of the Group in a timely manner and in a form and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
There is a procedure established for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
In addition, all Board members have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys role also includes ensuring good information ows within the Board and committees and between executive and non-executive directors and facilitating induction as required.
Newly appointed directors receive a formal induction tailored to the needs of the Group following good practice guidance.
On appointment directors receive information about the Group including the role of the Board and matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Boards committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures, the latest financial information about the Group, and training in the duties and responsibilities of directors of listed companies.
For non-executive directors, this is supplemented by meetings with executive directors and senior executives and visits to key locations with the opportunity to meet local management to assist in the process of learning about the business.
Throughout their period of ofce directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, corporate responsibility and sustainability matters and other changes affecting the Group, its markets, manufacturing processes and the industry.
All directors have access to training in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors keep their skills and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to date in order to full their roles on the Board and on Board committees.
The Company Secretary briefs the Board on corporate governance matters and relevant changes to corporate laws and regulations and facilitates professional development by regularly circulating details of and arranging attendance at seminars.
Executive directors also attend seminars on topics of particular relevance to their roles.
Performance evaluation The Board conducts an annual review of its performance and that of its Committees and the individual directors.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, the review was undertaken for the first time by an external facilitator, Independent Audit Limited, a rm of specialist board governance consultants.
The review conducted internally during the year ended 31 March 2014 was based on Independent Audits Thinking Board questionnaire platform, which was used to gather the views of the directors and certain key executives.
This provides a benchmark for year on year progress to be monitored.
The questionnaires used for the previous years evaluation were reviewed and some additional topics added.
The review covered key areas of Board and Committee performance including: i the Boards role: ii composition, skills and dynamics: iii the focus of the Boards work business drivers, strategy and risk: iv meetings: v information and decision making: and vi internal and external communications.
The Committee reviews considered their remit, membership, process and performance.
The Audit Committee review also included specic performance regarding financial reporting and audit.
The Board and Committee reviews were undertaken in December 2013 and January 2014 and the Company Secretary reported back the findings at the January Board meeting.
The overall assessment was that the Board and its Committees were performing well, and no high priority recommendations were made.
A number of actions were identied that should continue to improve the effectiveness of the Board including greater consideration of succession planning: greater engagement with the cluster managers including more frequent attendance at Board meetings: and greater involvement of non-executive directors outside Board meetings to add value to the business.
Progress on these matters will be periodically reviewed by the Board.
Drawing on the Board and Committee reviews and using individual director questionnaires the Chairman undertook a review of the performance of each of the directors.
The Senior Independent Director undertook a review of the performance of the Chairman after taking into account the views of all the directors.
The results of these individual reviews and any improvements or personal objectives were discussed with the relevant directors on a one to one basis.
The Board intends to engage an external facilitator again in two years time.
Next years review will be conducted internally, with the focus being on progress against the previous two years Thinking Board assessment and the areas identied for improvement in this years review.
Independent Audit Limited do not have any other connection with the Company.
48 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued Accountability Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details of key considerations in relation to the financial statements are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 63 to 66.
The number of meetings of the Committee and attendance are given on page 43.
Directors conicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict with the Companys interests a situational conict.
This is in addition to a duty to disclose any interest in an existing or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company a transactional conict.
In accordance with the Act, the Companys Articles of Association contain a provision giving directors who have no interest in the matter, authority to approve such situational conicts where appropriate.
A formal system and guidance for reporting any situational conicts of interest to the Chairman and Company Secretary has been established in addition to the existing duty to notify the Board of any transactional conicts.
Situational conicts are considered by those directors who have no interest in the matter and they may impose conditions on any authorisation given.
Situational conicts considered by the Board and any authorisation given are recorded in the Board minutes and a register of directors conicts of interest.
In addition to the notication and authorisation system, the register of directors conicts of interest is reviewed annually.
Remuneration Remuneration Committee and policy The members of the Remuneration Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details of remuneration policy and directors remuneration packages are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 62.
Relations with Shareholders Dialogue with shareholders The Company is committed to maintaining an effective dialogue with institutional and private investors.
Directors, normally the Chairman or Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, hold regular meetings with institutional investors at which the Companys past performance and strategy may be discussed.
The Board is provided with brokers reports, surveys on shareholders views and regular feedback from shareholder meetings.
During the year the Chairman has discussed the Companys governance and strategy with major shareholders and reported any issues or concerns raised at these meetings to the Board.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to attend meetings at their request.
Contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, brokers and the press is controlled and procedures are in place to ensure the proper disclosure of inside information in compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Code of Market Conduct.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
An individual resolution on each separate issue is proposed at the AGM including the Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders have the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and performance.
It is the Boards policy that all directors attend the AGM if at all possible and therefore in normal circumstances the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution and votes withheld are counted before the AGM and are made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on a show of hands.
A full breakdown of the voting results detailing the total number of votes for, against and votes withheld in respect of each resolution proposed is published after each AGM and general meeting.
