Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction As Group Chairman, I am reporting on how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied in our company.
This is the final year in which we will report against the version of UK Governance Code the Code published in September 2012 and from next year we will be benchmarked against the revised version of the Code published in September 2014.
During the year under review we have been fully compliant with the provisions of the current version of the Code and the report below explains this in detail, as well as the processes and disciplines to which the Board adheres.
In addition to meeting the specified requirements, I am satisfied that the Board is well informed and has a clear understanding of the challenges we face.
This, coupled with an open and cooperative style enables risks to be clearly identified and managed.
I have previously commented on the wide range of skills and experience that the members of our Board possess and the value we derive from this.
The year has inevitably brought its challenges, but all of our directors have contributed in different ways as we have navigated through them.
Whilst this has again been assisted by the stability of the Board over the year, Andrew Page has now joined the Board as a new Non-Executive Director.
Andrews achievement as Chief Executive and Finance Director of a successful public company as well as his previous experience in the City will, I believe, serve us well as we move forward.
The Board continues to examine the significant risks that we face and as part of this process the systems and controls necessary to manage these risks in a multi-national environment are reviewed and developed.
We continue to prioritise the health and safety of our employees and this subject is considered as the first item on the agenda at all of our meetings.
There was an overall reduction in reportable incidents during 2014.
As I remarked last year I believe that the Boards agenda continues to strike the right balance between strategy, priorities, performance and risk management.
Although operating independently the general activities of our Committees are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Notwithstanding this the Board Committees continue to operate independently and with the benefit of professional advice where required as they continue to work through the changing regulatory environment.
Having undertaken our first externally facilitated Board performance review in 2013, for the year under review we reverted to an internal review process.
This was managed by our Senior Independent Director who engaged with all of our directors on a range of issues relating to the structure and operation of the Board.
This process is referred to in the report below: although it is pleasing to note that no major issues arose.
We have also continued with our programme of Non-Executive Directors visiting operating companies and attending their Board meetings either in person or by video-link.
Although this fell away a little during 2014, I intend to ensure that the Non Executives resume a full programme this year as it provides a greater understanding of the Group and encourages well informed discussions at Board meetings.
I reported last year that the Chief Executive had indicated his intention to remain in office until at least until 2017.
The Nomination Committee is now actively engaged in more detailed planning to consider not only the position of Chief Executive but also across the Groups senior executive management as a whole.
This process is addressing both the timing and the sequencing of the proposed changes, as this is of critical importance for the future of the Group.
The revised segmentation that has now been adopted and the management structures around that will greatly assist in developing senior level talent.
A priority for 2015 is the bedding down of the new segment Boards.
I am confident that plans are developing to deal with anticipated senior level retirements over the next few years.
In the interim we continue to have agreed arrangements to deal with any emergency scenario.
As I have previously written, I hold the strong view that over planning accelerates unwanted change.
I will continue to keep shareholders informed in relation to this important topic.
During 2014 both Tracey Graham and Louise Charlton agreed to continue to serve for further three year terms.
Louise serves on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees whilst Tracey chairs our Remuneration Committee and serves on the Audit Committee.
John Bennett, who chairs the Audit Committee, completes 9 years as a NED at the 2015 AGM and in accordance with best practice will be retiring at that time.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank John for his very substantial contribution to the Board and the Company and, in particular, for the skill with which he has led the Audit Committee.
In accordance with best practice all our Directors both Executive and Non-Executive, including myself, will offer themselves for re-election at every AGM.
The success of our Group has been dependent on the endeavour and skills of the people we employ throughout the world.
I am pleased to thank them for their past contribution and have confidence that they will rise to the challenges ahead.
Brook Land Chairman 22 Report and Accounts 2014 Management & Governance Corporate Governance Committee The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group structure and organisation and evaluating these in the context of developments in standards of corporate governance.
The Committee keeps the Board and its other committees appraised of developments that may impact their structure and activities.
It also oversees the policies described in the Corporate Responsibility Statement and the Groups environmental policies.
The Committee consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is pleased to report that the Company complied with all provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year.
With effect from next year the Company will report against the revised version of the Code as published in September 2014.
Board Responsibilities The Board has a schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision, including: n determining the Groups overall strategy n the approval of significant acquisitions and disposals n the approval of annual targets and financial reporting including n the approval of policies and systems for risk management annual and half year results and interim and assurance management statements n the appointment of key advisers to the Group n the recommendation and approval of dividends and other n the approval of major items of capital expenditure capital distributions n the settlement of major litigation.
Board Structure At the date of this report the Board comprised three Executive, five Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Andrew Page was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September 2014 at which time he joined the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
John Bennett will step down from the Board in May 2015 at which time Andrew Page will become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of all the Groups business activities.
The Non-Executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, all independent of management and contribute independent judgement as well as bringing extensive knowledge and experience to the proceedings of the Board.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms, which may subsequently be extended.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive is rigorously reviewed, taking account of the requirement to refresh the Board.
All directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have clear and distinct roles.
The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct Board meetings and to ensure that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions.
The Chairman also meets regularly with major shareholders and in order to understand their views and seek their input on specific matters.
The Chief Executives role is to develop and lead business strategies and processes to enable the Group to meet the requirements of its clients as well the needs of its employees.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who wish to raise concerns that cannot be resolved through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
Robert Miller-Bakewell acted as the Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
The Chairman of each Committee provides updates as to its activities at Board meetings.
The table below shows the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each of the Directors during the year.
Full Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Board Committee Committee Committee Governance Brook Land 8 1 1 Alan Hearne 8 1 Gary Young 8 Phil Williams 8 John Bennett 8 3 6 Louise Charlton 5 4 1 Robert Miller-Bakewell 8 3 1 Tracey Graham 8 3 6 Andrew Page 2 2 Number of meetings held 8 3 6 1 1 Appointed 15 September 2014. rpsgroup.
com 23 Board Operations The Board generally meets eight times annually, although additional meetings may be held should circumstances require.
The Board agenda gives significant focus to business performance and strategy balanced by consideration of emerging risks and the control environment.
Comprehensive papers are circulated well in advance of Board meetings which include general updates and briefings on significant issues from each of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
These reports and other matters of immediate importance are discussed at each meeting.
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in ensuring that Board procedures are followed and advises on matters of Corporate Governance.
The services of the Company Secretary are available to Directors generally.
Outside of Board meetings the Chairman has regular individual discussions with all Directors.
The Executive Directors meet formally at least once a month.
The Executive Committee, which consists of the three Executive Directors supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for all operational matters within the Group subject to those matters that remain reserved for the Board.
The minutes of all Executive Committee meetings are circulated to the Non-Executive Directors.
Where Directors have concerns that cannot be resolved regarding the management of the Company or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
In accordance with Company policy any concerns expressed by a Director on resignation are provided, in a written statement, to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
No matters of this nature have arisen during the year.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions that allow Directors to authorise conflicts in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
These provisions enable the Directors to authorise a conflict, subject to such terms as they may think fit, which may include exclusion from voting in respect of the relevant issue and exclusion from information and discussion relating to the matter.
The procedure approved by the Board for authorising conflicts reminds Directors of the need to consider their duties as Directors and not grant an authorisation unless they believe, in good faith, that this would be likely to promote the success of the Company.
A potentially conflicted Director cannot vote on such an authorising resolution or be counted in a quorum for that purpose.
Any authority granted may be terminated at any time and the Director is informed of his obligation to inform the Company without delay should there be any change in the nature of the conflict previously authorised.
In addition, the Board requires the Nomination Committee to check that any individual it nominates for appointment to the Board is free of any potential conflict of interest.
No actual or potential conflicts of interest arose during the year under review.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance with a current limit of indemnity of 20m.
The Groups strategy and its business model are described on pages 3 and 4.
Board Performance The Board undertakes an annual appraisal of its performance.
Having conducted its first externally facilitated performance review in 2013 the Board reverted to an internal review for 2014.
As part of the exercise that the Senior Independent Director undertook in relation to succession planning he engaged with all directors in relation to the structure and operation of the Board and its Committees.
In addition all directors were given the opportunity to raise any issues of concern directly with the Chairman.
No major issues arose out of this exercise.
The Non-Executive Directors hold meetings with the Chairman without the Executives present at least twice a year and the Non-Executives, led by the Senior Non-Executive Director, meet on an annual basis to appraise the Chairmans performance.
On appointment directors receive information on the Company as well as the Board and its procedures.
They also meet other members of the Board to be briefed on strategy, financial matters and other key issues.
Advice is available from the Companys solicitors, auditors and brokers if required.
During the year updates are provided on key technical issues as required including those relating to corporate governance and corporate social responsibility.
Non-Executive Directors undertake visits to operating companies and attend their Board meetings in order to improve their understanding of the issues facing the Groups businesses.
Communication The Company attaches great importance to communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
In addition to regular financial reporting the Group website provides up-to-date information about its organisation, the services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
The Company also responds to letters and enquiries from shareholders and others with an interest in the Group.
In addition to presentations of full and half-year results, senior executives led by the Chief Executive hold meetings with the Companys principal shareholders to discuss the Companys strategy and performance.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available to discuss issues with major shareholders.
A detailed investor relations report is presented at all regular Board meetings to ensure that the Board is kept aware of the views of larger shareholders and the investment community generally.
The Chairman of each of the Board Committees attends the Annual General Meeting and is available to answer questions.
24 Report and Accounts 2014 Management & Governance Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the independent auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 20 to 21 and 31 to 34 and the statement of the Directors in respect of going concern appears on page 20.
The Board has throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements had procedures in place as recommended in the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the supporting document issued by the Financial Reporting Council, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The principal risks to which the Group is exposed and the measures to mitigate such risks are described on pages 10 to 12.
The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, which are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews from time to time the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management from information provided by management and the Groups external auditors.
Such a review was undertaken by the Audit Committee and the Board during 2014 the outcome of which was satisfactory.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to provide effective internal financial controls are as follows: Financial reporting: The results for the Group are reported to and reviewed at each Board meeting.
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.
Financial and accounting principles and internal financial controls assurance: The Groups accounting policies, principles and minimum standards required for effective financial control are communicated to all accounting teams.
The Group Finance function undertakes periodic detailed reviews to ensure compliance and to follow up any weaknesses previously identified.
Capital investment: The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence procedures in respect of potential business acquisitions.
Treasury: the Group operates a central treasury function that undertakes required borrowing and foreign exchange transactions as well as the daily monitoring of bank balances and cash receipts.
Appropriate payment authorisation processes are in place in all parts of the Group.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors: John Bennett, Robert Miller-Bakewell, Tracey Graham and Andrew Page.
As noted above John Bennett will leave the Committee on his retirement from the Board in May 2015.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
Although the Board considers that all current members of the Committee have experience that is relevant to the role, during the year under review John Bennett, who is a Chartered Accountant, was the member of the Committee specifically identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
On retirement of John Bennett from the Committee, Andrew Page will be identified in this role.
At its annual planning meeting in September the Committee reviews and approves plans with the Auditors including the locations to be audited and the key areas of audit focus.
At the conclusion of the audit the Committee reviews the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the report and accounts as a whole prior to their submission to the Board.
This review includes ensuring that statutory and associated legal and regulatory requirements are met as well as considering significant reporting judgements, the adoption of appropriate accounting policies and practices and compliance with accounting standards.
In respect of the year under review the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements and in each case addressed these as indicated.
Intangible assets: This classification of assets, which comprises goodwill and other intangible assets, is by far the largest on the Group balance sheet and therefore receives careful attention from the Audit Committee.
The Committee needed to be satisfied that no impairment of its carrying value was appropriate.
To achieve this it carefully reviewed a report from the Group Finance Director which included the results of detailed modelling of the Groups cash generating units using assumptions and budgets that had been approved by the Board.
Based upon this report the Committee was able to satisfy itself that no impairment was required.
Acquisition accounting: A number of acquisitions were completed in the year and judgements are made with respect to the fair value of the net assets acquired and the consideration transferred.
The Group Finance Director explained to the Committee the valuation process and the judgements made.
The valuation of intangibles uses a spreadsheet model that was constructed with the help of external valuation experts.
Inputs to the model are obtained from the acquired entity and the assumptions used are derived from recognised sources or using previous experience.
Recoverability of Trade Debtors and Accrued Income and Revenue Recognition: The risk that accrued income and trade debtors may not be collected and therefore may be overstated in the accounts is discussed and considered by the Board at its regular board meetings when it considers monthly results.
The finance reports prepared for those meetings contain age profile information on debtors and accrued income by segment.
Operational reports presented by Executive Directors at those meeting discuss specific issues in more detail as necessary.
The Group Finance Director prepared a paper for the Audit Committee that considered the recoverability of trade debtors and accrued income at the year-end and the controls in respect of revenue recognition that applied throughout the year.
com 25 Following the review conducted by the Audit Committee and its own consideration, the Board was able to conclude that the Report and Accounts for 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion the Board was satisfied that the Groups performance across its segments, as well as its business model, strategy and the key risks that it faces are clearly explained in the relevant sections of the Report and Accounts.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope, cost and effectiveness of the external audit under review.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the annual audit prior to making recommendations as to the annual re-appointment of Auditors.
To facilitate this process the Group Finance Director canvasses the views of the Groups operating companies on the conduct of the audit.
He then reports this feedback to the Committee as well as the performance of the Auditors at Group level.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as Group Auditors in June 2012 following a tender process.
The independence of the external auditor is also reviewed each year and audit partners are rotated at least every five years.
As part of its responsibility to ensure independence and objectivity the Committee has adopted a policy to determine the circumstances in which Auditors may be permitted to undertake tax compliance work for the Group.
Under the terms of this policy the provision of certain services are prohibited and include those listed below: n bookkeeping services n valuation services n preparation of financial statements n investment advisory, broker and dealing services n design and implementation of financial systems n general management services The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears in note 8 on page 49.
Taxation work undertaken by Deloitte LLP during the year was handled by teams that were separate and independent from the external audit team and were led by different senior partners.
The Committee was satisfied that appropriate safeguards were in place and that the provision of these additional services by Deloitte LLP did not affect their independence as external auditor.
The taxation work undertaken by Deloitte is compliance based.
Advisory work is undertaken by other firms.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and risk management processes: this included assisting the Board in conducting the review of internal controls described above.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the need for an internal audit function.
It remains of the view that at present the financial controls operating throughout the Group and the reviews undertaken by the Group Finance function are adequate without requiring a dedicated internal audit department.
The Committee also keeps under review the means by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial improprieties relating to financial reporting, internal control or other matters.
The Companys procedure allows for any such matters to be reported to the Company Secretary who will ensure that they are properly investigated and reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
An individual raising a concern need not disclose their identity and if such identity is disclosed it will not be passed on without the consent of that individual.
Nomination Committee The Committee meets as required and comprises the Non-executive Chairman, Brook Land and two Independent Non-Executive Directors, Louise Charlton and Robert Miller-Bakewell.
Brook Land acted as Chairman of the Committee throughout the year, although Robert Miller-Bakewell has subsequently assumed this role.
The Committees key responsibilities include reviewing the Board structure, size and composition as well as evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience which may be required in the future and making recommendations to the Board accordingly.
It is also responsible for nominating candidates to the Board when vacancies arise, recommending Directors who are retiring to be put forward for re-election and where appropriate considering any issues relating to the continuation in office of any Director.
It has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The range of skills and experience offered by the current directors is highlighted in the Chairmans Statement above and the Committee is satisfied with the balance and membership of the current Board.
The Committee does, however, remain mindful of the need to ensure its periodic refreshment.
The Committee also keeps succession planning under continuous review and has, at all times, a clear plan which is designed to ensure a smooth transition, whenever that is needed, for all posts.
During the year an exercise to consider succession planning in the Group generally was undertaken.
This was led by the Senior Independent Director who is also a member of the Nomination Committee.
Account is also taken of the need to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors continue to provide the range and balance of skills required.
The Committee and the Board recognise the importance of diversity.
The Groups previously announced target is that a minimum of 25% of the members of the Board should be female.
Although as temporarily constituted the Board is slightly short of this target, on retirement of John Bennett from the Board in May 2015 it will be met again.
26 Report and Accounts 2014 Management & Governance Prior to appointment of Andrew Page, the Company consulted with its professional advisers and interviewed a number of candidates.
Although an external search agency was not engaged the Nomination Committee was satisfied that the procedure followed was sufficiently formal, rigorous and transparent.
As noted above, Louise Charltons second three year term as a Non-Executive Director and Tracey Grahams first term were due to expire in May 2014 and September 2014 respectively.
Following review both have agreed to continue for a further three year term.
Remuneration Committee The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30 together with the accompanying notes on pages 82 to 88.
Takeover Directive Disclosures required under the Takeover Directive are included on page 21 and form part of the Groups Corporate Governance report.
