Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 59 Audit committee report At the request of the board, with effect from the financial year The audit committee assists the board in fulfilling its ended 31 March 2014, the committee considers whether the oversight responsibilities regarding in particular the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether companys financial and corporate reporting, its risk it provides the necessary information for shareholders to management and internal controls, and the independence assess the groups performance, business model andstrategy.
and effectiveness of the external auditors.
The committee reports to the board on its activities, identifying This year, following changes in the Corporate Governance any matters in respect of which it considers that action or Code the Code and its Guidance to Audit Committees, improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the committee has prepared this report which sets out the steps to be taken.
how it has discharged its responsibilities during the year The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and and, in relation to the financial statements, the significant are available on the SABMiller website, www.
issues it has considered and how these have been addressed.
The revised Code also requires the board to Committee meetings ensure that the annual report is fair, balanced and The committee meets four times in the year.
Meetings are understandable, and the board requested the audit attended by the committee members and typically, by committee to assist it by considering this.
invitation, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, senior members of the group finance team, The work of the committee is far-ranging as described the General Counsel and his deputy, and the Chief Internal in this report.
Without attempting to summarise it here, Auditor.
Other non-executive directors attend from time to time I would draw attention to the following: in considering the as observers.
Other members of management are also invited integrity of financial reporting, we looked in detail at the to attend certain meetings in order to provide the committee carrying value of goodwill and the provisioning for with greater insight into specific issues and developments.
The uncertain tax positions which are two significant areas audit partners and senior members of the group audit team of judgement: in risk management and internal controls, from our external auditors,  LLP, we focused among other matters on IT network security, attend each meeting.
anti-bribery and corruption policies and compliance, fraud, whistleblowing arrangements, and the business The committee receives and discusses regular written and capability programme: in relation to external auditor oral reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Internal independence and effectiveness, we noted the changing Auditor, the General Counsel, and the external auditors relating regulations on audit tendering and rotation and will to matters falling within the committees terms of reference.
determine the timing of an audit tender once the Reports are also received from time to time by other external regulations and transitional arrangements are finalised assurance providers in relation to specific topics addressed and non-audit services currently provided by other firms by the committee.
on our cost and efficiency programme can be managed The committee meets separately at least twice a year with so as not to unduly restrict choice or disrupt the the external auditors without management present and associated elements of the programme.
likewise at least once a year with the Chief Internal Auditor.
In June 2013 John Manser stood down as a member The committee chairman has separate meetings at least four and chairman of the committee when he became acting times a year with the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Internal Chairman of the board, and in July 2014, following the Auditor, and with the external auditors, and the committee annual general meeting, Miles Morland will retire from the chairman also meets separately with the General Counsel.
On behalf of the committee, The Chief Internal Auditor, the external auditors and the I would like to thank them both for the wisdom and General Counsel have direct access to the committee, experience they have brought to the committees primarily through the chairman, on any matter that they regard deliberations over many years.
We were pleased to as relevant to the fulfilment of the committees responsibilities.
welcome Guy Elliott as a member of the committee New members of the committee are briefed on matters in July 2013. relevant to the responsibilities of the committee and meet a range of finance management as part of their induction.
Mark Armour Training is provided to committee members on financial, Chairman of the audit committee regulatory and other compliance matters through briefings presented by the external auditors and the General Counsel.
Committee members have a standing invitation to attend the Responsibilities bi-annual finance, control and assurance meetings for each The main role and responsibilities of the committee are to of the groups regions and do so from time to time.
The assist the board in fulfilling its responsibilities regarding: committee has also instituted a rotational programme of the integrity of SABMillers interim and full year financial receiving presentations from and holding discussions with statements and reporting, including the appropriateness and the regional finance directors.
consistent application of accounting policies, the adequacy The committee chairman briefs the board on the matters of related disclosures, and compliance with relevant discussed at each committee meeting and the minutes of statutory and listing requirements: each meeting are circulated to all board members.
risk management and internal controls, related compliance activities, and the effectiveness of the internal audit function: The effectiveness of the operation of the committee was and reviewed as part of the effectiveness review of the board the scope, resources, performance and effectiveness of the and its committees in March 2014. external auditors, including monitoring their independence and objectivity.
60 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Audit committee report continued Financial and corporate reporting The committee also received reports from the external auditors In discharging its responsibilities in relation to the integrity on these matters and discussed with them the judgements of the interim and full year financial statements and reporting, made.
The committee was satisfied with the explanations before their submission to the board for approval, the provided and conclusions reached.
committee reviewed reports from management and from The committee reviewed and discussed with management the the external auditors, and discussed with them: processes undertaken to ensure that the annual report was the appropriateness and the consistency of application of fair, balanced and understandable and reviewed drafts of the the accounting policies, their compliance with applicable annual report to consider whether, based on the knowledge accounting standards, and the implementation of changes and understanding of committee members, it appeared to in international financial reporting standards including be so.
The committee also received reports from the Chief IAS19 revised, Employee benefits, which was adopted Internal Auditor and the external auditors on whether or not, for the financial year with prior year restatements: having reviewed the document, the results of their respective the critical accounting judgements and estimations made reviews and other work would suggest otherwise.
The General in the preparation of the financial statements and those Counsel reported on the steps taken to verify the accuracy matters where there have been substantive discussions of statements in the annual report, and on compliance with between management and the external auditors: legal disclosure requirements.
Based on this, the committee the contingent liabilities and judgements made in respect recommended the annual report to the board as fair, balanced of significant legal matters, on which the committee receives and understandable and providing the information necessary regular reports from the General Counsel: for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business the adequacy and clarity of reporting disclosures and model and strategy.
compliance with applicable financial and other reporting Risk management and internal controls requirements, including the treatment of exceptional items With respect to its oversight of risk management and internal excluded from adjusted earnings used by management as controls, the committee has reviewed and discussed a wide an additional performance measure and the adoption range of matters with management, and with the internal during the financial year of additional financial performance auditors and external auditors as appropriate, and in particular measures including net producer revenue and revised the committee: definitions of EBITDA and net debt: the appropriateness of the going concern basis of reviewed the processes for the identification and management of material risks across the group, and accounting, with reference to budgeted and projected future cash flows, debt maturities, cash resources and discussed changes to the principal risks and risk profiles during the year: committed financing facilities, key credit ratios and sensitivity analyses: and discussed the principal risks identified by the risk management processes, the mitigating actions and whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary residual risk.
These were also discussed by the board.
As part of its review of the annual report, the committee for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
reviewed the disclosures with respect to principal risks and mitigating factors: Critical judgements and key sources of uncertainty in the received and discussed regular reports from the Chief accounts are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial Internal Auditor on the progress of internal audit work statements and these were reviewed by the committee.
against the agreed annual plan, the principal findings of Of particular significance in both the interim and full year the internal audit work undertaken, actions agreed with financial statements were the judgements made in respect management, and the progress on implementation of prior of the carrying values of goodwill and the provisioning for recommendations.
The reports also provided further detail uncertain tax positions.
These were addressed by the on assurance activities in respect of major change projects committee asfollows: under way in the group, including the findings of any third Carrying values of goodwill party firms appointed to provide related assurance services, The judgements in respect of the carrying values of goodwill and addressed any identified frauds of significance.
and potential asset impairment relate to the assumptions Areas of assurance focus during the year included: underlying the value in use calculations and include the management of the design and implementation of the global robustness of business plans, long-term growth assumptions template as part of the business capability programme: the and discount rates.
The committee received and discussed a planning and organisation of the new cost and efficiency report from the Chief Financial Officer on the methodologies programme: IT network security: implementation and applied, the bases for the assumptions used, and a range compliance with anti-bribery and corruption policies: and of sensitivity analyses.
continued progress towards voluntary compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Uncertain tax positions relating to the documentation and testing of internal controls The judgements in respect of provisioning for uncertain tax over financial reporting: positions relate to the inherent uncertainties in the application reviewed and approved the annual internal audit plan and of tax law and practice, the assumptions underlying deferred resource requirements: tax asset recognition, and the complexity of assessing reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function, potential liabilities across numerous jurisdictions.
The including consideration of its scope as set out in the terms committee received and discussed a report from the Chief of reference, the adequacy of resources including skills Financial Officer on the potential liabilities identified and and expertise, the relevance of its findings and quality estimates applied and on assumptions used in respect of reporting, and the impact of its recommendations.
of deferred tax asset recognition.
Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 61 This year, in reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit, the independence, and where their skills and experience make committee received a report from an independent external them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by the consultant, Ernst & Young, under the supervision of the committee.
The policy stipulates the types of work which General Counsel.
This looked in more detail at the working are not permitted to be performed by the auditors and those methods and practices of the function in addition to the which may be permitted in appropriate circumstances.
The matters annually reviewed by the committee and compared groups procedures require that any non-audit services the function with industry benchmarks.
An independent proposed to be provided by the auditors be supported by a review of this nature is typically undertaken every five years.
justification as to why the appointment of the external auditors The conclusion of this review was positive and assessed the to provide the services is in the best interests of the group, groups internal audit function as operating effectively.
It also and how auditor independence would be safeguarded in the highlighted some scope for further improvement, particularly specific context of the proposed services.
The committee has, in more extensive use of data analytics: at each meeting, reviewed and agreed the non-audit services received and discussed regular reports from the General provided in the year and the related fees, which are Counsel on compliance matters, including the operation of summarised in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
the groups code of business conduct and ethics and related The external auditors,  LLP, have training programmes, the adequacy of the groups anticonfirmed to the committee their independence and bribery and corruption framework and the implementation compliance with the SABMiller policy on auditor independence.
of its policies, and whistleblowing arrangements.
In relation The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit to the groups whistleblowing arrangements the committee partner responsible for the audit engagement every five years, received reports from the General Counsel on concerns unless there are unusual extenuating circumstances when a raised through these arrangements, both to assess whether further year may be considered.
The lead audit engagement these suggested any need for the enhancement of internal partner, Richard Hughes, has now completed three years.
controls, and to assess whether the whistleblowing arrangements appear to be functioning effectively, with The committee conducted its annual review of the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of proportionate and independent investigation of reported matters, appropriate protection for whistleblowers, and the external audit process for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The review was based on a survey of key stakeholders across suitable follow-up action.
The General Counsel also reports to the committee on the bi-annual letters of representation the group, consideration of public regulatory reports on  member firms, and the quality of received from the groups businesses on compliance matters and on management actions taken on any the auditors reporting to and interaction with the committee.
Based on this review, the committee was satisfied with the issuesidentified: received and discussed reports on treasury policies, performance of the auditors and the effectiveness of the auditprocess.
including compliance with commodity hedging policies and counterparty credit limits, on the groups global insurance , later becoming arrangements, and on the operation and funding of the  LLP in 2003, were appointed as groups defined benefit post-retirement plans: and the companys external auditors in 1999 when the company received a presentation from the Chief Financial Officer on moved its headquarters to London and listed on the London developments within the finance function, including benchStock Exchange.
The committee has monitored recent strength and succession planning, training and effectiveness regulatory developments in the UK and the European Union of the function, and the development of competencies in regarding the length of audit tenure, audit tendering and audit decision support capabilities.
firm rotation and the provision of non-audit services by auditors.
As part of the year-end procedures, the audit committee has The European Union has now directed member states to adopt legislation within the next two years requiring that companies reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management during the financial year.
The objective change their external auditors at least every 10 years, or every 20 years if an audit tender is held after 10 years, subject to of these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can transitional rules, and restricting further the non-audit services that may be provided.
Specific UK regulations, including any only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The committee has reported to additional requirements of the Competition and Markets Authority and transitional rules, are not yet finalised.
In the the board on this basis.
light of this and the continued objectivity, independence and External audit independence and effectiveness effectiveness of the  LLP audit, the SABMiller has a well-established policy on independence and committee has recommended to the board that a resolution audit effectiveness that sets out: the responsibilities of the for the reappointment of the external auditors for the financial committee in the selection of auditors to be proposed for year ending 31 March 2015 be proposed at the forthcoming appointment or reappointment and for agreement on the terms annual general meeting.
of their engagement, scope and remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the policy on the provision The committee will determine the timing of a future audit tender taking into account any final guidance on transitional of non-audit services: the rotation of audit partners and staff: and the conduct of the relationship between the auditors arrangements and the practical considerations of managing the significant non-audit services currently provided to and the committee.
SABMiller by other audit firms as part of the cost and efficiency The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit programme so that a tender process is not unduly restricted services that would compromise their independence or violate in choice or disruptive to the associated elements of the any professional requirements or regulations affecting their programme.
SABMiller does not indemnify its external auditors appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide and there are no contractual obligations restricting the choice non-audit services which do not interfere with their of externalauditors.
