Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 49 Corporate governance the board carried out a formal and rigorous evaluation of Introduction the performance and effectiveness of the board, its principal This report describes our directors approach to corporate committees and its individual directors.
The board will keep governance and how the board applies the UK Corporate under review the benefit of carrying out an externally Governance Code.
In his statement on pages 4 and 5 of the facilitated performance evaluation in future years.
annual report, our Chairman reports on how we apply the With regard to the Code provision stating that external audit principles of the Code relating to the role and effectiveness contracts should be put out to tender at least every 10 years, of the board.
the company has not tendered within that period.
The audit Application of the UK Corporate Governance Code committee keeps under review the ongoing legislative proposals The board applied all of the principles and provisions of the on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the Competition Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2014, except in and Markets Authority.
Further details are provided on four respects: page61.
Between 1 April 2013 and 23 April 2013 Graham Mackay was our Executive Chairman, and as such he held the roles Leadership and effectiveness of Chairman and Chief Executive.
As we announced in Board of directors: composition, independence April 2012, we originally intended that as part of the boards and performance evaluation succession planning Mr Mackay would remain as Executive Composition Chairman until July 2013, and this was overwhelmingly We have 15 directors: our Chairman Mr Manser : seven approved by shareholders at our annual general meeting in independent non-executive directors including Mr Elliott, who July 2012.
However, when Mr Mackay was diagnosed with is also our Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director : a brain tumour in April 2013, the board accelerated the five non-executive directors who we do not consider to be planned promotion of Alan Clark from Chief Operating independent: and two executive directors Mr Clark, the Chief Officer to Chief Executive, with Mr Mackay becoming our Executive, and Mr Wilson, the Chief Financial Officer.
Short non-executive Chairman until his death in December 2013. biographies of each of the directors are on pages 46 and 47.
Our audit committee did not consist solely of independent The size and certain aspects of the composition of our board directors.
Under our relationship agreement with Altria and our audit, nomination and corporate accountability and Group, Inc. Altria, as approved by shareholders in 2002 risk assurance committees continue to be determined in part and in 2005, Altria has the right to nominate a director to the by the terms of our relationship agreements with Altria and audit committee, and has nominated Mr Devitre, whom the with BevCo Ltd a holding company of the Santo Domingo board does not consider to be an independent director for Group, both of which have been approved by SABMillers the purposes of the Code.
The board nevertheless considers shareholders.
Our agreement with Altria limits the size of the that the composition of the audit committee remains board to a maximum of 15 directors, of whom no more than appropriate, given Altrias interest as the companys largest two are to be executive directors, up to three are to be nonshareholder, and is satisfied that, having regard to the executive directors nominated by Altria, up to two are to be experience and background in financial matters of MrDevitre, non-executive directors nominated by BevCo, and up to eight as a former chief financial officer of Altria, the independence are to be non-executive directors nominated by the board.
from management and the effectiveness of our audit Our agreement with BevCo allows BevCo to nominate up to committee in discharging its functions continue to be two non-executive directors for appointment to the board.
considerably enhanced and not in the least compromised.
Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their 3.
Two directors, Mr Mackay, who was on medical leave of respective agreements to nominate one director for appointment absence, and Mr Ramaphosa, who was at short notice called to the nomination committee, being Mr Bible and Mr Santo to a meeting convened by the President of South Africa, were Domingo respectively.
Both Altria and BevCo have the right unable to attend our 2013 annual general meeting.
to nominate directors for appointment to the corporate 4.
The Code recommends that the performance evaluation of accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC, which the boards of FTSE 350 companies should be externally Altria has exercised nominating Mr Bible but BevCo has not, facilitated at least every three years.
Given the director and Altria has exercised its right to nominate one director changes first announced in April 2012 and the subsequent MrDevitre for appointment to the audit committee.
period of transition into new roles, the board did not consider Independence it beneficial to conduct an externally facilitated evaluation The board considers seven directors Mr Armour, Mr Elliott, during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Following the Ms Knox, Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Dr Moyo and Ms Weir to diagnosis of Mr Mackays illness and consequential changes be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The board to responsibilities, including the appointment of Mr Manser considers five non-executive directors not to be independent as acting Chairman and his subsequent appointment as for the purposes of the Code: Mr Bible, Mr Devitre and Chairman, the board concluded that there would be no MrWillard, as they are nominees of Altria, the companys benefit in carrying out an externally facilitated evaluation largest shareholder: and Mr Santo Domingo and MrPrez, during the year ended 31 March 2014.
As described in as they are nominees of BevCo, the companys second the Chairmans statement and detailed later in this report, largest shareholder.
50 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued In respect of Mr Manzoni, an independent director who has was led by the Chairman in consultation with the Deputy served on the board for more than nine years and offers Chairman and the Company Secretary.
himself for re-election, the board has considered specifically The evaluation process involved each non-executive director whether his length of service has compromised his considering a tailored questionnaire which included specific independence.
The board has determined that he remains consideration of board structure, board meetings, key independent in character and judgement and that there are responsibilities of the board, its relationship with management, no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, its priorities and any changes which directors believed would or could appear to affect, his judgement, and that his improve the boards effectiveness.
independence of character and judgement is not in any way affected or impaired by length of service, noting also that as The performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer was reviewed by the Chairman and the nomination a result of executive directors succession over the last three years, Mr Manzoni has not served concurrently with any committee, and reported on to the board by the nomination committee.
Each non-executive directors performance was executive director for more than three years.
evaluated by the Chairman, in consultation with the Deputy The board also conducted a rigorous review of the Chairman and Company Secretary.
performance of Mr Manzoni and considers that he continues to bring invaluable integrity, wisdom and experience to the In reviewing the performance of the board and its committees, the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman were aligned in their board and to contribute positively to board and committee deliberations with his frequent and reasoned challenges to conclusion that, measured against the principal duties expected of them, the board and its standing and ad hoc management.
The board is therefore entirely satisfied as to the performance and continued independence of Mr Manzoni.
sub-committees continued to operate effectively, including in their support of management, in monitoring of performance, Mr Morland will be retiring from the board at the annual general and in maintaining the boards strategic oversight.
meeting in July 2014, having served on the board since our The Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the committee chairmen listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1999. and the Company Secretary met at the end of the process to The test of independence does not apply to Mr Bible who is review the results of the performance and effectiveness not considered independent as he was nominated to the evaluations conducted in respect of the board, of the directors board by Altria.
individually, of the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman and of The test of independence does not apply to the Chairman each of the boards four standing committees.
Regarding the other than on his appointment.
When considering the board committees, the committee chairmen expressed their appointment of Mr Manser as Chairman on 18 December views regarding the operation of their respective committees 2013, following the death of Mr Mackay, the board gave the against their terms of reference and the performance and most particular consideration to whether his service on the effectiveness of each committee.
These views were discussed board since 2001 compromised his independence, and in an open and constructive manner with recommendations concluded that he remained resolutely independent in arising from the discussions being brought forward to the character and judgement and that there were no relationships board and the respective committees.
The conclusion of this or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to meeting was that the board was balanced and operated affect, his judgement, and that his independence of character effectively and that the board committees discharged and judgement was not in any way affected or impaired by effectively their duties under their respective terms of reference.
The results of the performance and effectiveness assessment The board continues to believe that its overall composition process as outlined above were reviewed in full and approved remains appropriate, having regard in particular to the by the board.
Matters identified as requiring more focus in independence of character and integrity of all of our directors, the coming year included: a review of marketing expenditure and the experience and skills which they bring to their duties, and strategies: a continuing focus on succession at senior and that there is an appropriate balance of skills, collective executive level: board composition and the search for a experience, independence, knowledge and gender among suitably qualified candidate to replace Mr Ramaphosa, and our non-executive directors to enable them to discharge their for a longer term chairman to succeed Mr Manser: long-term respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
growth outlook and the strategy for developed markets: continuing the practice of holding board meetings in and Board, committee and director performance evaluation focussed on specific regions, to drive the boards knowledge Performance evaluations are carried out each year and are of local businesses and build relationships with local reported in the next annual report.
Given the planned transition management: and a more effective tying together of the of management responsibilities first announced in 2012, which boards strategic review and three-year financial projections.
saw the then Chairman, Mr Kahn, retire, Mr Mackay become Executive Chairman for what was expected to be a transitional All directors, except for Mr Morland, will be standing for period of one year, and Mr Clark join the board initially as Chief re-election at this years annual general meeting.
The nomination Operating Officer and subsequently as Chief Executive, the committee has confirmed to the board that each of the existing board did not consider it appropriate to carry out an externally directors offering themselves for election or re-election continues facilitated review during the year ended 31 March 2013. to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their Following the illness and death of Mr Mackay and consequential role.
Mr Elliott, as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent changes to responsibilities during 2013, the board concluded Director, confirms that the Chairman has performed effectively that it would not be beneficial to carry out an externally and demonstrated commitment to his role during the year, facilitated review during the year ended 31 March 2014. both as acting Chairman during MrMackays illness and Instead, a formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance subsequently as Chairman.
MrMansers outside commitments and effectiveness of the board and its principal committees have not changed since his appointment asChairman.
Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 51 Board Balance Tenure 02 years 2 Chairman 1 24 years 4 Executive directors 2 46 years 2 Independent non-executives 7 6 years 7 Nominated non-executives 5 as of 31 March 2014 How the board operates Board meetings and attendance During the year we held seven board meetings.
Individual directors attendance at board and committee meetings and at the annual general meeting is set out in the table below.
In the few instances where directors were not able to attend a board or committee meeting, any comments which they have had on the matters to be considered at that meeting have been given in advance to the chairman of the meeting or to the Company Secretary.
Directors attendance 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC AGM Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended EAG Mackay n a 3 5 1 2 1 1 N PJ Manser n a 7 7 1 1 1 1 3 3 2 2 Y AJ Clark n a 7 7 2 2 Y JS Wilson n a 7 7 2 2 Y MH Armour Yes 7 7 4 4 3 3 Y GC Bible No 6 7 3 3 2 2 Y DS Devitre No 6 7 4 4 Y GR Elliott Yes 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 Y LMS Knox Yes 7 7 4 4 3 3 Y JA Manzoni Yes 6 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 Y MQ Morland Yes 6 7 4 4 1 1 3 3 Y DF Moyo Yes 7 7 2 2 Y CA Prez Dvila No 6 7 Y MC Ramaphosa Yes 2 3 1 1 N A Santo Domingo Dvila No 6 7 3 3 Y HA Weir Yes 6 7 4 4 1 2 Y HA Willard No 6 7 Y Mr Mackay was unable to attend the annual general meeting and preceding board meeting in July 2013 and the November 2013 board and nomination committee meetings which were held while he was on medical leave of absence.
Messrs Bible, Devitre, Manzoni, Morland, Prez, Santo Domingo and Willard were unable to attend the board meeting in June, which was called at short notice to consider a small potential transaction.
Mr Ramaphosa was unable to attend the annual general meeting in July 2013 and preceding board meeting as he had to remain in South Africa to attend a meeting called at short notice by the President of South Africa.
Ms Weir was unable to attend the January 2014 board and nomination meetings due to pre-existing business commitments.
52 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Operation of the board The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, determines investment policies, agrees on performance criteria, and delegates to management the detailed planning and implementation of those objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The board monitors compliance with policies and achievement against objectives by holding management accountable for its activities through monthly and quarterly performance reporting and budget updates.
The board receives regular briefings from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, and from the General Counsel on legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters.
Other members of our executive committee our regional managing directors and the directors of our key group functions: corporate affairs: corporate finance and development: marketing: and supply chain and human resources make regular presentations to the board, enabling directors to explore and interrogate specific issues and developments in greater detail.
Presentations during the year by other members of the executive committee are summarised in the table below: Presentations to the SABMiller plc board May 2013 Presentations from the President, SABMiller Latin America covering the performance of the region, focus areas, licence to trade matters and digital opportunities: and the Corporate Affairs Director, SABMiller plc on IR strategy, sustainable development issues, reputational risks and stakeholder perceptions of SABMiller.
Pre-dinner presentation from the Deputy General Counsel, SABMiller plc on regulatory and litigation developments.
June 2013 Presentation on strategic projects from the Director, Corporate Finance and Development, SABMiller plc.
July 2013 Pre annual general meeting presentation from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary on shareholder and institutional investor engagement and from the Chief Financial Officer on the groups tax philosophy and policy.
September 2013 Presentations from the Director, Supply Chain and Human Resources, SABMiller plc covering the groups global talent management model, and progress in developing an integrated supply chain: and the Marketing Director, SABMiller plc on category structure and innovation.
November 2013 Presentations from the Managing Director, SABMiller Europe and the Chief Executive Officer, MillerCoors, covering the European and US beer markets respectively.
January 2014 Held in Mozambique: the board received presentations from the regional and local country management team, and also presentations by the Managing Director, SABMiller Africa and the Chairman, SABMiller Beverages South Africa on performance, strategy, sustainable development issues and licence to trade matters.
In addition, the board received a detailed presentation on the new cost and efficiency programme.
March 2014 Presentations from the Managing Director, SABMiller Asia Pacific on the Chinese beer market: the Marketing Director, SABMiller plc, providing an analysis of commercial spend: and the Director, Corporate Finance and Development, SABMiller plc and the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary on strategic projects.
Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 53 Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of the groups businesses and meetings with senior management, intellectual honesty of purpose, integrity and mutual respect, as appropriate.
New directors are briefed on internal controls requiring reporting of the highest standard by management at head office and business unit level and are advised of the and direct, robust and constructive challenge and debate legal and other duties they have as directors of a listed among board and committee members.
company as well as on relevant company policies and governance relatedmatters.
Matters reserved for the board There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively The company is committed to the continuing development by the board.
These include approval of financial statements: of directors in order that they may build on their expertise and the groups business strategy: the annual capital expenditure develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business plan: major capital projects: major changes to the groups and the markets in which group companies operate.
Members management and control structure: material investments or of board committees are encouraged to attend internal and disposals: risk management strategy: sustainability and external briefings and courses on aspects of their respective environmental policies: and treasury policies.
committee specialisms and regular updates on relevant legal, regulatory, corporate governance and technical developments The board governs through clearly mandated board are presented to committee members at each meeting and, committees, accompanied by monitoring and reporting as appropriate, to the full board.
The Chairman considers the systems.
Each standing board committee has specific written training and development needs of the board and discusses terms of reference issued by the board and adopted in these with the respective directors as necessary.
The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available on the companys Upon appointment to the board Mr Elliott received a tailored website.
All committee chairmen report orally on the induction which included, among other things, an extensive proceedings of their committees at the next meeting of review of our operations in South Africa, incorporating the board, and the minutes of the meetings of all board meetings with senior management in both the beer and soft committees are circulated to all board members.
drinks divisions, site visits to a brewery, a bottling plant and a distribution depot, and trade visits.
In addition, in light of his Conflicts of interest appointment to the audit committee, MrElliott met senior Our directors are required to avoid situations where they members of finance management.
have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
As Outside appointments permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other of the company allow the board to authorise potential conflicts boards provided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions commitment to discharge effectively their duties to SABMiller.
Procedures are in place for the disclosure by The nomination committee keeps under review the extent of directors of any potential conflicts and for the appropriate directors other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises.
These procedures the board is not compromised by the extent of their external continue to operate effectively.
There were no actual or potential commitments, and do not give rise to conflicts of interest.
The conflicts of interest which were required to be authorised by board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors commit the board during the year ended 31March2014.
sufficient time to their duties as directors of the company and the non-executive directors standing for election or re-election The roles of executive and non-executive directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Our executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy respective obligations to the company.
and for making and implementing operational decisions.
Our non-executive directors complement the skills and experience The board firmly believes in the benefit to the group of our of the executive directors, bring independent judgement, executive directors and members of the executive committee challenge, and contribute to the formulation of strategy, policy accepting non-executive directorships of other companies in and decision-making through their knowledge and experience order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of other businesses and sectors.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the board, executive directors and members of the executive Information and training committee are permitted to accept external non-executive Our Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board, board appointments and to retain any fees received from through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
The board and its committees are supplied with full and timely information, including detailed financial information, During the year ended 31 March 2014 Mr Mackay was a to enable directors to discharge their responsibilities, and non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, until he the committees are provided with sufficient resources to resigned on 12 June 2013, and was a member of the board of undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the advice Philip Morris International Inc. until his death on 18 December of the Company Secretary.
Fees earned by Mr Mackay from these appointments are also available to directors in appropriate circumstances, at the set out in the directors remuneration report, and were retained companys expense.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 by Mr Mackay.
Of the other executive committee members, none of the directors sought independent external advice MrAdami is a non-executive director of Allied Electronics through the company.
Corporation Limited, and Mr Bowman is a non-executive director of Tiger Brands Limited, both being companies listed Following the appointment of new directors to the board, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and MrMervis is a they are briefed on the duties they owe to the company as director of the Melbourne Business School.
directors, and tailored induction programmes are arranged which involve industry specific training and include visits to 54 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Deputy The Company Secretary Chairman and Senior Independent Director The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and its The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate committees and he attended all meetings during the year with responsibilities divided between them, as formalised in a under review.
written statement of responsibilities approved by the board.
Share capital The statement of responsibilities was last revised in light of The information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i MrMansers appointment as Chairman and approved by the of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and board in its meeting in January 2014.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 410 Mr Elliott is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent information about share capital required under Directive Director, having succeeded Mr Manser on 18 December 2013 2004 25 EC the Takeover Directive is contained in the when Mr Manser was appointed as Chairman.
Mr Elliott is a directors report on pages 85 to 90 of this annual report.
highly experienced business leader who is well placed to The boards committees and the executive committee influence the governance of the company and to meet his The executive committee responsibilities as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent The board delegates responsibility for proposing and Director.
He serves as an additional contact point for implementing the groups strategy and for managing the group shareholders, and is also available to fellow non-executive to the Chief Executive, Mr Clark, who is supported by the directors, either individually or collectively, to discuss any executive committee excom, which he chairs.
Excom members matters of concern in a forum that does not include the are appointed by Mr Clark, after consultation with the board.
Chairman, the executive directors or other members of the The other members of excom are our Chief Financial Officer, management team.
The statement of responsibilities of the our regional managing directors and the directors of our key Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director was last group functions corporate affairs: corporate finance and revised following Mr Elliotts appointment and was approved development: legal: marketing: and supply chain and human by the board in its meeting in March 2014. resources.
Excoms purpose is to support the Chief Executive Our Chairman and Deputy Chairman are both available to in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board and, consult with shareholders throughout the year.
During April in that context, excom executes the strategy and budget 2014 our 20 largest shareholders in addition to those approved by the board and, through the Chief Executive, represented on the board were invited to meet the Chairman reports on these matters to theboard.
and Deputy Chairman to discuss any governance or other Excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place issues which they wished to raise, and the invitations were and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management taken up by 10 shareholders.
Matters raised in these meetings process in operation throughout the group.
included executive and non-executive succession planning, long-term sustainable growth prospects in developing The audit committee Mr Manser chaired the audit committee until 5 June 2013 and markets, prospects for future value-adding mergers and acquisitions in the light of the relative consolidation of the was succeeded by Mr Armour.
Mr Armour, who first joined the committee on 1 May 2010, is a qualified accountant and, as global beer industry, efficient capital allocation and dividend policy, progress in recruiting a longer term chairman, the the former chief financial officer of Reed Elsevier, he has recent and relevant financial experience.
He was a partner of Price transition of responsibilities to Mr Clark as the new Chief Executive, and relationships with the groups joint venture Waterhouse until 1995, and is currently also a non-executive director of Tesco plc, and a member of its audit committee, and business partners.
and of the Financial Reporting Council.
The board is kept informed of the views of shareholders Mr Morland, Mr Devitre, Ms Knox and Ms Weir also served through regular updates from the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, and the Company Secretary, as well as through on the committee throughout the year.
Mr Morland has been a member of the committee since 13 April 1999, Mr Devitre regular circulation to the board and the inclusion in the board papers of reports on comments from, and exchanges with, since 16 May 2007, and Ms Knox and Ms Weir since 19May 2011.
The board is satisfied that the chairman, MrDevitre, shareholders, investor bodies and analysts.
In the year under review, Mr Manser, acting at that time as the Deputy Chairman, MsKnox and Ms Weir have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Elliott joined the audit committee on 25July hosted a meeting of the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present at which, among other 2013, and also has recent and relevant financial experience, having been chief financial officer of Rio Tinto until April 2013, things, the performance of the then Chairman, MrMackay, wasdiscussed.
and is currently the chairman of the audit committee of Royal Dutch Shell.
Mr Morland will retire from the committee at the Retirement of directors conclusion of the 2014 annual general meeting.
The companys articles of association require that new Biographical information concerning Mr Armour and members directors are subject to election at the first annual general meeting following their appointment, and directors are subject of the committee is set out on pages 46 and 47, and further details of the work and responsibilities of the audit committee to retirement and re-election by shareholders every three years.
The re-appointment of non-executive directors is not are included in the audit committee report on pages 59 to 61 of this annual report.
However, the board has determined that all directors will stand for re-election annually.
Independent non-executive directors who have served for nine years will only be asked to stand for re-election if the board remains satisfied both with the directors performance and that nine years continuous service does not compromise the directors continuing independence.
Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 55 The nomination committee committee throughout the year.
Mr Manser was a member During the year the nomination committee was chaired by of the committee until he stood down with effect from 5 June MrManser, except for the period between 25 July 2013 and 2013 and Mr Elliott joined the committee on his election as 18December 2013, when Mr Mackay joined the committee a director on 25 July 2013. and was appointed chairman.
Mr Bible, Mr Manzoni, The committee is responsible for the assessment and approval MrMorland and Mr Santo Domingo were members of this of a broad remuneration strategy for the group, for the operation committee throughout the year.
Ms Weir, who was appointed of the companys share-based incentive plans and for reviewing a non-executive director in May 2011, became a member of and approving short-term and long-term remuneration for the the committee on 25 July 2013, in place of Mr Ramaphosa executive directors and members of the executive committee.
Mr Elliott joined the committee on The remuneration committee has implemented its strategy 15January 2014.
The committee considers the composition of the board and its committees, and the retirement, of ensuring that employees and executives are rewarded for their contribution to the groups operating and financial appointment and replacement of directors, and makes appropriate recommendations to the board.
The nomination performance at levels which take account of industry, market and country benchmarks.
To ensure that the executives goals committee has continued to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board and remains are aligned to those of the company, share incentives are considered to be critical elements of executive incentive pay.
committed to the progressive renewal of the board through orderly succession.
During the year the committee engaged Kepler Associates as consultants.
Kepler Associates has no other connection Our directors have shown their commitment to the progressive with the company.
At levels below the companys executive refreshment of the board in terms of age, experience, gender committee, the companys management engages other and balance of skills, appointing eight new independent consultants on a project basis.
Details of the companys remuneration policy and the work The committee is conscious of the need for due regard to of the remuneration committee during the year, including the be given to diversity when considering appointments to the shareholder consultation on proposed changes to executive board.
Five of the last eight independent non-executive share option performance conditions and to the value share directors appointed to the board were women, and currently awards comparator group, and on the introduction of more three out of seven of the companys independent nonformalised forfeiture and clawback provisions, are in the executive directors are women.
The committee therefore directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 84. believes that the company is well positioned in terms of the future balance of the board.
The corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Where vacancies arise, the committee prepares a description Dr Moyo chaired the committee throughout the year.
MrBible, of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Mr Clark, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, and Mr Wilson served as Appropriate succession plans for the non-executive directors, members for the entire period.
Mr Mackay was a member of for the executive directors, and for senior management are the committee until 18 December 2013, and Mr Ramaphosa also kept under close review.
was a member of the committee until his retirement from the Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use board on 25 July 2013.
Ms Weir joined the committee with the services of external consultants in order to identify suitable effect from 20 March 2014.
The Corporate Affairs Director, candidates for the board to consider.
In relation to the most MsMay, met regularly with Dr Moyo to discuss implementation recent non-executive board appointment, Mr Elliott, in July and planning issues, and she attended all meetings of the 2013, an external search firm, JCA Group, was retained and committee during the year.
produced a strong list of candidates, who were then The objective of the committee is to assist the board in the shortlisted for consideration by the nomination committee discharge of its responsibilities in relation to the groups alcohol on the basis of their relevant skills and experience.
External policies and corporate accountability, including sustainable consultants, Heidrick & Struggles, have also been retained development, corporate social responsibility and corporate in the search for a new independent non-executive director social investment.
More details of the committees activities to replace Mr Ramaphosa.
are in the sustainable development review section of this The committee has subsequently engaged JCA Group to report and in our separate sustainable development summary assist in the recruitment of a new chairman to succeed report, which is available on our website.
MrManser for the longer term.
During the year the committee continued to focus on companyNeither JCA Group nor Heidrick and Struggles have any specific and industry issues which are critical to protecting our other connection with the group, except that certain offices licence to operate.
Particular areas of focus for the committee of Heidrick and Struggles have been retained from time to during the year included our longer term sustainable time during the year by various group companies to assist in development ambition, building on existing core standards to executive recruitment in one or more countries at levels below meet five shared imperatives, designed to secure sustainable the excom.
development which benefits SABMiller and local communities.
The committee reviewed our sustainable development The remuneration committee performance including progress towards meeting our water During the year the remuneration committee consisted entirely and carbon efficiency targets: our entrepreneurship strategy of independent directors.
Mr Morland chaired the committee and approach to small scale retailers in Latin America: a review until 25 July 2013, when he stepped down.
He was succeeded of the approach to sustainability in both South Africa and Italy: by Ms Knox, who was appointed as a non-executive director in and the review and approval of a new corporate governance May 2011.
Mr Armour and Mr Manzoni were members of the and leadership policy for groupwide health and safety.
56 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued The chairman of the CARAC, Dr Moyo, also had meetings Enterprise-wide risk management during the year with a number of interested shareholders to Excom views the careful and appropriate management of risk discuss a range of sustainable development and corporate as a key management role.
Managing business risk to deliver social responsibility issues.
opportunities is a key element of all our business activities, and is undertaken using a practical and flexible framework The disclosure committee which provides a consistent and sustained approach to risk The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the evaluation.
Business risks, which may be strategic, operational, Deputy Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial financial or environmental, or concern the groups reputation, Officer, one other non-executive director, and the General are understood and visible.
The business context determines Counsel and Company Secretary or the Deputy Company in each situation the level of acceptable risk and controls.
The function of the disclosure committee, in We continue to seek improvement in the management of risk accordance with our inside information policy, is to meet as and during the year we have refreshed our guidance on risk and when required in order to assure compliance with the management and revised our internal protocols, and we UKs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, continue to seek to share best practice throughout as guided by the General Counsel, and to ensure that the ourorganisation.
routes of communication between excom members, the disclosure committee, the General Counsels office, the Key features of our system of risk management are: company secretarial office and investor relations are clear, group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values: and provide for rapid escalation to the disclosure committee clear business objectives and business principles: and key advisers, and the board, of any decision regarding an established risk policy: potential inside information, so that we are able to comply a continuous process for identification and evaluation of fully with our continuing obligations under the Disclosure significant risks to the achievement of business objectives: and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
management processes in place to mitigate significant risks to an acceptable level: Accountability continuing monitoring of significant risks and internal and external environmental factors that may change our risk The audit committee profile: and A description of the composition, scope of responsibilities a regular review of both the type and amount of external and work undertaken by the audit committee during the year insurance purchased, bearing in mind the availability of is included in the section dealing with the board and its cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the committees and in the audit committee report.
Risk management In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to the board on key The groups risk management system is subject to regular risks, there is a process of regular reporting to the board review to ensure compliance with the Code and the Financial through the audit committee on the status of the risk Reporting Councils guidance to directors on internal control management process.
Strategic planning, internal audit and the FRC Guidance, formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance other risk control specialist processes are integrated into line 2005 covering internal control and risk management.
managements risk processes and simplified risk reporting.
Risk and the board of directors The team, led by internal audit, has rolled out a refreshed The directors are ultimately responsible for the groups risk guidance and group methodology.
management system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
There Key reports include those that identify, assess and monitor is a regular schedule for the board to consider the groups strategic, financial, reputational and operational risks in each significant risks and mitigating actions.
The risk management country, division and on a group basis.
system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and there is a Internal control continuous process in place for identifying, assessing, The FRC Guidance recommends internal control practices managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant risks for UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the faced by individual group companies and by the group as a application of the Codes principles and compliance with whole.
This process has been in place for the year under the Codes provisions with regard to internal control.
review up to the approval of the annual report and accounts.
Our systems of internal control are designed and operated to The principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are set support the identification, evaluation and management of risks out on pages 18 and 19. affecting the group.
These include controls in relation to the Executive committee financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated Excom has specific responsibility as the risk management accounts, but extend across all areas of operations.
They are committee for the groups system of risk management.
Excom subject to continuous review as circumstances change and reviews our significant risks and subsequently reports to the new risks emerge.
board on material changes and the associated mitigating actions.
Reviews on the effectiveness of the risk management system were carried out by excom, as the risk management committee, in April and October 2013 and in March 2014.
Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 57 Key features of the systems of internal control are: to the Chief Financial Officer finance and control: global business services: global template design authority: global the risk management system described on page 56: procurement: information technology: internal audit: tax: written policies and procedures within our businesses: treasury: and strategy and planning are required to submit to clearly defined lines of accountability and delegations the Company Secretary on behalf of the board formal letters ofauthority: of representation on compliance with internal controls and management of operating risk by using appropriate key policies, including notification of continuing or potential infrastructure, controls, systems and people throughout significant financial, regulatory, environmental and other the businesses: exposures.
Similar rigorous letter of representation processes business continuity planning, including preventative and operate at country and regional levels within our global contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the business entities.
purchase of insurance: maintenance of a state of preparedness towards compliance These letters form the subject of reports to the audit with Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act through the committee, and cover all subsidiary companies, as well as identification and testing of key financial controls under its MillerCoors LLC and Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited which Internal Financial Control IFC programme.
This is a submit tailored letters of representation.
Executive directors voluntary initiative, which strengthens internal control and executive committee members sit on the boards of major systems and processes within the group: associated companies such as CR Snow, Anadolu Efes and key policies employed in managing financial and operating Castel.
Directors and members of the executive committee risk involve segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, also make annual written declarations of interests and are monitoring, financial and managerial review and obliged to report without delay any potential or actual conflicts comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved of interest which may arise.
standards and budgets: The directors are responsible for the groups systems of a treasury operating framework which establishes policies internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
and manages liquidity and financial risks, including foreign The board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the exchange, interest rate and counterparty exposures, and groups internal controls covering material financial, operational incorporates group and regional treasury committees that and compliance controls and risk management systems for monitor these activities and compliance with the policies.
Where necessary, actions have been Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures are taken to remedy any weaknesses identified from the boards reviewed regularly by the audit committee on behalf of the review of the internal control system.
The systems of internal board: and control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk a group tax policy and tax operating framework which of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide forms the basis of tax governance across the group and is reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material managed by our group tax function which monitors tax risk misstatement or loss.
In reviewing these, the board has taken and implements strategies and procedures to control it, and into account the results of all the work carried out by internal which is also reviewed regularly by the audit committee on and external auditors.
Carlton & United Breweries CUB in Australia became part Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and of the group in December 2011.
As part of the integration of on their effectiveness is obtained through regular management CUB into the SABMiller group, we have continued to embed reviews, reviews of key financial controls, internal audit reviews systems, controls and procedures to bring them into full including business capability programme and other programme alignment with those in place throughout the rest of the group, assurance, testing of certain aspects of the internal financial and we expect CUB to be brought into full compliance when control systems by the external auditors during the course of the global template is rolled out to Australia during the their statutory examinations and regular reports to the audit comingyear.
committee by the internal and external auditors.
Our regional The board, with advice from the audit committee, has finance, control and assurance committees consider the results of these reviews within each region twice a year, together completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management for the period since with reports from country audit committees, to confirm that controls are functioning and to ensure that any material 1April 2013 in accordance with the FRC Guidance.
breakdowns and remedial actions have been reported to the Internal audit appropriate boards of directors.
In relation to our associated Our global internal audit function consists of the group internal undertakings or joint ventures, these matters are reviewed at audit team, led by the Chief Internal Auditor, plus regional and the level of the associates or joint ventures boards or other country audit functions that operate in each of the groups governing committees.
The regional and country functions At the half year and at the year end the members of country are centrally directed by the group internal audit team.
The country internal audit functions are jointly accountable to local and business units, regional and country business executive committees, each of our functional directors corporate affairs: senior finance management and regional heads of internal audit.
They also have direct access and accountability to corporate finance and development: legal: marketing: and supply chain and human resources, each of the direct reports local audit committees and the Chief Internal Auditor.
58 Governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Internal audit activities, all of which are risk-based, are Relations with shareholders performed by teams of appropriately qualified and experienced All shareholders were again encouraged to attend the annual employees.
Third parties may be engaged to support audit general meeting held in July 2013, which provided shareholders work as appropriate.
The Chief Internal Auditor, who reports with the opportunity to ask questions of the board and jointly to the SABMiller plc audit committee and to the Chief chairmen of all the board committees.
At the meeting, all Financial Officer, has direct right of access to, and regular resolutions were put to a vote on a poll, with the results being meetings with, the audit committee chairman and prepares published on the companys website, and on the London formal reports for each audit committee meeting on the and Johannesburg stock exchange news services.
As the consolidated activities and key findings of the global internal geographic spread of shareholders inevitably means that not audit function.
The audit committee also has unrestricted every shareholder can attend a meeting in the UK, a video film access to the universe of internal audit reports, should they and a full transcript of the proceedings of the meeting were wish to review any of them.
published on the companys website.
Similar arrangements Our global internal audit function uses a standardised groupare planned for the forthcoming 2014 annual general meeting.
wide internal audit methodology which is in compliance with We maintain a dedicated investor relations function which the International Standards for the Professional Practice of reports to the Corporate Affairs Director.
The investor relations Internal Auditing of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The team builds and maintains long-term relationships with function operates a formal global quality assurance and institutional investors and analysts and, in partnership with our effectiveness programme.
Accordingly, detailed quality review corporate and divisional management teams and within the assessments are performed with regard to the regional and scope of regulatory constraints, gives presentations on group country internal audit teams, to ensure compliance with performance and regional businesses and strives to ensure defined quality and performance measures.
This process that these are understood across the global equity markets, provides a basis for the annual review of the effectiveness of including in one-to-one meetings with investors.
Dialogue on the global internal audit function and results in a formal report sustainable developments and socially responsible investment prepared by the Chief Internal Auditor to the audit committee matters is handled by the Senior Vice President Sustainable to support the committees formal annual assessment of the Development, who undertakes focused meetings with effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, a periodic review interested investors and stakeholders.
of internal audit is undertaken by an independent external consultant in accordance with the guidelines of the Institute In addition to scheduled management-led programmes in of Internal Auditors.
In early 2014 an external review was which executives interact with investors and analysts, the performed by Ernst & Young LLP EY under the supervision Chairman annually contacts all shareholders or their of the General Counsel and the Deputy General Counsel.
EY representatives holding more than 1% of the issued share reported positive results to the audit committee in May 2014 capital of the company, to enable him to address any queries and assessed the groups internal audit function as operating which shareholders may have about the governance of the effectively.
The audit committee has satisfied itself that company or non-operational aspects of company strategy.
adequate, objective internal audit assurance standards and It is also, more broadly, designed to give the board a greater procedures exist within the group.
Continuous improvement in awareness of shareholder concerns.
As noted above, the the quality and objectivity of the global internal audit function Chairman and the Deputy Chairman met with a number remains a key objective of the department.
The internal audit of institutional shareholders in April and May 2014.
The function is also responsible for facilitating the risk management Chairman, Deputy Chairman, the Company Secretary and and reporting processes across the group.
It also provides the chairmen of our board committees are also available to assurance on the effectiveness of the process to excom, discuss issues with shareholders, and views expressed by the audit committee and the board.
shareholders are communicated to the board.
As part of this initiative the Chairman also offers to meet with significant Whistleblowing measures shareholders in the month before the annual general meeting All our employees have the opportunity to make confidential specifically to deal with issues arising from the annual report disclosures about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing.
and notice of the annual general meeting.
Institutional and The Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary, shareholder comment on the annual report is conveyed by in consultation with the Chief Internal Auditor if appropriate, the Company Secretary to the full board and to the audit decides on the appropriate method and level of investigation.
and remuneration committees and the CARAC in relation The audit committee reviews the groups whistleblowing to matters within their respective terms of reference.
arrangements each year to check that they remain effective, and is notified of all material disclosures made and receives As described in our remuneration report, in both 2013 reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
and 2014 shareholders were invited to meet with the The audit committee has the power to request further chairman of the remuneration committee to discuss information, conduct its own inquiries or order additional our remuneration philosophy.
John Davidson General Counsel and Group Company Secretary For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc 2 June 2014
