Strategic report Our 2014 Strategic report, from page 2 to page 59, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on3 December 2014.
Steve Hare, Chief Financial Officer 60 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairmans introduction to Corporate governance Dear Shareholders It also involves thecreation of a sensitive interface for the views of shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching these judgements.
The executive team is required to provide such information to the Board as the Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over these matters.
It must also evidence appropriate process.
There is a very fine distinction between the approval of processes and their definition.
Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to initiate or define.
The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definition of success and the assessment of appropriaterisk, all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good governance but rather about the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing any Board is the way in which the non-executive and the executive directors interact.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to expect executive directors to speak individually with the same freedom as the non-executive directors.
Equally, executive directors who just toe the The Board of the Companyis committed to ensuring that it provides effective leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to find One of the ways in which the Board achieves this is by requiring that good governance principles and practices are adhered to throughout the right balance between hearing the collective executive view, being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team and allowing the Company.
The Board determined that the following is a helpful summary of its role: independent input from the non-executive directors.
Good governance is about helping to run the Company well.
It involves One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the ensuring that an effective internal framework of systems and controls Board and finding this balance between individuality and team behaviour is put in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and is driving more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer executive promotes success whilst permitting the management of risk to directors.
In our circumstances as a holding company for a number of appropriate levels.
businesses, the reduced Board size works effectively and an appropriate balance is struck.
It also involves the exercise of judgement as to the definitions of success for the Company, the levels of risk we are willing to take to achieve that Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, success and the levels of delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement is the responsibility of the Board and involves consideration of ideally, be composed of a group of respected, experienced, like-minded but diverse people who coalesce around a common purpose of processes and assumptions as well as outcomes.
promoting the long-term success of the company, provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour to support management i. e. those who honestly criticise at times but encourage all the time and who create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code and the business.
its statement requirements Throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2014 and to the date of this report, Sagehas complied with the provisions of the Code, including updates which have applied since our Donald Brydon, CBE year-end.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the Chairman UK Financial Reporting Council at www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts describes how we have applied the principles of the Code.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 61 Board of Directors Donald Brydon 69 Stephen Kelly 52 Steve Hare 53 Ruth Markland 61 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Executive Director Executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: 6 July 2012 5 November 2014 3 January 2014 13 September 2006 Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Donald had a 20 year career Stephen has over 30 years Prior to joining Sage, Steve was Ruth has over30 years with Barclays Group, during leadership experience in the Operating Partner and Co-Head experience of international which time he was Chairman and SME and technology sector.
of the Portfolio Support Group services businesses, and has Chief Executive of BZW Investment He has previously served as at the private equity firm Apax held a number of non-executive Management, followed by 15 years Chief Executive Officer of two Partners, which he joined in 2009. director positions.
She joined with the AXA Group, including high-growth, public software Before his work at Apax Partners, Freshfields in 1977 and served the posts of Chairman and companies NASDAQ listed he built over 10 years experience as Managing Partner of Asia at Chief Executive of AXA Investment Chordiant Software, Inc. from leading the finance function Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Managers and Chairman of 2001 to 2005 and LSE listed Micro for three listed UK companies from 1996 to 2003.
He has also Focus International plc.
from 2006 culminating as CFO for FTSE 100 served as the Chairman of recently chaired the London Metal to 2010.
In 2012 he was appointed company Invensys plc from 2006 the Board of Trustees at the Exchange, Amersham plc, Taylor Chief Operating Officer for UK to 2009.
Between 2004 and 2006 WRVS until November 2012.
Nelson Sofres plc, the ifs School Government where he was the Steve was Group Finance Director Other current appointments: of Finance, Smiths Group plc and most senior executive responsible for Spectris plc, the FTSE 250 Standard Chartered plc is a past Chairman of EveryChild.
for the UK Governments Efficiency precision instrumentation and Senior Independent NonDonald has also served as & Reform agenda, including controls company and from 1997 executive Director Senior Independent Director Digital, Commercial, IT and to 2003 he was with Marconi PLC, Arcadis NV member of Allied Domecq plc and SME strategies.
of the Supervisory Board Stephen has been an angel Steve qualified as a Chartered Board Committees: Other current appointments: investor and director in a Accountant in 1985 with Audit Committee number of high growth start-ups Ernst & Whinney, now part Royal Mail plc Chairman Nomination Committee including Deloitte UK Technology of Ernst & Young.
Medical Research Remuneration Fast 50 Award winners.
Council Chairman Committee Chair Board Committees: Nomination Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Changes to the Board In the financial year to 30 September 2014 and to the date of this report, there have been the following changes to the Board of Directors: Executive directors Non-executive directors Steve Hare CFO Appointed on 3 January 2014 Drummond Hall Appointed on 1 January 2014 Guy Berruyer CEO Retired on 5 November 2014 Inna Kuznetsova Appointed on 6 March 2014 Stephen Kelly CEO Appointed on 5 November 2014 Ian Mason Retired on 30 November 2013 Mark Rolfe Retired on 30 November 2013 62 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Inna Kuznetsova 46 Jonathan Howell 52 Neil Berkett 59 Drummond Hall 65 Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: 6 March 2014 15 May 2013 5 July 2013 1 January 2014 Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Inna is former Chief Commercial Jonathan is currently Group Neil has over 30years Previously Drummond was Chief Officer and Executive Board Finance Director of Close Brothers experience in a wide range of Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc member at CEVA Logistics, where Group plc, joining in February highly competitive consumer from 2002 to 2006, prior to which she worked from 2012 until 2014.
2008, and previously held the industries.
Most recently, he was the majority of his career was spent Prior to joining CEVA, Inna spent same position at the London Chief Executive of Virgin Media with Procter and Gamble, Mars 19 years at IBM, where she held a Stock Exchange Group plc from Group from March 2008 to June and PepsiCo.
Drummond was a number of different roles focusing 1999.
Jonathan has also been 2013, having joined ntl, Virgin non-executive director of Mitchells on building and running strong a non-executive director of Medias predecessor, as Chief & Butlers plc from July 2004 to organisations in sales, business EMAP plc and Chairman of Operating Officer in September January 2010 and Chairman from development and marketing, FTSE International.
Before ntl he was Managing June 2008 to November 2009. culminating as Vice-President, part of his career was at Price Director, Distribution, at Lloyds TSB Other current appointments: Marketing & Sales Enablement, Waterhouse where he qualified plc.
His previous roles include Chief WH Smith plc IBM Systems Software and ISVs.
Operating Officer at Prudential Senior Independent Assurance Company Ltd UK, Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Non-executive Director Head of Retail at St George Bank, None Close Brothers Group plc First Group plc Senior General Manager at the Group Finance Director Board Committees: Australian division of Citibank Senior Independent Board Committees: Non-executive Director Limited, Chief Executive at Audit Committee Eastwest Airlines Australia and Nomination Committee Audit Committee Chair Board Committees: Financial Controller at ICL Australia.
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Other current appointments: Nomination Committee Guardian Media Group Remuneration Committee Chairman Bank of Queensland Ltd Non-executive Director NSPCC member of the Board of Trustees Board Committees: Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63
