Executive Committee Stephen Kelly Steve Hare Richard Drury Ivan Epstein Santiago Solanas Pascal Houillon Alvaro Ramirez Michael Robinson Klaus-Michael Vogelberg 64 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Stephen Kelly 52 Pascal Houillon 52 Chief Executive Officer, Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer, North America and Brazil For Stephen Kellys skills and experience see page 62.
Based: US Experience: Steve Hare 53 Pascal leads Sages business in the USA, Canada and Brazil.
From 1997 Chief Financial Officer, Board of Directors to April 2011 he was CEO of Sage France, where he was also responsible For Steve Hares skills and experience see page 62. for Belgium, Brazil, Switzerland and Morocco.
Pascal joined Sage France in 1989 and went on to become Regional Director and Sales Director, Richard Drury 52 before leading the Sybel business after it was acquired by Sage in 1995.
Group Human Resources Director Starting his career as a systems analyst for UAP Insurance, Pascal co-founded Sinequanon in 1987, providing business management Based: UK solutions to SMEs.
He was also Vice President of Syntec, the French Experience: software and IT association, for nine years.
Richard is responsible for leading human resources at Sage.
His role is to develop and lead the implementation of our global strategy for Alvaro Ramirez 53 organisational design, reward, leadership development, performance, Chief Executive Officer, Europe talent, employee engagement and internal communications.
Richard Based: Spain joined Sage in June 2013 from technology business Invensys plc, where Experience: he held a number of human resources leadership roles including Group Human Resources Director, and was responsible for providing services Since January 2011 Alvaro has been responsible for Sages European to over 21,000 employees across Europe, the Americas, Asia and the strategy, operations and business performance.
Previously, as CEO of Middle East.
Prior to Invensys, Richard worked in human resources in Sage Spain, he grew the Spanish business both organically and through Whitbreads hotel and pub retail businesses and with British Airways, acquisition, transforming it into a market-leading software company.
where he held both HR and customer services leadership roles.
Alvaro joined Sage in 2003 after Sage acquired Grupo SP, which he co-founded in 1989.
He grew Grupo SP to become Spains leader for Ivan Epstein 54 entry-level business management software, with subsidiaries in Portugal Chief Executive Officer, AAMEA and across Central and South America.
Based: South Africa Michael Robinson 53 Experience: Company Secretary and Group Legal Director Ivan leads Sages businesses across Australia, Africa, the Middle East and Based: UK Asia, which include some of Sages highest growth countries.
Starting his Experience: career at Price Waterhouse, Ivan then co-founded Softline in 1988 leading it from start-up to a listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in 1997.
Michael joined Sage in 2002 as Company Secretary and Group Legal Softline was delisted and acquired by Sage in 2003, when Ivan joined the Director.
After reading Law at Oxford, Michael qualified as a solicitor Executive Committee as CEO of the Southern Hemisphere, becoming and spent 15 years at one of the UKs largest law firms.
Amongst his accomplishments, Ivan has Klaus-Michael Vogelberg 49 been awarded the Ernst & Young South Africas Best Entrepreneur accolade in 1999 2000 in recognition of his entrepreneurial attributes Chief Technology Officer and contribution to South African business.
He was also awarded the Based: UK Computer Society South Africa IT Personality of the Year accolade in Experience: 2009 for his contribution to the IT sector.
Responsible for Sages global technology strategy and software architecture, Klaus-Michael is also Acting Chief Technology Officer for Santiago Solanas 46 Sage Europe.
From 2004 to 2007 he was R&D Director for Sage UK Chief Marketing Officer & Ireland.
Klaus-Michael joined us when Sage acquired the German Based: Spain KHK Software group in 1997, where he was R&D Director and a partner.
Experience: A software entrepreneur, Klaus-Michael set up his first business aged Santiago has recently been appointed as Group CMO, after seven years 19 while studying aeronautical engineering and national economics.
He has been CEO of Sage Spain for the past fouryears, renewing the leadership team, restructuring the business, increasing its efficiency and returning it to growth in difficult economic circumstances in Spain.
During this time he has also been the Accountants Segment leader for Europe and has led the brand roll-out for the region.
He joined Sage in 2007 as Managing Director of the SSB division in Spain, after a career of over20 years in the IT and software industry, including brand, sales and marketing management roles at Oracle, Microsoft and IBM.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 65 Corporate governance report Our Governance framework The role of the Board and its committees Board Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and control, and corporate governance Our Board provides leadership to the business as a wholeto drive it forward for the benefit, and having regard to the views, of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that an effective internal framework of systems and controls is put in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and promotes success whilst permitting the management of risk to an appropriate level.
The Board sets the strategy for the business.
It has delegated the authority to manage the business to Stephen Kelly, Chief Executive Officer, who delegates specific responsibilities to members of the Executive Committee, including the development and implementation of strategy.
The Board also delegates other matters to Board committees and management as appropriate.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Chief Executive Officer Committee Todetermine the framework, To oversee the Groups To review the composition Executive Committee policy and levels of financial reporting, risk of the Board and plan for its remuneration and make management and internal progressive refreshing with recommendations to the control procedures and the regard to balance and Developing and implementing Board onthe remuneration work of its internal and structure as well as strategy, operational plans, of the Chief Executive Officer, external auditors.
budgets, policies and Chairman, executive directors, procedures: monitoring the Company Secretary operating and financial and senior executives.
performance: assessing and controlling risks: prioritising and allocating resources: and monitoring competitive forces in each area of operation.
Page 71 Page 76 Page 77 The terms of reference of each Board and Committee meetings and attendance committee, which are reviewed Audit Nomination Remuneration on an annual basis, can be Director Board Committee Committee Committee found on our website.
Donald Brydon 7 7 5 5 7 7 1 Guy Berruyer 7 7 The Board and each committee 2 are satisfied that they receive Stephen Kelly sufficient, reliable and timely 3 Steve Hare 5 5 information in advance of meetings Ruth Markland 7 7 5 5 5 5 7 7 and are provided with all necessary 4 Drummond Hall 5 5 4 4 5 5 5 5 resources and expertise to enable Jonathan Howell 6 7 5 5 5 5 7 7 them to fulfil their responsibilities and undertake their duties in Neil Berkett 6 7 5 5 5 5 7 7 5 an effective manner.
2 Joined the Board on 5 November 2014.
3 Joined the Board on 3 January 2014.
4 Joined the Board on 1 January 2014.
6 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2013.
7 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2013.
66 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board roles Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance and for monitoring and measuring the implementation of strategy.
Therole of Chairman also carries a particular responsibility Responsible for leading to monitor and assess Sages corporate governance practices.
the Board, its effectiveness and governance To ensure a proper dialogue with directors, the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors to assess their views.
In addition, the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
These meetings without the Chairman are chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman also ensures that shareholder engagement is discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access to the non-executive directors, through a request to the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Chief Executive Officer The responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer include: Responsible for the thedesign, development and agreement of strategy with the Board formulation of strategy implementation of thestrategy and policy and the running of the Group and running of the Group managing the overall performance of Sage, concentrating on revenue and profitability as well as capital expenditure The Chief Executive Officer also identifies acquisitions and monitors competitive forces, as well as ensuring an effective and motivated leadership team.
The Chief Executive Officer chairs the Executive Committee and maintains a close working relationship with the Chairman.
Senior Independent The role of Senior Independent Director is: Director To provide a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other Discusses any concerns than through the Chairman with shareholders Together with the other independent non-executive directors, to evaluate the performance of that cannot be the Chairman resolved through The Senior Independent Director is available to consult with shareholders.
the normal channels of communication Company Secretary The Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice and assistance, and is responsible for providing governance advice to the Board.
Ensures good information flows to the Board and its TheCompany Secretaryensures Board procedures are complied with, that applicable rules and regulations committees and between are followed andacts as secretary to the Board and all of the committees.
Minutes of all meetings are senior management and circulated to all directors.
He facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with professional non-executive directors development as required.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role.
These terms of reference are available on our website.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 67 Corporate governance report continued Focus of the Board for the year Tenure In the year under review, the Boards focus has been on strategy and ensuring that the structures, capabilities and reports are in place to support the Group strategy.
The Board has received regular reports 2014 from both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
02 years 75% In particular, in response to continued external changes discussed in 36 years 12.5% the Strategic report, time has been spent considering: 79 years 12.5% The move to cloud solutions and to a subscription-based customer relationship, including consideration and review of competitor activity in these areas The Payments businesses and external factors impacting their future Gender Actions taken to minimise the major risks faced by Sage, as described on pages40 to 43, have also been regularly discussed and the Board has looked at succession issues, particularly in light of recent and ongoing 2014 changes within our executive teams.
Male 75% The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it Female 25% for decision.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis, was last reviewed on 25 September 2014 and is available via our website.
The Board meets not less than six times per year.
During this year, it met seven times.
Board composition Executive Non-executive The Board is made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and five independent non-executive directors.
In order to evolve and develop not just our Board, but also our business, a number 2014 of changes were made to the Board during the year.
The directors have Executive 25% a range of experience and can bring independent judgement to bear on Non-executive 75% issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
This experience and judgement is considered vital to our success.
It is the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of those directors which ensures the duties and responsibilities of the Board and its committees are discharged effectively.
The Board carefully monitors the independence of its non-executive directors, particularly those who have given long service.
Having reviewed the current Board, the non-executive directors are all considered to be Conflicts of interest independent.
Donald Brydonwas considered independentat thedate The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage of his appointment.
conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
At each Board meeting, the All directors are subject to election or re-election by shareholders at each Board considers a register of interests and potential conflicts of directors Annual General Meeting.
and gives, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a Diversity conflict or potential conflict, with only those directors who have no interest The Board has due regard for the benefits of diversity in its membership, in the matter taking the decision.
No conflicts of interest have been identified during the year.
and strives to maintain the right diversity balance.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the composition of the Board includes individuals with Board effectiveness deep knowledge and experience, bringing a wide range of perspectives to the business.
The Board has adopted a written set of objectives for the financial year, against which it assesses progress at each meeting.
This ensures that the Sage continues to support the aims and objectives of The Davies Report Board focuses on key issues relevant to Sage and can monitor progress on Women on Boards.
The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report in all these areas.
The Board must continue to provide strong leadership at Sage, and, therefore, continues to appoint only the most appropriate candidates to the Board.
Whilst applying this policy in the Group, no measurable objectives have been set.
Further details of our policies in this area are set out on page 54.
68 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board and committee papers which are clear, focused and relevant This three step process questionnaire, ensure that the Board has the information it needs to consider the issues interview and board discussions has allowed relevant to the business.
The papersare issued on a timely basis to ensure that the Board and its committees have ample time to consider a full review of Board capabilities, operation and digest their contents and that the Board has the information it needs and governance.
Content and process issues to discharge its duties.
Regular attendance at Board meetings by key executives ensures that the Board has the opportunity to discuss the risks have been addressed both for the Board and opportunities within our business with leaders from across the Group.
Performance evaluation Dr Rob Goffee, Emeritus Professor of Organisational The Board recognises the importance of reviewing its practices and Behaviour at the London Business School performance on a regular basis andhas evaluated its performance and that of its committees and individual members.
In the past, Induction and professional development the Boardevaluated its performance in a number of different ways includingdetailed questionnaires and discussions between individual To ensure a full understanding of Sage is developed, new Board directors and the Chairman.
In this financial year, the Board used members undergo a full, formal and tailored induction programme.
an independent third party, Dr Rob Goffee, Emeritus Professor of During the year, Drummond Hall and Inna Kuznetsova received such Organisational Behaviour at the London Business School, to undertake an induction, which included: the review.
Dr Goffee has no other connection with Sage.
Each director completed a detailed questionnaire relating to the Board, its role and A full day meeting a team of our senior executives at a Group the interaction of its members.
This questionnaire was then used as and operating company level the basis for individual interviews with each director.
Visits to our business in the US and meetings with the heads of the European business The results and outcomes of the review were discussed by the Board as a whole, both with and without Dr Goffee present.
Key topics during Bespoke training as deemed necessary based on individual needs these discussions included board composition, diversity including gender To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, training is available diversity, the pattern of Board meetings, risk, shareholder engagement to all directors and training needs are assessed as part of the Board and succession.
As a result, new Board objectives have been set, taking evaluation procedure.
All directors have access to the advice and services into account the findings from the review.
In addition to the Board of the Company Secretary who ensures that directors take independent review, the Chairmans performance was evaluated by the Senior professional advice when it is judged necessary in order to discharge Independent Director through correspondence and discussion with their responsibilities as directors.
the Chairman and the other independent non-executive directors and was found to be effective, having regard to his continued time Board meetings are held at our operating companies both inside and commitment to his role.
Non-executive directors also visit our overseas operations on a regular basis.
This provides the Board and individual non-executive directors with the opportunity to broaden their understanding of Sage and the key markets in which we operate.
Risk management and internal controls The system of internal controls and risk management is designed to The risk management process is set to ensure risks are identified from a meet our particular needs and to address the risks to which our business top down strategic perspective as well as a bottom up local perspective.
By its nature, this system can only provide reasonable, Facilitated risk workshops are undertaken with the Executive Committee not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and it is and at each of the major territories within the Group.
Results from risk designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve management activities are reported to and discussed directly with the business objectives.
Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls.
Internal controls The effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk management Financial reporting is regularly reviewed by the Board, in compliance with the UK Corporate As part of the internal controls processes, we have specific procedures Governance Code, and such a review was undertaken during the year.
and systems to govern financial reporting.
The requirements for presenting financial information are governed by the Group Accounting Risk management Manual, against which the external auditors review the financial There is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage our statements.
Financial control requirements are set out in a Financial significant risks, as set out on pages 40 to 43.
This process is considered Controls Policy, which is subject to annual internal audit reviews.
Any to be an integral part of the internal controls environment and is managed part of the Group not subjected to an internal audit review of financial on a day-to-day basis by the Group Risk and Assurance Director.
This controls in any given year is required to self-assess and self-certify on process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of the the effectiveness of their financial control environment.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 69 Risk management and internal controls continued Whistleblowing Management representations covering compliance with relevant policies and the accuracy of financial information are collated on A whistleblowing telephone hotline service operates in most of our an annual basis operating companies, allowing employees to raise concerns in relation to dishonesty or malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
The Internal audit Audit Committee receives regular reports on any matters raised through Internal audit activities are provided by an in-house team supplemented these services and monitors the use throughout the Group.
under co-source agreements by third-party providers.
The role of Head of Internal Audit is undertaken by the Group Risk and Assurance Director Quality and integrity of personnel who has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and its Chair in The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high order to ensure independence.
recruitment standards and the provision of subsequent training and Internal audits role is to advise management and the Board on the extent development.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part to which systems of risk management and internal controls are effective.
The internal audit plan is determined through a structured process of risk Management structure assessment and the scope of work provides assurance over both key A clearly defined organisational structure exists within which individual risks and our main business functions.
responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The management The internal audit plan is flexed as necessary during the year to take into of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and account any key business changes.
During this year, key areas reviewed, the Executive Committee, as discussed on page 66.
Within the Group over and above financial, HR and IT controls, were the provision of online team there are a number of central administrative functions such as services, information security, storage of source code and compliance Group Treasury, Corporate Communications and Group Legal.
These with external regulatory and internal policy requirements.
The full plan was functions report to the Board through its executive members and the delivered during the year and the results were in line with expectations.
members of the Executive Committee.
Relations with shareholders A number of Group-wide policies, issued and administered centrally, have been set to ensure compliance with key governance standards.
Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
A full Annual These policies cover areas such as finance, data protection and Report& Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive one mergers and acquisitions.
and all information on Sages activities, published financial results and the Annual Report & Accounts can be found on our website.
There is The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and there are executive management teams.
Details of the authority delegated to local presentations to analysts after our announcement of the year-end and and regional management are set out in a delegation of authority matrix half-year results.
which is communicated to management throughout Sage.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses At each meeting, the Board receives an update on presentations to within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject investors and communications from shareholders to ensure that the to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board Board has an understanding of their views.
The Annual General Meeting and to Group policies and guidelines.
is used to communicate with private and institutional investors and the Board welcomes their participation.
Budgetary process A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets Information included in the Directors report for all operating companies being approved by respective local boards.
Certain information, fulfilling certain requirements of the Corporate Subsequently the combined budget is subject to consideration and Governance Statement, can be found in the Directors reportand is approval by the Board.
Management information systems provide incorporated into this Corporate governance section by reference.
the directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor For reference, relevant sections of the Directors report are: financial performance.
Substantial shareholdings Investment appraisal including acquisitions Deadlines for voting rights Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers Repurchase of shares proposals for research and development programmes.
Acquisition Amendment of the Companys articles of association activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment Appointment and replacement of directors appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and Powers of the directors post-acquisition management.
Monitoring and review By order of the Board There are processes in place to monitor the system of internal controls M J Robinson, Company Secretary and to report any significant control failings or weaknesses and planned 3 December 2014 mitigating actions.
These processes include: On an ongoing basis, the Sage operating companies certify that Sages policy requirements have been received and understood 70 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee Audit Committee Membership: Jonathan Howell Chair Neil Berkett Drummond Hall Inna Kuznetsova Ruth Markland Key objective To oversee Sages financial reporting, risk management and internal Our work continued to focus on the control procedures and the work of its internal and external auditors.
appropriateness of the Groups financial Committee meetings reporting, the rigour of external and All members of the Committee attend each meeting.
In addition, meetings internal audit processes, the Groups are usually attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary, the Director of Finance management of risk and its systems and the Group Risk and Assurance Director.
Other senior executives of internal control.
We also conducted attend as required to provide information on matters being discussed which fall into their area of responsibility.
The external auditors also a tender for the Groups statutory attend each meeting.
During the year, the Committee meets individually audit which resulted in the proposal to with the external auditors without executives present, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Risk and Assurance Director.
During the year, the shareholders to confirm the appointment Committee met five times four in accordance with its terms of reference of Ernst & Young LLP as Group auditors and an additional meeting on the external audit tender.
We provide Relevant financial experience more detail on these activities on the Jonathan Howell is Chair of the Audit Committee and, as a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and next pages.
the Chief Financial Officer of a FTSE 250 company, is considered by the Board to have the recent and relevant experience required by the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
All the other members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors who have a wide range of relevant business experience.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 71 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee continued Responsibility Activity in the year To review and advise the Board on: The interim and annual financial statements, the accounting The Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements policies used and on the significant issues in relation to the and reported to the Board on the appropriateness of the accounting financial statements policies and practices adopted.
As part of this review, the Committee considered the significantissuesin relation to the financial statements and received reports from the Group finance team and the external auditors on the Annual Report& Accounts Whether the Annual Report & Accounts taken as a whole is The Committee reviewed the results of processes put in place to fair, balanced and understandable provide assurance on this aspect.
The processes included the review and assessment of the Annual Report & Accounts by management and internal and external audit The effectiveness of the internal control environment and risk The Committee considered reports produced by the Risk and management procedures, including whistleblowing procedures Assurance team during the year and at the year-end as set out on page 74 The nature and extent of significant financial and business risks The Committee received and discussed detailed Group risk update to Sage and the mitigation of these risks reports during the year.
In addition, the Committee allowed time for in-depth reviews of particular risk and finance areas.
During the year, these areas considered included IT and data security, the future development of the finance function across the Group and risks specific to our Payments businesses In addition, the Committee is responsible for: Reviewing and approving the nature and scope of external and The Committee considered and approved the planned activities of internal audit work, the results of that work and managements internal audit along with the scope of the external audit for the year.
related responses Regular reports were received from internal and external audit and discussed by the Committee Setting and monitoring compliance with the policy on Thepolicy on non-audit services was updated and approved by the non-audit services Committeeduring the period.
Compliance with the new policy was confirmed during the year Ensuring the external auditors are effective and independent The Committee considered the independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process as set out on page 75 Making recommendations to the Board on external auditors The Committee conducted a formal tender process during the remuneration and appointment 2014 financial year with details of the process undertaken and the recommendations madeprovided on page 75 Financial reporting The Committee reviewed and considered the following areas in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of the interim and annual financial statements: The appropriateness of accounting policies and practices Compliance with external financial reporting standards and relevant statutory requirements Significant judgements made, as set out in more detail below Disclosure and presentation in the financial statements Whether the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Sages performance, business model and strategy The Committee considered the work, judgements and conclusions of the Group finance team and received reports from the external auditors setting out their view on the accounting treatments included in the financial statements.
The external auditors reports are based on a full audit of the annual financial statements and a review of the interim financial statements.
Processes are in place to ensure that assurance can be provided on whether the Annual Report & Accounts is considered to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee receives drafts and working papers relating to the Annual Report & Accounts in order to facilitateits review and input.
Management representations, external and internal audit reviews have also taken place to provide this assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board.
72 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Significant issues The significantissues considered by the Committee were as follows: Matter considered Action Revenue recognition The Committee considered a revenue recognition paper prepared by The key area of judgement and complexity is the timing management which set out the basis of the implementation of the accounting of revenue recognition, particularly in relation to the policies and practices in this area.
It also confirmed that no changes to the fair recognition and deferral of revenue on maintenance value allocation methodology had been made in the current year.
The paper and support contracts, for instance, where products also incorporated the benchmarking of accounting policy application by each are bundled operating unit Revenue recognition is an area of focus for  who performed detailed audit procedures and reported on their work to the Committee Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is an area of focus for the Committee given The Committee reviewed and considered a detailed report from management the materiality of the Groups goodwill balances and on the work undertaken and the assessments made in relation to the the evolution of Sages business model as it continues impairment testing of goodwill.
The report considered the determination to execute its strategy.
The judgements in relation to of CGUs, the future performance expectations of the businesses concerned goodwill largely relate to the assumptions applied in and the discount rates applied to future cash flow forecasts calculating the value in use of the Cash Generating Units The Committee also reviewed the assumptions underpinning the impairment CGUs and the ongoing appropriateness of the CGUs of the goodwill relating to the business in Brazil.
The Audit Committee reviewed being used for the purpose of impairment testing and challenged the sensitivity analysis including the macroeconomic environment and cost of capital assumptions used This was an area of focus for , who reported their findings and assessment to the Committee Archer litigation The claim for damages made by Archer Capital in relation The Committee received a report from management on the status to the potential purchase of MYOB, which continues to of the litigation and an update from the Group Legal Director on any be strongly rejected by management, continued to be new or relevant legal considerations considered in the current year  discussed the matter with management, the Group Legal Director, and external legal counsel and reported their findings and assessment to the Committee Tax provisions The Group recognises certain provisions and accruals in The Committee received a report from management detailing the key risks respect of tax which involves a degree of estimation and against which provisions had been made and the methodologies used to uncertainty for certain items whose tax treatment cannot determine the appropriate level of each provision based on advice from be finally determined until a resolution has been reached our external tax advisors with the relevant tax authority This was also an area of focus for , who reported on their work and assessment to the Committee The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 73 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee continued Taxation Risk management and internal controls The Committee received a report during the year from the Group Tax The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and Director on the Groups tax policy, approach to tax management and monitoring of its business.
The Committee reviews the framework status of compliance.
Any tax issues requiring significant judgement were of internal controls and the processes by which the Groups control presented to, and reviewed by, the Board or a designated committee.
environment is evaluated, the effectiveness of the internal controls environment and risk management procedures, including Internal audit whistleblowing procedures.
The Committee monitored and reviewed the scope and results of internal In this regard, the Committee received reports from internal audit on audits activities including the quality and timeliness of management the operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal controls responses.
The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Committee and procedures.
External audit has also provided input and observations at the beginning of the financial year, with any subsequent changes to the on the internal control environment.
Progress against the plan is monitored throughout the year.
Significant issues identified within audit reportsare Risk management considered in detail by the Committee along with the appropriateness of The Committee reviews the Groups risk management framework in mitigation plans to resolve those issues.
order to ensure it is appropriate and operating effectively.
In doing so, An internal audit charter is in place which outlines the objectives, the Committee received reports from the Group Risk and Assurance authority, scope and responsibilities of internal audit.
Performance Director, covering: against this charter, and the effectiveness of internal audit, is reviewed Risk appetite by the Committee on an annual basis.
The effectiveness of the risk management processes and their The Committee also considers and evaluates the level of internal adoption across the Group audit resource to ensure it is appropriate to provide the required level A summary of the most critical risks to the Group, controls identified of assurance over the key risks, processes and controls throughout to mitigate these risks and actions planned to reduce risks where the Group.
considered necessary The Board has an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group, details of which can be found on pages 40 to 43.
As part of its agenda, the Committee allowed time for in-depth reviews of particular risk areas.
During the year, the risk areas considered were IT and data security, the future development of the finance function and risks specific to our Payments businesses.
Whistleblowing and incident reports The Audit Committee receives regular reports on any mattersreported through the whistleblowing process.
The Group operates whistleblowing telephone hotline services in many of its operating companies, including those in the UK and US which, together with confidential reporting systems in other operating companies, allow employees to report matters of concern on a confidential basis.
In reviewing whistleblowing, fraud and incident reports, the Committee assesses the cause of the particular incidents, along with actions taken to resolve and prevent recurrence.
The Committee also reviewed compliance activities in relation to the Groups policies and received a report on the status of compliance with these policies.
74 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
