40 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Audit committee report reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Audit committees teRms internal controls and risk management oF ReFeRence systems ensuring that the process is active The Board expects the Audit Committee and dynamic: to have an understanding of: understanding the strategy at both Group the principles, contents, and and operational levels to ensure that developments in financial reporting, business risks and other relevant issues are including the applicable accounting effectively identified and communicated to standards and statements of the Board: recommended practice: reviewing the Groups Whistle-blowing the key aspects of the Groups Policy, to ensure that appropriate procedures operations, including corporate policies, are in place for employees to raise, in deAR shAReholdeR its products and services, Group confidence, any concerns that they may The Audit Committee has been established by financing, and systems of internal control: have relating to suspected malpractice, the Board and consists entirely of independent illegal acts, omissions or other unethical the matters that could influence or non-executive Directors.
The primary role of corporate conduct, regarding financial or distort the presentation of accounts and the Audit Committee is to maintain the integrity other matters: and ensuring that key figures: of the financial reporting of the Group and to arrangements are in place for investigation ensure appropriate risk management and the principles of, and developments in, of such matters and follow-up action: and internal control procedures.
To enable the company law, sector-specific laws and Audit Committee to fulfil this role, its main considering any other topics specifically other relevant corporate legislation: responsibilities include: delegated to the Committee by the Board the roles of internal and external auditing from time to time.
considering and making recommendations and risk management: and to the Board, and ultimately shareholders The Audit Committee is required to report its the regulatory framework for the Groups for approval, of the appointment of the findings to the Board, identifying any matters businesses.
external auditor, the audit fee, initiating which it considers that action or improvement tender processes in accordance with is needed, and to make recommendations as The full Terms of Reference of the Audit regulatory requirements, and any questions to the steps taken.
Committee may be found on the relating to the resignation or dismissal of Companys website.
composition oF the Audit committee the external auditor: Member Appointment date assessing annually the independence and The Audit Committee normally invites the Giles Kerr objectivity of the external auditor, its non-executive Chairman, Group Chief Committee Chairman compliance with regulatory requirements Executive, Group Finance Director, Group from April 2014 2 September 2013 and authorising the provision, if any, of Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit, and Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 non-audit services: senior representatives of the external audit firm Andy Hamment 8 April 2011 to attend its meetings, although it reserves the monitoring the integrity of the half-year and David Best was right to request any of these individuals to annual Accounts and related formal Committee Chairman withdraw from any meeting.
Company announcements, and reviewing until he retired from the significant financial reporting judgements The Audit Committee also holds separate Board in April 2014 1 May 2007 contained within them, before their discussions with the Head of Internal Audit submission to the Board: There was full attendance at each of the three and external auditor without executive management being present.
In addition, meetings of the Audit Committee held in 2014, discussing with the external auditor issues subject to the appointment dates shown the Chairman of the Audit Committee holds and reservations, if any, arising from the separate meetings with the internal and above.
Two members constitute a quorum for interim review and final audit and any other the Audit Committee.
The Group Company external auditor during the course of the matters the external auditor may raise: year to discuss both routine and businessSecretary acts as Secretary to the Audit reviewing and approving the terms of the Committee.
management representation letter David Best retired from the Board at the Periodically, the Audit Committees Terms of addressed to the external auditor: Reference are reviewed to take into account conclusion of the AGM 2014, at which point reviewing the effectiveness of the internal Giles Kerr was appointed Chairman of the current views on good practice and any recent audit function: considering the major amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Audit Committee.
findings of internal audit activities and Code.
In October 2014, the Audit Committee Collectively the members of the Audit managements response: ensuring coadopted new Terms of Reference, following Committee have significant commercial and ordination between the Head of Internal their approval by the Board of Directors.
financial experience at a senior management Audit and the external auditor and ensuring level.
Giles Kerr has the recent and relevant that the internal audit function is adequately financial experience required by the UK resourced and has appropriate standing Corporate Governance Code to chair the Audit within the Group: Committee.
For details of the qualifications of members of the Audit Committee, please refer to the Board Directors biographies shown on page 33. www.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 Activities oF the Audit committee The Audit Committee met on 21 February 2014 to consider the 2013 year-end report and during the subsequent 12 months conducted the following business on the meeting dates indicated below: Meeting date 17 July 2014 23 October 2014 19 February 2015 Standing Considered the external auditors Discussed and approved the Reviewed and accepted the Report to the items Interim Review for the half-year external auditors audit planning Audit Committee on the 2014 audit made ended 30 June 2014. report, including the scope of by the external auditor.
work, audit approach and fees Reviewed and approved the terms Reviewed key accounting judgements, for the 2014 audit.
of the management including consideration of those significant representation letter addressed Considered potential areas issues outlined on page 42. to the external auditor.
requiring key accounting Considered the materiality of any unadjusted judgements.
Reviewed key accounting audit findings.
Considered the appropriate level Reviewed and discussed the Groups of materiality and noted the Preliminary Announcement and the Annual Discussed the Groups Preliminary implication of applying different Announcement and the Interim Report & Accounts 2014 and the slides levels of materiality: the Audit for the analysts presentation on the Groups Report 2014, together with the Committee agreed to maintain slides for the analysts 2014 results.
the level at 7.5% of adjusted presentation on the Groups Reviewed and agreed the going concern basis profit before tax.
to be adopted for the 2014 Accounts.
Received an update from the Reviewed and agreed the basis Approved the Audit Committee report external auditor on accounting, for going concern to be adopted for 2014. reporting and governance for the 2014 Interim Report and developments.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk Accounts.
management and internal control systems and Received and considered a further Received and considered an disclosures made in the Annual Report 2014. update from the Head of Internal internal audit activity report, which Audit, noting the progress made Reviewed the Notice of Meeting for the 2015 provided an update on ongoing during the year, and agreed the Annual General Meeting and the 2015 Annual matters under review by the Head operations activities that would General Meeting Proxy Form.
of Internal Audit and the Audit be the key focus for review in the Committee.
Received and considered a report presented by coming months.
the Head of Internal Audit, which included the Approved the fees for non-audit Undertook a performance proposed 2015 internal audit plan, and work to be undertaken by the evaluation of the Audit approved the Group Internal Audit Charter.
Reviewed the status of the Business Carried out an appraisal exercise Continuity Plans and IT Risk Assessments on the effectiveness of the against Group policy.
Received an update on the progress of the Reviewed and updated the Groups anti-bribery training programme.
Audit Committee Terms of Considered the retendering of external Reference.
audit services, which is discussed in detail Considered the Group Whistleon page 43. blowing Policy and agreed no Held separate private meetings with the changes were required.
external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, without executive management being present.
com | Senior plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Audit committee report continued siGniFicAnt RisKs consideRed By the Audit committee Significant risks considered by the Committee How the risk was addressed by the Committee Goodwill impairment The carrying value of goodwill relies on assumptions and judgements The Audit Committee recognises the carrying value of goodwill as made by executive management.
a key area of judgement and as such closely reviews executive managements assumptions at both year-end and the half year.
Management performed an annual impairment assessment for all operating businesses at 31 December 2014.
In relation to the year ended 31 December 2014, a detailed review of the goodwill relating to the acquisitions of Thermal and Composites was undertaken.
For Thermal, which has been impacted by operational and performance issues following its acquisition in November 2013, executive management have considered projections which reflect the medium-term plan to recover the performance of the business but have recognised that trading conditions may be difficult and have therefore disclosed the factors which may contribute to a reasonable possible change.
The Audit Committee reviewed these assumptions and was satisfied with the managements view that no impairment was required.
On 20 January 2015, the Group was notified by Bombardier of the decision to suspend, for an indefinite period of time, the development of its L85 business jet programme.
This post balance sheet event triggered a subsequent review of the carrying value of goodwill at the Groups Composite business in Wichita, USA.
As a result, a goodwill impairment charge of 9.4m was taken in 2014.
This impairment is excluded from adjusted profit before tax.
The Audit Committee discussed the implications of Bombardiers decision with management and the external auditor and concluded that the impairment was reasonable and justified.
Acquisition accounting The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Upeca on The Group recognised goodwill of 36.5m and intangible assets 8 April 2014 for an aggregate consideration of MYR415m 75.5m of 17.8m on the acquisition of Upeca.
The Audit Committee held There is judgement in determining the valuation of the intangible discussions with executive management regarding the procedures assets and associated goodwill with the acquisition.
performed to fair value the assets and liabilities acquired.
The external auditor provided the Audit Committee with details of the audit work performed to assess that the assets and liabilities are held at fair value.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were appropriate and that the assets and liabilities are valued at fair value.
Provisions Provisions or accurals are held where management considers there The Audit Committee considered the basis upon which is an obligation, payment is probable and the amount payable can management had made its accounting judgements to determine be reliably estimated.
Provisions held by the Group include but are not limited to: These were further discussed with the external auditor.
those held against inventory: The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising from these significant areas of judgement.
central UK and US tax provisions: centrally held, primarily warranty-related: and workers compensation.
exteRnAl Audit a report from the external auditor describing The Audit Committees policy in respect of Independence of the external auditor the arrangements that had been made to services provided by the external auditor is and policy on non-audit services identify, report and manage any conflicts of as follows: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the interest and to maintain its independence: the external auditor is invited to provide independence of the external auditor, the overall extent of non-audit services services which, in its position as auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: provided by the external auditor: and it must or is best placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating to borrowings, the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit public report shareholder and other circulars, various on Deloitte.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43 other regulatory reports and certain work in Assessment of external audit In 2014, the Audit Committee discussed the respect of larger acquisitions and disposals: effectiveness resourcing of the internal audit function and the Head of Internal Audit highlighted the context As in prior years, the Audit Committee the auditor may provide tax compliance and reviewed the effectiveness of the external and background to the audit work undertaken.
advice where it is best suited.
In all material The Head of Internal Audit provided, to the auditor process, by assessing a range of key cases such work is put out to tender: and areas.
In 2014, the Secretary presented the Audit Committee, reports on the progress other services may not be provided where made on delivering the 2014 internal audit Audit Committee with a framework of precluded by ethical standards or where questions to facilitate a debate and to assist plan key findings and provides a status the Audit Committee believes that it update on the closure of previous internal the Audit Committee in assessing the level would compromise audit independence of auditor effectiveness.
of the 2014 internal audit plan, 18 internal required Audit Committee members to consider which areas of performance needed audit projects reviews had been undertaken All proposed contracts for services to be to support the business in improving the future focus by the auditor, the areas where provided by the auditor in excess of 25,000 the auditor was meeting expectations and management of risk and internal control: the require the Audit Committees approval.
audits focused on the Groups operations those where the auditor was considered to In 2014, the level of non-audit work undertaken have a special strength.
within the Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions by Deloitte increased, as the Group reviewed and key Corporate processes.
The Audit Committee discussed: the audit its tax arrangements and undertook a number partner and the team as a whole: the audit The non-executive Directors are actively of projects which required advice and planning approach and its execution: the role encouraged to visit the Groups operating assistance from professional advisers.
Fees of executive management in the audit process: businesses unaccompanied by executive for each category of non-audit work undertaken communications by the auditor to the Audit Directors.
This enables them to meet the local in the year are shown in the table below: Committee and how it supported the work management teams and employees and also Fees of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee undertake site tours to review matters 000 also discussed what insights the auditor had including production methods, health and Other tax advisory services 0.2 provided and where it had added value to the safety and the status of internal audit findings.
Total non-audit fees 0.2 overall audit process.
The Committee In 2014, a total of 28 site visits were Non-audit fees as a % of total concluded that the auditor had challenged undertaken by the Chairman and non-executive audit fees 29% the thinking of the Company and the Audit Directors.
These visits by the non-executive Committee on a number of significant issues Directors are viewed by the Audit Committee The Audit Committee considers that it was and maintained its independence.
as making a positive contribution to the internal beneficial for the Company to retain Deloitte control framework.
for this non-audit work because of the firms Feedback about the effectiveness of the audit conclusion expertise in this area and knowledge of the process from the local management teams Group.
The Audit Committee continues to was also considered by the Audit Committee.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in closely monitor the nature and level of such Following completion of the assessment non-audit work, in order to balance objectivity accordance with its Terms of Reference.
At process, the Audit Committee concluded that the meeting on 19 February 2015, the Audit and value for money.
it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the Committee considered each section of and Policy on tendering external auditor: as a consequence the Audit the Annual Report & Accounts as a whole, The Committee notes that the transitional Committee has recommended to the Board as proposed by the Company: it reached a guidance on audit tendering issued by the FRC that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditor conclusion and advised the Board that it indicated that the Company should tender the for 2015. considered the Annual Report and Accounts audit, at the latest, at the time of the next audit inteRnAl Audit 2014 to be fair, balanced and understandable partner rotation currently scheduled for 2019.
The Audit Committee is required to assist the and that it provided the information necessary The Committee also notes the final Order from Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to for shareholders to assess the Companys the Competition & Markets Authority which the effectiveness, resourcing and plans of the business model and strategy.
The Chairman applies for financial periods beginning on or Group internal audit function.
of the Audit Committee will be available at after 1 January 2015 and the new EU the 2015 AGM to answer any questions about Regulation under which it is likely that audit The Groups risk management and internal the work of the Committee.
firms in the UK will need to rotate every control procedures are reviewed by the Groups AppRovAl 20 years with a tender after 10 years.
Head of Internal Audit, who has direct access The transition rules set out in the Order and the to the Chairman of the Board and the Audit This Report was reviewed and approved by the EU Regulation mean Senior is required to rotate Committee respectively.
The Groups internal Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: auditors by 2023.
The Company may put the audit function is a key element of the Groups Giles Kerr audit out to tender at any time.
Deloittes risk management system and it operates Chairman of the Audit Committee performance is reviewed annually by the Audit independently of the external auditor to 27 February 2015 Committee and the matter will be reviewed on enhance the audit services utilised by an annual basis.
