STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 nominations committee report non-executive diRectoR chAnGes The Nominations Committee and the Board has regard to Lord Davies review into Women At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM held on 25 April 2014, on Boards February 2011.
The Board is dedicated to promoting diversity and equality David Best retired as a non-executive Director of the Company and Chairman of the Audit throughout the Group, regardless of geography or position.
The Committee regularly discusses Committee.
Giles Kerr, appointed to the Board in September 2013, replaced David Best as the benefits of diversification with regard to the Board and its Committees.
Chairman of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Giles industry In August 2014 Mark Rollins, Seniors current and financial experience make him a suitably Group Chief Executive, announced his intention skilled Chair of the Audit Committee.
to retire during the first half of 2015, consequently the four meetings held in 2014 independence saw a particular focus of the Committees The Nominations Committee and the Board still efforts on the appointment of a new Group consider all of the non-executive Directors to oveRview The Nominations Committee is chaired by Chief Executive.
be fully independent and free from conflicting interests which may cause difficulties whilst myself, and comprised of all non-executive Appointment oF GRoup Directors.
The Group Company Secretary carrying out their duties.
Senior considers the chieF executive current non-executive Directors to be proactive acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Senior In recruiting the new Group Chief Executive, managers and advisers are invited to attend in contributing their respective experiences and the Committee was keen to ensure that the skills gained from various industries.
There chosen candidate would have the right were four scheduled meetings of the personality to fit the Groups culture and the Conflicts of interests are fully disclosed by Committee in 2014.
Two members constitute necessary skills and experience to deliver Directors upon appointment and are reviewed a quorum for the Nominations Committee.
continued strong results, both financially and on an annual basis.
There was full attendance at each of the four operationally, in order to develop and oversee meetings of the Nominations Committee held Following the changes made in 2014, Iam the future progression of the Group.
A confident that we have the desired diversity of in 2014.
All of the Committees attendance comprehensive recruitment process was records are shown on page 32. skills, people, experience andapositive attitude undertaken with the support of The Zygos that will guide us in delivering shareholder value Partnership, which considered both internal The Committee is tasked with administering and forging a positive direction for the and external candidates.
the process for appointments, debating year ahead.
succession planning, regularly reviewing such The Committee, after taking into account all This Report was reviewed and approved by processes and overseeing the composition of relevant factors, recommended to the Board the Nominations Committee and signed on the Board.
The Nominations Committees full that David Squires, currently Chief Operating its behalf by: Terms of Reference can be found on the Officer of Cobham plc, be appointed as Group Companys website.
Charles Berry Chairman of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee enlists external The Board agreed the Committees consultancy firms to assist in the appointment 27 February 2015 recommendation and David Squires accepted of Directors to the Board.
The Company the offer of employment in January 2015. provides the appointed consultancy firm with Commencing on 1 May 2015, David will join a role description, together with the required the Group as Chief Executive-designate and skills and personal attributes to be considered.
will complete a one-month handover period The consultancy firm then filters a list of before taking over the role of Group Chief candidates down to a number of those that Executive from Mark Rollins on 1 June 2015. it feels meet the skills and attributes required.
The consultancy firm then conducts preliminary succession plAnninG In 2014 the Committee increased its focus interviews with the selected candidates, then referring them to Senior for interview, together onthe potential of internal employees and succession planning within the Group.
The with a written analysis on each candidate.
Candidates are subsequently interviewed by Head of Leadership Development is currently conducting a review of senior executive a number of members of the Board, with the final recruitment decision being taken by the succession planning, containing details of proposed talent development, the methods Board as a whole.
foridentifying and developing potential internal Following the appointment of a Director, a full candidates, ensuring that there is an appropriate and comprehensive induction programme is balance of internal and external recruitment for provided by the Company.
Within the induction the most senior positions.
The Committee also process, areas such as financial forecasts, spends time discussing the issue of succession Group strategy and philosophy are explained, planning for the various Board level roles.
together with other relevant topics.
Visits to the Groups operations are also undertaken: this involves the new Director meeting local management teams and learning about the key issues faced by each operation.
