36 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 corporate governance report chAiRmAns letteR I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate Governance Report for 2014 on behalf of the Board.
This report is intended to provide shareholders with a clear and meaningful explanation of what governance means to the Board and how this guides its decision-making process.
Good corporate governance is taken seriously across the Group: the Board sets the tone and takes the lead on all governance matters.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board reviewed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2014 and I confirm that the Company complies, and will continue to do so.
Charles Berry Chairman coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce RepoRt The Board delegates a certain number of its Section B: Effectiveness This Corporate Governance Report describes responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, The Companys Nominations Committee the manner in which the Company has applied Nominations, and Health, Safety & leads the process for Board appointments, the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Environment HSE Committees.
The Group and supervises management development Governance Code the Corporate Governance Chief Executive, together with the Executive and succession planning.
Committee, is responsible for the recommendations to the Board on all new implementation of the decisions made by the Board appointments and re-appointments, stAtement oF compliAnce with the Board and for the day-to-day conduct of the further details of which can be found on page coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce code Groups operations.
The Committee, which consists entirely of The Company has been in compliance with non-executive Directors, is chaired by Charles the Principles set out in Sections A to E of The Board meets formally on a regular basis Berry, its composition is shown on page 32, the Corporate Governance Code throughout nine times in 2014 : in addition there were and its Terms of Reference may be found on the year.
three meetings of the Audit Committee in the Companys website.
The Board considers 2014, together with five meetings of the ApplicAtion oF the pRinciples oF the all non-executive Directors of the Company to Remuneration Committee and four meetings coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce code be independent, having taken into account a list of the Nominations Committee.
There was The Principles of good corporate governance of relationships and circumstances that may full attendance at every Board meeting and are detailed in the Corporate Governance Code appear relevant in determining independence, Committee of the Board during the year under five areas.
These Principles have each in accordance with the Corporate with the exceptions noted on page 32. been reviewed by the Directors and are Governance Code.
Other Committees are appointed by the Board commented upon as follows: to deal with treasury matters and specific When appointing new Directors, the Section A: Leadership issues such as acquisitions and disposals.
Nominations Committee is fully cognisant of The Board is structured under a non-executive the benefits of diversity: the Boards policy The minutes arising from all Committee Chairman, and currently includes two executive on diversity is described on page 39. meetings are made available to the Board.
Directors and four independent non-executive Procedures are in place to ensure that all David Best retired from the Board at the Directors, who were selected for appointment Directors are properly briefed, so that conclusion of the AGM in April 2014.
Details because of their wide industrial and decisions taken by the Board are based on of the appointment of a new Group Chief commercial experience.
In addition, the the fullest, up-to-date, available information.
Executive are included in the Nominations Company has an Executive Committee, chaired The non-executive Directors are encouraged Committee Report on page 39.
The Zygos by the Group Chief Executive, comprising the to visit the Groups operations to meet the Partnership was the consultancy firm executive Directors and other key executives local management teams and discuss any appointed to manage the recruitment process within the Group.
Details of the members of issues that they may face.
At every Board for the Group Chief Executive, which was led the Board and of the Executive Committee are meeting there are reviews of operational, by the Chairman.
The Zygos Partnership has summarised on pages 31 to 33. financial and administrative matters.
Health, no other connection with the Company.
The Directors consider that an effective Board safety and environmental performance is A summary of the Directors biographies is in place which leads and controls the Group, reviewed by the Board on a regular basis: social appears on page 33.
All Directors receive with clear divisions of responsibility between and ethical issues, the agreement of budgets induction upon joining the Board and are the running of the Board and the running of the and levels of insurance cover are reviewed encouraged to update their knowledge and Groups businesses.
The Board is responsible for strategic decisions There is a procedure by which all Directors can To enable the members of the Board and affecting the Group, including the setting of obtain independent professional advice at the its Committees to discharge their duties commercial strategy and the approval of Group Companys expense in furtherance of their effectively, the Group Company Secretary budgets and financial statements.
It also duties, if required.
seeks to ensure that all relevant information approves significant financial and contractual is provided to the Directors in a timely manner, commitments made by the Group.
The Boards in advance of meetings.
Terms of Reference more fully describe the responsibilities of the Board and may be found on the Companys website.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 actions are taken to rectify any weakness in Following a formal review of the Board and its Communicating the Code and operating Committees by Independent Audit Limited in with integrity systems that may have been identified.
These actions, and the overall integrity of the 2012, the Board undertook a self-assessment Senior trains its employees on the exercise in 2014.
The reviews findings showed requirements of its Code of Business Conduct reporting system, are subject to regular scrutiny by the Audit Committee.
This process that the Board operated effectively throughout upon induction, educating them on what they the period and made some suggestions for its can and cannot do, and how to address any is also available to third parties, such as suppliers and customers.
The findings will be used ethical dilemmas they may face.
The Code is to help support the development of the Board reissued periodically to remind employees of confidentiality considerations, the outcome of each investigation is provided in so far as as the Group continues with its strategy to the required level of conduct.
The Groups grow profitability, both organically and by ethical procedures and Code of Business is possible, to the complainant.
Independent Audit Limited has Conduct the Code were reviewed in the Andy Hamment is the Companys Senior no other connection with the Company.
light of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and antiIndependent Director.
His position provides bribery training was rolled out across the Group In addition, in 2014 the Chairman undertook employees and third parties with an alternative in 2012: this training is now routinely operated a review of the performance of individual channel of communication to resolve issues if on an ongoing basis to new employees.
In Directors: this process involved one-on-one they have a concern that the Chairman, Group 2015, it is planned that all relevant employees appraisal interviews.
The results of the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director have will be required to complete a refresher course evaluation process are used to improve Board failed to resolve, or where such contact with on anti-bribery.
performance and to determine the training them is not appropriate.
Andy Hamment, in The Board verifies compliance with the Code Managing external sales agents consultation with the Directors, undertook an through its internal audit programme, ensuring The Board recognises the potential bribery and evaluation of the Chairmans performance, that employees have received the mandatory corruption risks posed by the markets in which and concluded that Charles Berry provided training and its businesses operate with the Group operates and, in particular, the use effective leadership of the Board.
Based on integrity at all times and in compliance with of third-party intermediaries it engages.
All the results of the performance evaluation the Code.
external sales agents working on behalf of process, the Chairman considers that all Operating with integrity and in an ethical Senior across the world are required to operate members of the Board, the Board collectively, manner builds trust with customers and other in compliance with the Supplier Code of and its Committees, continue to contribute stakeholders and underpins the Boards Business Conduct.
Local management effectively to the running of the Company.
conducts a due diligence and risk assessment In compliance with the Corporate Governance process prior to engaging or re-appointing any Human rights sales agent and issues them with the Code, Code, all Directors offered themselves for The Group recognises the importance of re-election at the Companys AGM 2014, with ensuring that they understand, acknowledge the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and accept its requirements.
In 2013, the Board the exception of David Best, who retired from UDHR and adheres to the core principles the Board at the conclusion of the Meeting.
updated the Supplier Code of Business and values defined within it.
The majority of Conduct and improved the guidance it provided At the AGM 2015, all Directors will again offer countries in which Senior operates have their themselves for election or re-election with the to the Groups operations, giving detailed own laws banning child labour and promoting information on how they should conduct exception of Mark Rollins who is to retire from human rights.
Senior monitors the ages of its the Board on 31 May 2015. due diligence and risk assess sales agents.
workforce across the world to ensure Section C: Accountability compliance and identify any potential Managing gifts and hospitality The Board determines the nature and extent succession issues.
The Board recognises that gifts and hospitality of the significant actions necessary to achieve have the potential to create a conflict of Senior does not restrict any of its employees in its strategic objectives and maintains a sound interest, or the perception of a conflict of any of the countries in which it operates from system of internal control.
As a result, there is a Group policy joining a trade union if they wish to do so.
Audit Committee reports to and, for certain restricting the receiving and giving of gifts Senior also works closely with its suppliers to matters, advises the Board of Directors.
and hospitality from, and to, third parties.
ensure that they at least meet internationally The Audit Committee Report on pages 40 to This policy requires that all gifts and hospitality recognised minimum requirements for 43 describes the role and activities of the Audit must be recorded.
The Head of Internal Audit workers welfare and conditions of Committee, together with the significant assesses compliance with the Groups gifts employment.
issues that it considered in relation to the 2014 and hospitality policy during audit visits.
Financial Statements and its relationship with Reporting and investigating concerns Improvements for 2015 the internal and external auditor.
and whistle-blowing In 2015, the Board will continue with the The Company encourages Group employees measures already established, to ensure that An explanation of how the Board assessed the to discuss any ethical concerns that they may effectiveness of the external audit process, all employees and sales agents understand the have with local management.
Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code the approach taken to re-appoint the external Auditor and the Companys policy on the As part of its internal control procedures, the of Business Conduct, as appropriate, and Company has a Whistle-blowing Policy that is comply with them: it will continue to ensure tendering of the external audit are to be found on pages 42 to 43. communicated throughout the Group.
This that all ethical concerns raised are thoroughly policy provides employees with the opportunity investigated.
The Board will also give increased to report suspected unethical or illegal focus to this area, by strengthening internal corporate conduct confidentially and audits on compliance with these Codes, anonymously.
All reports of suspected ensuring that the training and awareness of unethical or illegal corporate conduct are employees is fully effective and that the Code independently investigated and tracked from has been issued and acknowledged by all inception to resolution and, where necessary, sales agents.
com | Senior plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 corporate governance report continued Section D: Remuneration In 2014, Bindi Foyle moved from her role as The total issued share capital of the Company The Directors Remuneration Report on Group Financial Controller to the position of as at 3 March 2014 the date of the Notice of pages 44 to 59 describes the Boards approach Head of Investor Relations & Leadership Meeting for the AGM 2014, was 417.3 million to remuneration matters.
The purpose of this newly ordinary shares of 10p each.
The total number Remuneration Policy was approved by created Investor Relations role is to enable of proxy votes received for the AGM 2014 shareholders at the Companys AGM 2014 Senior to build and maintain an even closer represented approximately 71.70% 2013 and became effective on 25 April 2014. relationship with its existing and potential 73.73% of the issued share capital of the institutional shareholders on a regular basis Company.
All resolutions put to shareholders Section E: Relations with shareholders and to openly engage in a dialogue.
at the AGM 2014 were passed on a poll.
The Company maintains regular contact with its institutional shareholders and continued to No major shareholder requested a meeting Details of the electronic poll voting received consult with its major shareholders during early with any of the non-executive Directors during by the Company for the AGM 2014 resolutions 2014 when formulating the Directors the year.
The Senior Independent Director is are set out in the table below.
Twice a year, the Group also available to attend meetings with major Details of the votes to be received by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director shareholders upon request, so providing an Company for the AGM 2015 resolutions will undertake a series of meetings with the alternative channel of communication between be made available on the Companys website Companys major shareholders, following the the Company and its shareholders.
following the close of the meeting.
announcement of the preliminary full-year and The Company makes constructive use of its interim results, to discuss both the Boards Charles Berry AGMs to communicate with its private strategic objectives and the detailed Chairman shareholders.
A presentation on the Companys performance of the business.
During 2014, 27 February 2015 annual performance was given following the Companys non-executive Chairman also completion of the formal business at the 2014 attended the preliminary full-year and interim AGM, and a copy of the presentation, together results announcements made to analysts, in with other investor relations material, is March and August respectively.
available on the Companys website.
