Directors Report Leadership Our governance framework Gender diversity Male 7 Female 3 Board tenure 1 One year 5 2 Between one and three years 2 3 Three years 3 Our governance structure has been developed over several years to meet the increasing span and complexity of our businesses.
We have clearly defined roles and responsibilities at Board level and below it, to seek to ensure that decisions throughout the organisation are soundly based and risks are appropriately controlled and monitored.
The work that the Company has undertaken in relation to the Corporate Renewal programme has further developed our governance processes both at a Board level and throughout the Group in particular through an enhancement of the Serco Management System.
The role of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups businesses.
The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to deliver such long-term value, providing overall strategic direction within a framework of risk appetite and controls.
The Boards aim is to ensure that management strikes an appropriate balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering short-term objectives.
The Board is responsible for demonstrating ethical leadership and promoting the Companys values, culture and behaviours and for acting in a way that promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of the shareholders as a whole.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that management maintains systems of internal control that provide assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law and regulations.
In addition, the Board is responsible for ensuring that management maintains an effective risk management and oversight process at the highest level across the Group.
In carrying out these responsibilities, the Board must have regard to what is appropriate for the Groups business and reputation, the materiality of the financial and other risks inherent in the business and the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
The Board is also responsible for deciding other matters of such importance as to be of significance to the Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences.
Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved for approval by the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, approval of risk appetite, capital and liquidity matters, major acquisitions, mergers or disposals, Board membership, financial results and governance issues, including the corporate governance framework.
79 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership Meet the Board Alastair Lyons CBE 61 Rupert Soames 55 Angus Cockburn 51 Edward J Casey, Jr 56 Mike Clasper 61 Ralph D Crosby, Jr 67 Tamara Ingram 54 Rachel Lomax 69 Angie Risley 56 Malcolm Wyman 68 Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Alastair was appointed a Rupert joined Serco as Group Angus joined Serco on 27 Ed was appointed Group Chief Mike joined Serco as a Ralph joined Serco as a Tamara joined Serco as a Rachel joined Serco as a Angie joined Serco as a Malcolm joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director of Serco Chief Executive Officer on 1 May October 2014 as Group Chief Operating Officer in May 2014 Non-Executive Director in March Non-Executive Director in June Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Group plc in March 2010, 2014.
after serving as Acting Group 2014 and was appointed Senior 2011.
He is a member of the March2014 March2014.
January 2013. becoming Chairman at the Chief Executive Officer following Independent Director in Board Oversight Committee.
conclusion of the Companys his appointment to the Board in September 2014.
He is a member of on 17 November 2014, Alastair the Board Oversight Committee.
will step down once a new Chairman has been appointed.
Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Alastair is responsible for the Rupert is responsible for the Angus is responsible for the Ed is responsible for the Mike is Senior Independent Ralph is a member of the Board Tamara is a member of the Rachel is the Chair of the Angie is Chair of the Malcolm is Chairman of the Audit effective operation of the Board formation and implementation of Groups financial strategy and day-to-day operations of the Director and a member of the Oversight Committee.
Corporate Responsibility & Risk Corporate Responsibility & Risk Remuneration Committee and a Committee, he is also a member and oversight of corporate the Groups global strategy, as management, including Group, ensuring that the Corporate Responsibility & Risk, and Remuneration Committees.
Committee and a member of the member of the Nomination of the Remuneration, Nomination governance.
He is Chair of the well as the day-to-day reporting, forecasting, treasury business is efficient and effective Audit and Nomination Audit Committee.
and Board Oversight Nomination and Board Oversight management of the business and tax.
He shares responsibility and that proper service to Committees.
Committees and a member of operations and our relationships with the Group Chief Executive customers is conducted.
the Remuneration and Corporate with investors and other key Officer for our relationship with Responsibility and Risk stakeholders.
He provides shareholders and the City.
leadership to the Group and represents Serco to major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee.
Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: In his executive career Alastair Prior to joining Serco, Rupert Angus joined Serco from Ralph was Chairman of EADS Tamara is Executive Vice From 2003 to 2008 Rachel was Previously, Angie was Group HR Ed has been with the company Mike was previously the Group Malcolm, a chartered was Group Finance Director and served for 11 years as the Chief Aggreko plc, the FTSE-100 North America until his President at WPP, where she is Deputy Governor Monetary Director at Lloyds Banking Group since 2005.
Previously, Ed was Chief Executive of BAA plc from accountant, was previously an subsequently Chief Executive of Executive of Aggreko plc, the temporary power business, retirement from that position at Managing Director at Grey Policy of the Bank of England and prior to that she was Chief Executive Officer of Sercos 2003 to 2006 and Chairman of executive director and the Chief the National & Provincial Building FTSE-100 temporary power the end of December 2011.
In and was previously Permanent Executive Director of Whitbread where he served 14 years as Chief Americas Division.
Mike Financial Officer of SABMiller plc, Society.
When the society was business.
During his tenure at joined EADS in 2002 as Chairman 2013 Tamara stepped down after Secretary at the Department for plc until May 2007, having joined Financial Officer and latterly, member of the Executive was previously the Senior until his retirement in July 2011. acquired in 1996 by Abbey Aggreko, the market and Chief Executive Officer of completing nine years as a Transport, the Department for the Whitbread Group in 1989.
Under Eds Independent Director at ITV PLC Malcolm joined SABMiller in 1986 National he joined the Abbey capitalisation of the business EADS North America and also Non-Executive Director of The Work and Pensions formerly the brings corporate finance and leadership, the Americas from which he stepped down on She has also been a member of in South Africa and joined the National main Board as increased from 450m to over served as a member of the EADS Sage Group plc.
Previously, Department of Social Security accounting experience, gained business tripled in size and 31 December 2013 after eight the Low Pay Commission, and a board as Group Corporate Managing Director of its 5bn.
Prior to Aggreko, he was global Executive Committee Tamara chaired the Board of Visit and the Welsh Office.
across a variety of sectors whilst successfully integrated two years on the ITV Board.
Mike has Non-Executive Director of Biffa Finance Director in 1990.
In 1997 he with the software company Misys until 2010.
Previously, Ralph held London formerly the London working for highly competitive acquisitions: RCI in 2006 and SI an MA in Engineering from St plc and Arriva plc.
appointed to the board of became Chief Executive of the plc for five years, latterly as Chief numerous positions with Tourist Board from 2001 2011. global companies.
In SABMiller upon its listing on the pensions specialist NPI where he Executive of its Banking and Northrop Grumman Corporation, tenure at Aggreko he drove 1995 he was granted the title London Stock Exchange in 1999. led its demutualisation and Securities Division.
He spent the concluding over 20 years of through a programme of Prior to Serco, Ed worked for nine CBE, and received an Honorary He was Chief Financial Officer acquisition by AMP, subsequent first 16 years of his career at GEC service as President of their continuous improvement within years in the energy business, Doctorate from Sunderland from 2001 until his retirement in to which he joined NatWest in plc: in the last four years of his Integrated Systems Sector.
including President and Chief University.
1999 as Director of Corporate service at GEC he was to his industry career, Ralph Executive Officer of NP Energy Projects.
A chartered accountant responsible for the UK, African served as an Officer in the US Prior to Aggreko, Angus spent Inc. an energy marketing with an MA in economics from and Asian operations of Army.
Ralph has an MA in Public three years as Managing Director business he founded and later Trinity College Cambridge, Avery-Berkel.
He studied Politics, Administration from Harvard, an of Pringle of Scotland, a Division sold: President and Chief Alastair has been a NonPhilosophy & Economics at MA in International Relations of Dawson International Plc: five Operating Officer of Tenneco Executive Director of, Oxford University and was from the Graduate Institute of years at PepsiCo Inc. in a number Energy until it was sold for $4bn: successively, the Department for President of the Oxford Union.
International Studies, of senior finance positions, and as Group President and Work & Pensions and the Switzerland, and a BSc from the including Regional Finance Chief Financial Officer for LG&E Department for Transport.
He United States Military Academy Director for Central Europe: and Energy Corp.
Previously, Ed was awarded the CBE in 2001 for at West Point, New York.
several years at KPMG working in worked over ten years in his services to social security.
Angus is an investment banking and private Honorary Professor at the equity, including with The University of Edinburgh.
Blackstone Group and Fremont Group LLC External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Since 2000 Alastair has been Rupert is Senior Independent Angus is an experienced None Mike is currently Chairman of Ralph is a Non-Executive Tamara is currently a Trustee of Rachel is a Non-Executive Angie is currently the Group Malcolm is a Non-Executive Chairman of Admiral Group plc, Director of Electrocomponents Non-Executive Director and is Coats Group plc and Which?
Director of American Electric Save the Children UK.
Director of HSBC Holdings plc, Human Resources Director of Director and Audit Committee the direct motor insurer, and in plc and a member of its currently serving on the Board of Limited.
Mike was also appointed Power Co Inc. in the United Heathrow Airport Holdings J Sainsbury plc, and a member Chairman of Imperial Tobacco 2008 he was appointed Deputy remuneration, nomination and GKN plc where he is a member of President of the Chartered States and Airbus Group, N. V. in Limited, and a member of the of the Sainsburys Operating Group plc and Senior Chairman of Bovis Homes Group audit committees.
the audit, remuneration and Management Institute CMI from the Netherlands.
supervisory board of Arcus Board.
Independent Director and PLC, one of the UKs leading nomination committees.
Audit Committee Chairman quoted house-builders.
In of Nedbank Group Limited in February 2011 he was appointed Rachel is a trustee board South Africa.
Chairman of the Towergate member of Imperial College Insurance Group.
London, the Institute of Fiscal Studies of which she is also President, Ditchley Park, Breugel and City UK.
80 Directors Report Alastair Lyons CBE 61 Rupert Soames 55 Angus Cockburn 51 Edward J Casey, Jr 56 Mike Clasper 61 Ralph D Crosby, Jr 67 Tamara Ingram 54 Rachel Lomax 69 Angie Risley 56 Malcolm Wyman 68 Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Alastair was appointed a Rupert joined Serco as Group Angus joined Serco on 27 Ed was appointed Group Chief Mike joined Serco as a Ralph joined Serco as a Tamara joined Serco as a Rachel joined Serco as a Angie joined Serco as a Malcolm joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director of Serco Chief Executive Officer on 1 May October 2014 as Group Chief Operating Officer in May 2014 Non-Executive Director in March Non-Executive Director in June Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Group plc in March 2010, 2014.
81 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership Roles on the Board Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Leads the Board and ensures that it is effective in all aspects of its role.
Leads the business to develop and deliver the Groups strategy and Takes a leading role in determining the structure and composition of the business plans as agreed with the Board.
Provides inspirational leadership across the Group, setting the tone from Manages the business of the Board, ensuring that it facilitates the Board the top to promote the Companys values and the highest ethical to fulfil its role and function and, in doing so, ensuring that: behaviour by all employees.
the Directors receive timely, accurate, concise and clear information.
Develops, motivates and retains a strong, professional and internationallythe Board invests sufficient time on each matter for effective minded senior management team capable of meeting the challenges consideration and decision-making, in keeping with the relative associated with the Companys long-term growth strategy.
importance of each matter and especially for complex or strategically Identifies strategic opportunities to enable the Group to grow and important issues.
differentiate itself, and agrees with the Board a roadmap to realising Provides appropriate counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive those opportunities.
Accountable for the Groups performance and operational management, Takes a leading role in the development and succession needs of the including its: Board, and the effective performance of each Director, including: operational governance: promoting the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors.
ethical compass: ensuring that new Directors receive an effective induction.
profitability: competitive market position: risk management and internal control systems.
Maintains a close relationship of trust with the Chairman, seeking appropriate counsel and support whilst preserving executive responsibility.
Leads the executive team, setting a personal example, building team spirit, ensuring clear lines of communication, developing individual and team capabilities, and ensuring that robust succession planning processes are in place.
Acts as an effective ambassador for the Group, developing and maintaining strong relationships with current and potential customers, and key stakeholders.
Proactively promotes the Groups investment case to investors and listens to the views of major shareholders on key issues affecting the Group.
Communicates both internally and externally the Groups culture and values, key strategic imperatives and performance of the business, ensuring that a clear sense of purpose is conveyed.
Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Provides leadership in the continuous evaluation of short and long-term Leads the day to day implementation of the Groups strategic and strategic financial objectives.
Provides accurate and timely financial information and analysis to ensure Directs the following Group functions: Corporate Strategy, Mergers & performance trends are clear and decision making is based on rigorous Acquisitions, Information Technology, Communications & Government financial analysis.
Relations, Corporate Shared Services, and Compliance & Risk Directs and oversees all aspects of the Finance and Accounting functions Management.
of the Group including the recruitment and development of the team: Provides oversight of the day-to-day operations of the business.
responsible for Tax, Treasury and Investor Relations Alongside the Group Chief Financial Officer leads the monthly Divisional Evaluates and advises the Board on the impact of long range planning, Performance Reviews.
introduction of new programs strategies and accounting standards.
Supports the Group Chief Executive Officer in strategic planning and Provides the Executive Committee with advice on the financial developing and executing implementation plans, including plans to drive implications of business activities.
growth through the development of global capabilities and to achieve Manages processes for financial forecasting, budgets and consolidation operational improvements and cost savings by better utilising corporate reporting.
shared services and lean principles.
Ensures that effective internal controls are in place and ensures Chairs the Group Investment Committee review and approval of compliance with appropriate accounting regulations for financial and tax investment decisions, including acquisitions and disposals, bid approvals reporting.
and parent company support mechanisms.
Accountable for delivery of the Corporate Renewal Programme, including responsibility for the Serco Management System, the accurate reporting of operational performance indicators and the adoption of robust compliance and risk management processes.
Working with the Group Chief Information Officer, ensures that the information systems are appropriate to support the operational performance of the Group and the delivery of the strategic plan, and are robust in terms of data and information security.
Has oversight over insurance and pensions matters.
82 Directors Report Roles on the Board Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and assists him in the delivery Constructively challenge and contribute to the development of the of his objectives as requested.
Groups strategy and business plans.
Provides an alternative point of contact for principal shareholders if they Ensure that the Group upholds high standards of integrity and probity have any concerns that are unresolved through normal channels of with appropriate oversight over the effective embedding of the agreed communication.
culture, values, and ethical compass.
Seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the views and concerns of Maintain effective oversight and review of the Groups performance principal shareholders.
against agreed goals and objectives, and of the performance of the Takes a leading role in the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Should it become necessary, leads an orderly succession process for the Maintain an effective understanding and oversight of the Groups Chairman.
In the unlikely event that there is a serious failure in Board governance, or Satisfy themselves as to: where normal Board functioning is seriously impaired or the Chairman is the integrity of the financial statements and all other formal unable to act: announcements.
will act as an intermediary where necessary: whether, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, will intervene to resolve the issues and restore the Board to effective balanced and understandable.
whether the Groups risk management and internal control processes, including those relating to the financial reporting process, are robust and defensible.
whether the Board has robustly assessed the solvency and liquidity risks faced by the Group.
Taking primary roles in: appointing and, if necessary, removing Executive Directors, and in Board succession planning.
the Boards determination of remuneration policy for the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee members and the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters.
Assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Board procedures are followed and that there are good information flows, together with facilitating induction programmes for newly appointed Directors.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association include provisions reflecting recommended practice concerning any Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board has in place procedures for Directors to report any potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest, only non-interested Directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter under consideration are able to take the relevant decision acting in a way they consider, in good faith, is most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving any authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
The process of reviewing conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of Directors conflicts, which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
83 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership How the Board operates The Board and its committees Currently the Board has ten members: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Board organises itself with clear divisions of responsibility so that no individual or group of individuals has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Whilst each constituent of the Board carries out distinct but complementary roles and responsibilities, collectively all Directors work for the long-term success of the Company.
Many key Board responsibilities are referred to four standing Board Committees: the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committees.
This structure allows particularly detailed or complex matters to be given special scrutiny and oversight.
The Board has a fifth committee, the Approvals and Allotments Committee.
This Committee comprises the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and meets on an ad hoc basis to approve proposals that have more operational significance but do not merit full Board consideration.
There is a sixth Committee, the Board Oversight Committee, which was formed in 2013 to oversee the Corporate Renewal Programme.
The Board Oversight Committee will remain in place to monitor the further embedding of the policies and procedures that have been put in place as part of the Corporate Renewal Programme.
Except where decisions are specifically delegated, each Committee reports and submits recommendations back to the Board for its review and, where necessary, decision.
Each Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference, which are reviewed annually by the respective Committees and, if necessary approved by the Board, to ensure they remain appropriate and reflect any changes in good practice and governance.
The Terms of Reference are all available online at www.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Board and the four standing Committees meet with sufficient frequency to fulfil their respective responsibilities, using structured but flexible agendas to ensure that regular matters are addressed properly, while allowing time to discuss significant new issues.
More information on the work and performance of the Board can be found in the following pages.
Separate reports describing the activities of the Audit, Board Oversight, Corporate Responsibility & Risk, Nomination, and Remuneration Committees are presented on pages 92 to 125.
Conduct of meetings Board meetings are scheduled eight times a year.
The Company uses an electronic portal to ensure that papers are provided in a timely manner.
Board meetings are held over one, two or three days and are structured to allow open discussion of the strategy and trading and financial performance of the Group.
To facilitate a proper understanding of the Groups businesses, Board and Committee meetings are held at varying locations and the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of the Board with site visits and Divisional presentations and discussions.
Additional Board meetings are held as required.
Board decisions are usually taken by consensus.
Exceptionally, if a decision is to be taken by vote, the Chairman has a second or casting vote.
Reserved matters There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: the Group strategy: annual financial and operating plans: major contract bid decisions, capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: annual and half-year financial results and satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information: the Companys dividend policy: ensuring there are adequate succession plans for the Board and senior management: appointing and removing Directors, the Company Secretary and committee members: setting and reviewing risk management and treasury policies: setting levels of operational delegated authorities: agreeing the Groups culture, values, and ethical compass: reviewing the Groups overall governance arrangements: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Committees are given on pages 92 and 100.
Each Committee has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
