Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Audit Committee Report Chairmans overview The Audit Committees primary roles are to support the Board in monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Companys financial information, ensure that the internal controls are robust and operating properly, and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the reappointment of the Companys external auditor.
During the financial year, the Group undertook a Strategic Review as more fully set out in the Strategic Report on pages 29 to 30 which encompassed, inter alia, detailed reviews of the Groups contracts and balance sheet in order to provide it with a stable financial foundation for future growth.
The Group also renegotiated the terms of its existing loan financing agreements and put in place arrangements to carry out a rights issue in the first quarter of 2015.
The Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews outcomes include significant provisions being made for onerous contracts, significant impairments for goodwill, other intangible assets and tangible assets, and other related provisions and charges being made, all as described in the Financial Review on pages 45 to 66.
The Review has required significant judgements to be made by management, and the key judgements and how these issues were addressed by the Audit Committee, are included in this report.
The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and to review significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
To review, approve and monitor the internal audit programme to ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company, and to assess the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
To maintain oversight of the external audit activities including discussing with the external auditors, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to review the auditors quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditors to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.
To review managements and internal auditors reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal controls, and financial reporting.
To consider the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor, and assess their independence and objectivity, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals and relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements are taken into account as including the provision of non-audit services.
A copy of the Committees full Terms of Reference is available online at www.
Membership and meetings The Audit Committee consists of Non-Executive Directors only with all members being independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee currently comprises Malcolm Wyman, who chairs the Committee, Mike Clasper and Rachel Lomax.
All members of the Committee are considered to meet the Codes requirement of having recent and relevant financial experience.
The UK Corporate Governance Code sets out that the Committee should have at least three members throughout the year.
Until Mike Clasper and Rachel Lomax were appointed to the Committee in March 2014, the Committee had two members and was therefore not in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In order to maintain effective communications, the Audit Committee invites the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, the Group Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller to all meetings as well as the Head of Internal Audit, KPMG LLP the Groups co-sourced internal audit provider, the Senior Statutory Auditor, for Deloitte LLP, and other members of the management team as required.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported to the Board on how the Committee had discharged its responsibilities.
The Committee met five times during the 2014 financial year, along with three times in 2015 up until the publication of the 2014 results announcement.
Of these meetings, four were called specifically to consider matters and announcements relating to the Strategic Review, the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews and the rights issue, whist these matters were also on the agenda of certain of the meetings held within our normal reporting cycle.
The Committees Terms of Reference provide that it will meet at least four times per annum at key times within the reporting cycle.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Significant issues considered by the Committee The Audit Committee discharged fully its responsibilities listed above and, in doing so, considered the following key matters: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including the Corporate Governance Report and statement of Directors Responsibilities, for inclusion in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and also in respect of those for the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2014 Half Year Report and Auditors Report thereon and the Interim Management Statements issued during the year.
The Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews and outcomes, and the disclosures pertaining thereto in various announcements and reporting to shareholders.
Accounting issues, judgements and information to support the statements including but not limited to going concern, revenue recognition, onerous contract provisions, impairments and exceptional items.
The annual audit plan of the external auditors and the 2014 external audit fees.
Pre-approving any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and ensuring that the provision of non-audit services did not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Evaluation and independence of the Audit Committee and its members.
The continuing independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The implementation of the 2014 internal audit programme and approval of the proposed 2015 programme.
Reviewing the internal control environment processes and systems.
The Committees work plan for the year ahead and a review of its achievements against the Committees Terms of Reference.
92 Directors Report Significant issues and key judgements Contract and balance sheet reviews Nature of issue The most significant issue considered by the Audit Committee in 2014 related to the output from the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews performed during the fourth quarter.
This review was undertaken as part of the Strategy Review that was carried out by the Group in 2014.
Full details of the outcome of the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews are given in the Finance Review on page 49.
Given the scale and significance of the resultant impairments and onerous contract and other provisions, the Audit Committee spent a considerable amount of time discussing and challenging management on the significant estimates, assumptions and judgements made by management during the course of the review, and also on the content and outcomes of this review.
Action taken Outcomes Among the elements considered by the Audit Committee was the scope The Audit Committee formed the opinion that the initial structured of the review.
The Audit Committee supported the engagement of Ernst interview and financial review process for segmenting all contracts by risk & Young LLP to provide financial reporting and accounting advice in was appropriate and thorough, and considered, through detailed connection with the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews, and also discussion with Ernst & Young LLP, that the work programme for each challenged the scope of the review to ensure that it was appropriately category of risk was appropriate.
The Audit Committee also considered various principal contract reviews that were being undertaken as part of the Corporate Renewal Programme to ensure that any issues arising from this work were taken into account and included in the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews.
The Audit Committee met regularly to review progress and challenge The Audit Committee considered levels of provisioning including the management on the process and results of the Contract and Balance potential range of outcomes on key contracts and satisfied itself that the Sheet Reviews.
In all, three additional meetings were held prior to the overall provisions were appropriately positioned taking account of the publication of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
These meetings range of possible outcomes on long term and complex contracts.
reviewed in detail the results of the review and the key accounting papers to assess whether there was any evidence of bias in managements assessment of accounting treatment and determination of the levels of provisioning, and particularly long length and or complex contracts with inherent uncertain outcomes.
As part of the Audit Committees detailed review and challenge, the The Audit Committee concluded that prior period errors that have been Committee also focused on whether there was evidence that impairments identified are immaterial other than in relation to a Treasury adjustment and provisions should have been identified in a prior year based on relating to a hedge that is in place and correctly documented in India but information available, or which should have been available at the time, for which the original documentary evidence could not be located to and might therefore be categorised as errors.
To support this work the confirm the hedge applied at Group level since inception.
As a result of Committee engaged Ernst & Young LLP to establish whether there was this documentation issue, a prior year adjustment was identified to reflect evidence of error or not.
The Audit Committee discussed these issues the restatement of financial instruments, giving rise to a net charge of with the External Auditor.
5.6m against prior year reported profits, which included a net credit to the 2013 income statement of 3.0m.
These amounts had previously been taken directly to reserves, and as a consequence there was no adjustment required to restate the net assets of the Group as at 31 December 2013 or prior years.
Further details are included in the Finance Review on pages 45 to66.
The Audit Committee reviewed the treatment of items considered as The Committee concluded on which items were exceptional, and that being exceptional and therefore requiring separate disclosure to assist they have been reported as such.
the reader in understanding the results of the Group.
Management prepared documentation to support the Financial Statements which was reviewed and challenged by the Audit Committee in light of the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in December 2013, and discussed with the External Auditor.
The Audit Committee also considered the appropriateness of the The Committee concluded that the accounting policies were appropriate.
accounting policies and instructed both Ernst & Young LLP and management to carry out a detailed review of policies, and discussed the policies with the External Auditor.
93 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued Tax and deferred tax reporting Nature of issue The Group is exposed to various claims raised by tax authorities in the normal course of business, generally in territories outside of the UK.
Any such claim is assessed with regards to the local tax laws and makes provisions based on the best estimate of the likely outcome when an unfavourable outcome is considered probable.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences in relation to fixed assets and carried forward losses.
These losses largely arose as a result of the settlement with the UK Government in 2013 and trading losses from onerous contracts in both the UK and Australia.
At 31 December 2014 total deferred tax assets were 38.6m 2013: 57.9m.
Recognising such assets requires an assessment of their likely utilisation recovery, which includes an assessment of the taxable profits expected to be made in each of the relevant jurisdictions.
Action taken Outcomes The Committee has reviewed the summary documentation prepared by The documentation has been challenged and the Audit Committee is management supporting the provisions made and that relating to satisfied that the conclusions reached are appropriate.
In particular, the significant claims not provided for.
Committee agrees with the conclusion reached by management regarding the claim by the Indian Authority for Advance Rulings disclosed in note 32 to the financial statements.
Consideration has been made as to whether it is appropriate to recognise The Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate to recognise the deferred the full value of the deferred tax asset at the year end and whether the tax assets in the Groups balance sheet.
recovery of the associated tax losses can be foreseen.
Management have Contingent deferred tax assets of 180m exist off balance sheet.
presented the relevant documentation needed to scrutinise the Recognised deferred tax assets of 37.4m have been recognised in the conclusions reached, including forecast information.
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment Nature of issue The Group has made several acquisitions over the years and has invested in a number of systems and products to benefit future periods, which resulted in carrying values for goodwill of 1,270.8m and other intangible assets of 176.8m.
As a result of the Annual Impairment Review, both goodwill and other intangible balances were impaired and the balances remaining at the 2014 financial year end were 820.6m see notes 20 and 41 to the financial statements, and 123.8m see notes 21 and 41 to the financial statements respectively.
Details of the Groups goodwill and intangible assets is provided in notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements, and details of the judgements applied can be found in note 3 to the financial statements.
Core to the assessment of the value of the goodwill and other intangible assets is managements estimate of the future cash flows associated with them, which is dependent on circumstances both within and outside of their control, and discount rates that are adjusted to reflect risks specific to individual assets.
Action taken Outcomes The methodology and results of the impairment tests were presented to The Committee is satisfied that the assumptions underlying the the Audit Committee by management and were subject to scrutiny and impairments made in the year are appropriate and that the assessment of review.
The Committee placed particular focus on changes in discount the remaining balances is appropriate.
rates applied and ensuring that the underlying cash flows are consistent with the Board-approved strategy and forecasts.
The disclosures made in the financial statements have been reviewed to The Audit Committee have concluded that the disclosures provided in ensure that they provide the appropriate level of information to the users the financial statements are transparent and in compliance with financial of the accounts.
94 Directors Report Going concern Nature of issue Consideration of the going concern risk is a fundamental responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has given this matter its full attention.
The going concern assertion has a significant impact on the financial statements in terms of both the valuation of assets and liabilities held and the presentation of assets and liabilities as non-current.
The Audit Committee has taken due consideration of the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Going Concern and Liquidity Risk guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Further details of the Directors assessment of going concern is provided in 65.
Action taken Outcomes The Committee has challenged the going concern assessment prepared The Committee considers the going concern review to have been by management and reviewed the work performed to support the rigorous and is satisfied that the conclusion reached is appropriate.
The working capital statement in the Groups Rights Issue prospectus.
These Committee has considered the opinion given by Deloitte LLP in their issues were discussed with the External Auditor.
audit report and it agrees that there is uncertainty due to the dependency of the Rights Issue on shareholder approval.
The Committee considers that, on the basis that this can be expected to occur, the assessment of going concern is appropriate.
Consideration was given by the Audit Committee to the period of review, As the going concern review has been prepared for 24 months to which is expected to be a period of at least 12 months from the date of December 2016, the Audit Committee has concluded that the period approval of the relevant financial statements.
covered by the review is appropriate.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the going concern disclosures made The Committee is satisfied that page 144 of the Annual Report and in the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that they are balanced, Accounts includes detailed disclosures regarding going concern, and in proportionate, clear and give a true and fair view.
particular disclosure of the conditionality on the Rights Issue and agreements regarding loan financing.
Restructuring costs Nature of issue 2014 has been a period of unprecedented change for the Group, as a result of the change in executive management and the subsequent Strategy Review.
This has had a significant impact on the future direction and focus of the business and includes a Group-wide restructuring programme which will continue through 2015.
Management has concluded that these restructuring costs are exceptional in size and nature, and as they are directly linked to the Strategy Review, they are one-off in nature.
This conclusion, and determining whether all obligations for future costs have been appropriately provided for at the year-end, requires judgement to be applied.
Action taken Outcomes Management were challenged regarding the non-recurring nature of the The Audit Committee has concluded that it continues to be appropriate expense to ensure that business as usual costs were not included in this to treat these restructuring costs as exceptional and that all obligations expense.
For exceptional provisions documentation prepared by have been correctly provided for.
management supporting the treatment was discussed and reviewed.
95 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued Defined benefit pension schemes Nature of issue The Group is responsible for paying contributions into a number of defined benefit pension schemes directly linked to contracts in addition to the main company scheme, Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS, and several other small non-contract specific schemes.
SPLAS has a significant pension asset at the end of the year of 143.9m 2013: 64.2m and the other schemes have a combined pension liability of 17.4m 2013: 11.3m.
The value of the individual schemes fluctuates due to changes in underlying assumptions, which include the forecast bond yield rates and the forecast inflation rate.
During the year a settlement was reached with the Trustees of the Docklands Light Railway Pension Scheme, a contract specific scheme where a dispute had arisen prior to the end of our obligation period.
A total of 35.6m will be paid including legal costs of 2.6m.
33m will be paid in four equal annual instalments from January 2015 to January 2018.
Further details of the pension arrangements can be found in note 34 to the Groups financial statements.
Action taken Outcomes The Committee considered both the process management undertook to The Committee concluded that the process followed was appropriate and finalise the assumptions for the main schemes, and how these the resulting calculation appropriately balanced.
assumptions benchmark against the market.
Advice was taken from independent actuaries on the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
The Audit Committee has considered whether the Group is exposed to The Committee agrees with managements assessment that there are no any additional payments similar to the settlement reached with the material exposures to potential settlements with Trustees of the schemes Trustees of the Docklands Light Railway Pension Scheme through review into which contributions are paid.
of managements risk assessment and after taking advice from both external advisors.
Contingent liabilities Nature of issue As with any business, the Group is exposed to a number of potential legal claims and exposures.
Where these claims have been assessed as being likely to result in a payment being made to settle an obligation, these amounts have been provided for.
No material charges were incurred in 2014.
In circumstances where management have assessed that there is a more than remote chance of payment, but less than likely considered to be in the range of 5% to 50% likelihood, disclosure is made in the notes to the financial statements see note 32.
Action taken Outcomes The Audit Committee has reviewed the documentation provided to it by the The Committee is satisfied that managements assessment is complete Groups General Counsel.
All material matters have been discussed in detail and the assessment of likelihood for material matters is appropriate.
and the assessments made and processes followed have been challenged.
The Committee has reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements.
The Committee agrees that appropriate level of disclosure is made, considering the likelihood of outcomes and the level of commercial sensitivity involved.
Internal audit The Audit Committee has oversight responsibility for the Internal Audit function, and reviews and approves the internal audit programme.
It also reviews and has oversight over reports issued, together with managements actions to respond to findings and recommendations.
The Group Head of Internal Audit, who functionally reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is invited to and attends the Audit Committee meetings and is also presented with the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Committee without any members of management present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also meets and holds discussions with the Group Head of Internal Audit between Audit Committee meetings.
Effectiveness of internal audit During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit process.
A questionnaire was sent to members of the Committee and to senior finance stakeholders across the Group.
Areas covered by the questionnaire included an assessment of the position of the internal audit function in the Company, the internal audit team, and its processes.
The replies to the questionnaire provided good input to support the Audit Committees assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Responses were generally positive, and recognised that the department was still in the early stages of a strategic restructuring, and continues to develop.
External auditors The Audit Committee has responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Deloitte LLP was re-appointed as auditor of the Group at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2014.
During the year, the Committee received and reviewed audit plans and reports from the external auditor.
The external auditors also met privately with the Audit Committee without any member of management or the Executive Directors being present, and meets with the Chairman of the Audit Committee in between Audit Committee meetings.
96 Directors Report Non-audit services The Committee has reconfirmed its policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by Deloitte LLP.
It determined three categories of services: Approved e. g. audit and related assurance services, Permitted e. g. tax compliance and due diligence and Not Permitted e. g. design implementation of financial information systems and quasi management services.
The Committee, the Company, and Deloitte LLP all monitor compliance with the policy and review at each meeting the fees earned and the estimates for the year.
The Committee acknowledges that the Groups external auditors will have a significant understanding of the Groups business and this knowledge and experience can be utilised to the Groups advantage in many areas, thus ensuring efficiency in costs to the Group.
They also operate to professional codes of conduct including the management of conflicts of interest.
Accordingly, it considers that the external auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services: a Assistance in tax compliance activities including the preparation of tax returns b Tax advisory services c Accountants reports for any Stock Exchange purposes d Ad hoc reporting on historic financial information for any other purpose and ad hoc accounting advisory services e Due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses f Other corporate finance advisory services required in support of potential transactions or bids, including the review of financial models for internal consistency and compliance with Group financial accounting policies g Any other services which are not prohibited and are authorised by the Group Chief Financial Officer or Group Company Secretary.
Where such services are considered to be recurring in nature, approval of the Committee may be sought for the full financial year at the beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted non-audit services has to be sought on an ad hoc basis: where no Audit Committee meeting is scheduled within an appropriate time frame, approval is to be sought from the Chairman of the Committee or his nominated alternate.
The Committee may establish fee thresholds for pre-approved services and similar approvals are required for work awarded to accounting firms other than Companys auditor, where fees are expected to exceed pre-approved limits.
The Group Company Secretary is nominated by the Audit Committee as the point of review and approval for the engagement of non-audit services.
The Committee is targeting a cap on fees permitted for non-audit services of 70% of average audit fees over a three year period non-audit services required by law or regulation do not count against the cap.
The Group has complied with the policy throughout the year.
Where appropriate, non-audit services have been provided by companies other than Deloitte LLP to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP for audit, audit-related and non-audit services for 2014 can be found in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The principal areas of engagement of Deloitte LLP for audit-related and non-audit services were commissioned in full compliance with the above policy.
The services principally related to taxation advice, IT advisory work and due diligence and other corporate finance advisory services.
Effectiveness of external auditors The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process during the year under review.
An assessment of the process was undertaken by each member of the Committee with input received from management associated with the audits undertaken Group Finance and Divisional Finance Directors.
The assessment covered all aspects of the audit service provided by the audit firm.
The Committee also obtained a report on the audit firms own internal quality control procedures and consideration of audit firms annual transparency reports.
Audit tendering The Audit Committee has noted the Competition & Markets Authoritys final Order on mandatory tendering and audit committee responsibilities for FTSE 350 companies the Order as well as the BIS and FRC consultations on options for UK implementation of the EU Audit Directive the Consultation.
The Order applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and is therefore not applicable to the year under review.
The Committee notes however that the Order requires mandatory tendering every ten years in line with EU Regulation.
As a result of Deloitte LLP being the Companys auditor for in excess of 20 years, for the Company, the transitional arrangements require that there must be a competitive tender process in respect of the external auditor appointment made on or after 17 June 2020.
The Committee also notes the headlines of the Consultation and will keep informed of developments in relation to it.
The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors have been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is Richard Knights, who was appointed to the role in respect of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2010.
In line with best practice, Richard will be replaced by Jack Kelly in respect of the audit for the year ending 31 December 2015.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of external auditor.
Following an assessment of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming 2015 Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation has been accepted by the Board and will be proposed to shareholders.
Malcolm Wyman Chair of the Audit Committee 12 March 2015 97
