Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Nomination Committee Report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in supporting the Board on the following matters: Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board.
Recommending membership of Board Committees.
Undertaking succession planning for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer and other Directors.
Searching for candidates for the Board, and recommending Directors for appointment.
Determining the independence of Directors.
Assessing whether Directors are able to commit enough time to discharge their responsibilities.
Reviewing induction and training needs of Directors.
Recommending the process and criteria for assessing the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees and the contribution of the Chairman and individual Directors to the effectiveness of the Board and helping to implement these assessments.
A copy of the Committees full terms of reference is available online at www.
Membership and meetings The Nomination Committee consists of the Alastair Lyons who chairs the Committee, Mike Clasper, the Senior Independent Director, AngieRisley, Malcolm Wyman and Rupert Soames, the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The majority of members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Process for Board appointments Before making an appointment, the Nomination Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee will also make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of any Director or the Company Secretary to the Board and give full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the necessary skills and expertise required on the Board.
Where an external recruitment is appropriate, or to benchmark a suitable internal candidate, the Committee will engage the services of an independent search consultant.
In consultation with the chosen search consultant, specifications are drawn up for the roles and for those personal attributes and experience that are felt to be essential for the effective performance of any new appointment, including for NonExecutive Directors, what would be considered appropriate in terms of time commitment.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as outlined above.
During the year, the Committee considered the recruitment into the role of Group Chief Financial Officer following Andrew Jenners resignation from the Board.
The appointment of Angus Cockburn took effect at the end of October 2014.
In addition, the Company announced on 17 November 2014 that Alastair Lyons had informed the Board of his intention to step down once a new Chairman has been appointed.
Mike Clasper, as Senior Independent Director, chairs meetings of the Nomination Committee when they deal with the search for a new Chairman.
At the date of this report, the search process is ongoing.
To support the search process for a new Group Chief Financial Officer and Chairman, the Nomination Committee engaged the Zygos Partnership, an independent external executive search consultancy.
The Board has previously used Zygos Partnership and the Board confirms the Zygos Partnership is not connected with the Company in any way.
Diversity The Board strongly supports the principle of diversity and recognises the benefits that diversity can have across all areas of the Group believing this adds to Sercos continued success and advantage.
The Board will always seek to appoint on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
When considering the optimum composition of the Board, the benefits of diversity of the Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced where possible, including in terms of differences of skills, industry experience, approach, gender, race, age, nationality, background and other contributions that individuals may bring.
The Committee continues to focus on encouraging diversity of thought and experience, recognising that having Directors with diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhances the Board.
In addition to Board diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation.
As highlighted earlier in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board has an increased focus on the balance of women in senior executive positions in the organisation, in order to provide opportunities for talented women to become Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
At present 15% of our senior managers are female and the Board will be seeking to increase this over time.
Alastair Lyons CBE Chair of the Nomination Committee 12 March 2015 98
