Directors Report Effectiveness The work of the Board At each Board meeting, the Group Chief Executive Officer presents a comprehensive update on strategic and business issues across the Group together with an update on transformation and portfolio management activity.
The Group Chief Financial Officer presents an analysis of the financial performance, both at Group and Divisional levels.
Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of the Board meetings in order to inform the Board of developments and activities in their areas of responsibility.
This provides the Board with access to a broader group of executives and helps Directors make assessments of the Groups emerging talent as succession to senior management roles.
During the year, the Board held some of its meetings at Divisional locations and conducted in-depth reviews of operations and strategy.
Individual Board members also conducted several visits to contract sites in the UK and internationally.
At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its responsibilities and, in particular, reviewed the following areas.
In addition the Board gave specific focus to the Programme of Corporate Renewal, the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews and the proposed rights issue scheduled for April 2015: Strategy and transformation The Group and Divisional corporate strategies, transformation plans, portfolio management and the Group's health and safety strategy.
Funding and capital Review of the Groups capital and funding structure to support the new strategy, Treasury policy.
Investor relations Investor feedback and analyst meetings following the release of the full year 2013 and half year 2014 results.
Business performance The operational performance of each of the Divisional businesses, and periodic updates presented by the Divisional Management Teams.
Governance Work undertaken with regard to the Corporate Renewal Programme referred to above and in particular forming the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee of the Board and the recruitment of new Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Financial and risk management The Groups business plans, presentations on the Group risk register and significant areas of risk.
Diversity, talent and succession Presentation from Group Human Resources and Talent Directors on talent management and development across theGroup.
Board effectiveness Balance To be effective, the Board must understand the dynamics of Sercos rich mix of complex businesses across its many diverse markets, including the issues and factors upon which sustained success depends.
A balance of experience, skills and viewpoints within the Board promotes overall Board effectiveness and enhances Company performance in the long term.
The Directors are drawn from different backgrounds and industries, and each has extensive experience of other international businesses in sectors that help inform and augment Board debate.
Induction, training and ongoing development On joining the Board, each Director receives a personalised induction programme including: an overview of the Groups businesses, risks, governance arrangements and relations with investors: structured meetings with a range of relevant senior managers from across the Group: meetings with key advisors and shareholders as appropriate to the Directors role: and site visits to gain first-hand insight into operational contracts with major customers.
Legal and regulatory updates are essential for good governance, to ensure that Directors understand the operational environment of the business.
The Board and committee meetings incorporate briefings periodically on changes to the business, legislative and regulatory environment, and on other relevant topics, such as changes to the corporate and remuneration reporting landscape.
As part of its annual evaluation process, the Board considers the training needs of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
Development needs fall within the remit of the Chairman, who reviews and agrees these with each individual.
All Board members are encouraged to attend relevant external training courses at the Companys expense.
More information on Board evaluation can be found on page 86.
Induction programmes including site visits and meetings with senior executives of, and advisors to, the Group for Rupert Soames, Mike Clasper, Tamara Ingram and Rachel Lomax were successfully completed and a programme for Angus Cockburn who joined the Board on 27 October 2014, is under way.
All Directors continue to undertake programmes of contract visits and meetings with senior executives.
Board independence The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
In coming to this conclusion, it has determined that each NonExecutive Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgements.
In particular, they are independent of management and have no cross-directorships or significant links that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
85 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued Effectiveness The Board considered the Chairman to be independent on his appointment in 2010.
The Nomination Committee keeps the Boards diversity, balance and independence under review, the details of which can be found on page 85.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Directors are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 111 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Re-election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that each Director shall retire but be eligible for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last AGM must stand for re-election at the next AGM.
Any Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the above, in accordance with provisions contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors retired and stood for re-election at the 2014 AGM and will do so, on an annual basis, at each AGM.
Their names are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Time commitment and external Directorships As part of the Board evaluation process, the available time commitment of each Director is considered.
The Board considers that the Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to ensure that any such appointments do not present any material conflicts of interest to Serco, or compromise the effective management of the Group, and these are approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
Details of the fees received by Executive Directors for external appointments can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 103.
Board attendance The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
During the year there were seven scheduled Board meetings and five additional meetings, five scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings and seven additional meetings: three scheduled Audit Committee meetings and two additional meetings and three scheduled Nomination Committee meetings and one additional meeting.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members during 2014 was as follows: Corporate Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Oversight Number held 12 5 12 4 4 7 Alastair Lyons 12 n a 11 2 4 6 Edward J. Casey, Jnr 12 n a n a 2 2 4 7 Angie Risley 12 1 1 12 4 n a n a Ralph D. Crosby Jr. 11 n a n a n a n a 4 Malcolm Wyman 12 5 12 4 n a 6 Rupert Soames 9 9 n a n a 3 3 2 2 n a Angus Cockburn 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a Mike Clasper 8 9 4 4 n a 3 3 3 3 n a Rachel Lomax 9 9 4 4 n a n a 3 3 n a Tamara Ingram 9 9 n a 4 8 n a 2 3 n a Notes: 1.
The table excludes attendances of Directors who attended committee meetings by invitation only.
Where a number is given in brackets against a Directors attendance, this is the number of meetings which took place during their tenure.
There were two Nomination Committee meetings in the year which Alastair Lyons did not attend as the Committee was discussing the recruitment of the replacement Chairman.
Performance evaluation A formal independent effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried out in early 2015 in respect of the year ended 31December 2014 and was facilitated externally by CTMC&A Limited, an independent company with no connections to the Board.
CTMC&A Limited has previously facilitated an effectiveness review of the Board.
The results have been discussed by the Board.
The output will also be provided to the incoming Chairman to provide an initial independent perspective on the Board and how it functions.
Given Alastair Lyons intention to step down once a new Chairman has been appointed, no review of the Chairman has been carried out since February 2014.
