Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee Report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee The Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee was originally established as the Corporate Responsibility Committee, which the Board committed to establish under the Corporate Renewal Programme and which is responsible for overseeing the Companys approach to health and safety, its contribution to the communities in which its people live and work: its impact on the environment in which the Company operates: oversight over the effectiveness of the Companys risk management framework including the principal risk facing the Company and the action being taken by management to mitigate risks that are outside the Companys risk appetite.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee then became the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee to reflect the Committees full remit.
The Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee has an important role to play in supporting the Board on the following matters: Assisting the Board in providing independent oversight and guidance as to the impact of the Companys Corporate Responsibility related strategy, policies, and practices relating to how the Company conducts its business and its reputation.
The Groups Corporate Responsibility framework encompasses our people: health and safety: our interaction with communities: the environment: our marketplace, which covers our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other parties: and our commitment to ethics and business conduct.
Approving and overseeing the effectiveness of implementation of such strategies, policies and processes Monitoring performance against agreed KPIs and targets including the review of relevant elements of employee engagement surveys Agreeing the ethical compass and culture of the organisation and the structure and mechanics of its ethical leadership and support Reviewing the Companys Code of Conduct Ensuring the appropriate progression of issues raised through the Companys Speak Up whistle-blowing process and procedures, in particular that root cause analysis is undertaken and acted upon Reviewing the Companys stewardship of health and safety Reviewing the Companys impact on the environment and the communities in which it operates Reviewing the extent to which policies and practices support the fostering of a culture of transparency and openness in dealings with customers, suppliers and other parties Overseeing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management framework including the assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the action being taken by management to mitigate risks that are outside the Companys risk appetite.
A copy of the Committees full terms of reference is available online at www.
Membership and meetings The Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee is chaired by Rachel Lomax, the other members are Mike Clasper, Tamara Ingram, Alastair Lyons and Rupert Soames.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee: Discharged its responsibilities as outlined above.
Reviewed the Companys ethical compass and in particular how to embed the appropriate supporting culture into the Group.
Reviewed the Groups corporate responsibility framework and how the Group monitors performance and benchmarks with other companies.
Reviewed the progress on embedding the new risk framework in the Group.
Reviewed in detail key risks including cyber security and the risk of failure of significant customer programmes.
The Committee received at each of its meetings reports from the business in regard to ethics and Speak Up, health safety and environment, security and risk.
These included an overview of performance against agreed KPIs and targets as well as initiatives being taken and issues for consideration by the Committee.
This included a review of greenhouse gas emissions which are detailed in the Strategic Report see page 74.
Rachel Lomax Chair of the Corporate Responsibility and RiskCommittee 12 March 2015 99
