Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report Chairmans governance overview Dear shareholder, As Chairman of the Board, I am pleased to present the Companys Statement of corporate governance on behalf of the Board.
This report sets out the Companys governance policies and practices and includes details of how the Company applies the principles of the UKCorporate Governance Code.
At Serco, we are committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics in all of our activities.
Sercos framework of governance ensures the best interests of all our stakeholders our customers, our employees, our shareholders, and the societies and communities of which we are a part are uppermost in all our minds as we go about our business, and that where these interests are not directly aligned, we make decisions on the basis of what is right: this is an essential part of our public service ethos.
Last year I reported that in 2013 we found ourselves challenged at the heart of the way in which we do business.
A number of individuals were found to be acting outside our values as epitomised by our Governing Principles and our framework of governance had not identified sufficiently clearly the root causes that had allowed this to happen.
This challenged the trust in which we are held by our customers, our employees, and society at large.
During 2014, the Company implemented a comprehensive Programme of Corporate Renewal to deliver stronger, more effective governance, organisational change and operational resilience across the Group going forward.
The Corporate Renewal programme was wide-ranging and included a relaunch of the Companys management system the Serco Management System: SMS, the introduction of new contract reporting and bidding procedures including a review of delegation thresholds, the simplification of internal board structures to enhance transparency and accountability, the introduction of a risk operating model and new SMS compliance arrangements, and a comprehensive global staff and management training programme covering a variety of mandatory modules which support the above.
In the following pages, we illustrate how our governance arrangements work in practice focusing on the key elements of the Boards role: leadership, effectiveness, accountability and engaging with shareholders.
Changes to the Board composition During the year, there have been a significant number of changes to the Board.
Rupert Soames was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer, Ed Casey was appointed Group Chief Operating Officer in May following a period as Acting Group Chief Executive Officer subsequent to Chris Hymans resignation and Angus Cockburn as Group Chief Financial Officer.
Three new Non-Executive Directors were appointed to the Board in 2014, adding considerably to the available range of senior business and Board experience.
Mike Clasper assumed the role of Senior Independent Director in September, having joined the Board in March.
Rachel Lomax and Tamara Ingram also joined in March, Rachel to take the chair of the newly created Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee, whilst Tamara has joined our Remuneration Committee.
Taken together with our executive appointments, Serco has a strong Board to steer the Company through its recovery over the next few years.
In 2015, I shall stand down as Chairman once my successor has been selected.
The process for finding my successor is set out on page 98 of this report.
Leadership and effectiveness An independent external evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried out in early 2015.
The results of the review have been discussed by the Board and the output will be provided to the incoming Chairman to provide an initial independent perspective on the Board and how it functions.
The Board recognises the importance of continual and constructive evaluation of its performance, and will continue to conduct annual performance reviews internally with external input at least every three years.
Performance evaluation A formal independent effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried out in early 2015 in respect of the year under review and was facilitated externally by CTMC&A Limited, an independent company with no connections to the Board.
CTMC&A Limited has previously facilitated an effectiveness review of the Board.
The results of the review have been discussed by the Board.
The output of the review will also be provided to the incoming Chairman to provide an initial independent perspective on the Board and how it functions.
Alastair Lyons CBE Chairman Compliance statement Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2014, Serco Group plc complied fully with all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code with the exception of membership of the Audit Committee as explained in the Audit Committee Report on page 92.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at frc.
