Directors Report Accountability Managing business risks and internal control The events of 2013 identified the need for the company to reassess its framework of management and control, strengthening the three lines of defence provided by management assurance, risk management, and internal control, and revisiting the entirety of the Serco Management System SMS that represents the codification of the Groups control structure.
Much of this reassessment was undertaken as part of the reviews undertaken to establish the Corporate Renewal Programme agreed as appropriate with the UK Government in January 2014 and subsequently entered into implementation across the Groups trading activities, accompanied by the appropriate leadership and training.
The revision of the SMS focused in particular on the processes and controls appropriate to contract bidding and contract management taking on board the learning from the Contract & Balance Sheet Reviews carried out in 2014.
As part of the redefinition of the system of management control, particular emphasis has been placed on establishing appropriate performance review structures with relevant clear and timely management information to enable effective management oversight of the Groups decentralised organisation structure.
Serco has a system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, designed to safeguard shareholders investments, our assets and our reputation.
The Board has overall responsibility for our internal control system and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has delegated to management the implementation of policies on risk and control.
Risk management is fundamental to how we manage the business: it informs decision making and aligns to the organisations strategic objectives.
The actions identified, and in the course of being implemented as a result of the Corporate Renewal Programme, are designed to further develop and strengthen our structure of internal control and risk management having regard to the breadth and depth of the Groups activities.
All parts of the business have appropriate crisis management plans that meet defined policy standards.
During the year, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal controls systems, which excluded a review of internal controls at joint ventures.
Whilst Divisional Boards review the risks they face on a quarterly basis, the Executive Committee also reviews them quarterly to provide governance and oversight of risk across the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committee of the Board receives a quarterly report on the Executive Committees assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the action being taken by management to mitigate risks that are outside of the Groups risk appetite.
Our risk management policies, systems and processes align to the guidance contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code and form part of the Serco Management System.
Such systems and processes, however, can only be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Our approach to risk within the SercoManagement System Significant work was completed in 2014 to review, revise and better align the policies and standards that make up the Serco Management System with business operations and core management processes around our business lifecycle.
Inherent within this is our approach to risk management and management assurance.
The review highlighted the need for greater clarity around the processes we expect to be in place and their associated controls that demonstrate compliance and ensure risks are being managed.
This included better definition of the gate processes which are our principal controls at different stages through our business lifecycle and ensure effective management oversight and management of risks.
As a result of this work we have defined within the Group Standards that support each of our policy areas the processes and associated controls that must be in place along with clear definition of those responsible for ensuring compliance.
It is these controls that manage or mitigate risks faced by the business.
The review of the SMS also included a full review of our risk management standards, processes and controls to ensure that they identify, review and report risks at all levels of our business, and in the Group as a whole, that impact upon strategic objectives, with the aim of safeguarding our shareholders investments, the Groups assets and its reputation.
At each level within our business, risk management processes reflect the nature of the activities being undertaken and the business and operational risks inherent in them, and therefore the level of control considered necessary to protect our interests and those of our stakeholders.
These controls and processes fall into four main areas: Identification, Assessment, Planning and Control and Monitoring, so that we: Identify business objectives that reflect the interests of all stakeholders and the risks associated with the achievement of these objectives.
Regularly assess our exposure to risk, including through the regular measurement of key risk indicators.
Control and reduce risk as far as reasonably practicable or achievable through cost-effective risk treatment options.
Identify new risks as they arise and remove those risks that are no longer relevant.
87 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued Accountability Risk identification In identifying the potential risks associated with the achievement of our business objectives, we consider both external factors arising from the environment within which we operate, and internal risks arising from the nature of our business, its controls and processes, and our management decisions.
Once identified, we document risks in risk registers, which are maintained at contract, programme, business unit, Divisional and Group levels.
These risk registers change as new risks emerge and existing risks diminish, so that the registers reflect the current threats to the relevant strategic objectives.
We review the Group and Divisional Risk Registers at least quarterly and more frequently as required.
The Executive Committee reviews the Group Risk Register quarterly ahead of formal review by the Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committee.
Risk assessment We assess the potential effect of each identified risk on the achievement of our business objectives and wider stakeholder interests.
To do so, we use a risk scoring system based on our assessment of the probability of a risk materialising and the impact if it does.
This is assessed from three perspectives: The risks significance to the achievement of our business objectives.
The risks significance to society, including its impact on public safety and the environment.
Our ability to influence, control and mitigate the risk.
Analysis of our key risks allows us to assess the impact of disruption to our business objectives, the probability of this occurring and highlight critical areas that require management attention.
Risk planning and control We assign each identified and assessed risk to a risk owner who is responsible for controlling, managing, and developing a robust and effective plan to reduce or mitigate the risk.
Risk owners are required to report to the Executive Committee or, as appropriate, the Board or the Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committee on specific risks.
Either may ask for additional information or request an audit to provide additional assurance.
Risk reduction involves taking early management action to remove or reduce identified risks before they can affect the bid, programme, project or contract.
We consider options to eliminate, reduce or control the risks as part of the risk identification and analysis process.
Risk mitigation involves us identifying appropriate measures, including contingency plans, to reduce the severity of the impact of the risks, should they occur.
This includes developing crisis management plans in response to risks whose potential impact warrants a specific management process.
The SMS requires every contract to develop a risk management plan reflecting assessed risks and supported by appropriate measures and contingency plans to mitigate the impact of the risks.
Risk monitoring Changes in our external environment, internal structures and management decisions may all affect the nature and extent of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
Our risk monitoring process therefore regularly monitors changes to our business and the external environment, to ensure that we have sight of and respond appropriately to reduce the impact of emerging risks.
88 Directors Report Managing and mitigating risk The objective of our risk management process is to provide a governance overview of our operational risk profile.
Operational risk can never be eliminated: risks are necessary to achieve targeted benefits risk management informs decisions.
However, while risk is necessary, we seek to minimise the probability and impact of threats through the consistent implementation of the SMS, ensuring that appropriate infrastructure, controls, systems, staff and processes are in place.
Some of our key management and control techniques defined in the SMS are set out below: Our operating processes reflect the principles of clear delegation of authority and segregation of duties.
The Executive Committee meets regularly throughout the year and on a quarterly basis it reviews risks, internal control and business assurance to ensure they are effectively managed and reviewed.
Our processes of business review are intended to ensure that we meet customer expectations, regulatory requirements and performance criteria, including operational effectiveness, investment returns, cash flow requirements and profitability.
The effectiveness of these processes has been the subject of particular focus as part of our Programme of Corporate Renewal.
The business recognises the importance of relevant key performance indicators to provide an analysis of business performance and variances from plan, occupational health and safety incidents, and error and exception reporting.
Selective recruitment, succession planning and other human resource policies and practices ensure that staff skills are aligned with Sercos current and future needs.
We maintain insurance policies against losses arising from circumstances such as damage or destruction of physical assets, theft, legal liability for third-party loss and professional advice.
We review the adequacy of our insurance cover at regular intervals.
The Investment Committee meets regularly to ensure appropriate governance and the management of risk associated with larger or higher risk bids, acquisitions, disposals and areas of significant capital expenditure.
We apply robust project management and change implementation disciplines to all major projects, including new contract transitions, acquisitions, new technology applications, change programmes and other major initiatives.
The Strategic Report describes our approach to health, safety and environmental protection.
Qualified and experienced staff in each business unit provide advice and support on health, safety and environmental issues and undertake regular audits.
We have safety specialists in our aviation, rail, defence, nuclear and marine businesses that report to the Board, and maintain and further develop the very high standards expected in these industries.
The Chief Information Officer is responsible for ensuring that systems and processes are in place to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of sensitive information and the associated information systems that support our business activities.
Our Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committee has responsibility for the review of ethical issues that may arise from our current and future activities.
The Company Secretary manages the Speak Up reporting service, to which staff can report illegal, dangerous, dishonest or unethical activities.
We have crisis and business continuity plans in place to manage crisis events, both within Divisions and the Group.
All Divisional Chief Executives are required to self-certify their Divisions compliance to the SMS at half and end-of-year points.
As mandated by the SMS, throughout the business lifecycle of all our bids and contracts independent reviews such as Black Hats and Gate Reviews are required to provide an appropriate standard of assurance and governance across the business.
Group risk function The Group Risk function forms part of the overall risk management process.
While line managers are responsible for identifying and managing all risks within their risk appetite and tolerance limits, in line with the policies and standards set within the SMS, the Group Risk function is responsible for the development and implementation of risk management policy, strategy and governance.
In addition to this, the function provides assurance over the business providing risk management oversight, assurance and challenge as well as managing the Serco Group overall risk profile.
Internal audit An integral part of risk management is assurance that the controls identified to manage risks are operating and effective.
Internal audit is responsible for reviewing the design and operation of risk management processes and controls operated across the Group, providing objective assurance around the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
During 2014, there was a change in administrative reporting lines of the Group Head of Internal Audit from the Group Chief Executive Officer to the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The administrative reporting line of the Group Head of Internal Audit has been reviewed in the light of the implementation of changes arising from the Corporate Renewal Programme and it is now considered that the Group Chief Financial Officer is a more appropriate reporting line.
Functionally, the Group Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chair of the Audit Committee and is responsible for delivery of the internal audit programme, ensuring that it is risk-based and aligned with the overall strategy of the Group.
The Group Head of Internal Audit also makes regular reports to the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee.
Internal audit is delivered using a mix of co-sourced and in-house resources.
Each Division reviews the results of relevant internal audits four times a year.
The findings of the overall internal audit programme are reported directly to the Boards Audit Committee.
The effectiveness and resourcing of our internal audit capability has been specifically reviewed as part of our Corporate Renewal Programme.
In addition to internal audit, many parts of our business are subject to other reviews of their controls by third parties, including industry regulators, ISO Standards, customers and other external audits.
This third-party scrutiny significantly increases the scope of independent assurance conducted across the Group each year.
89 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report continued Accountability Financial reporting process The Company has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of the preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial statements.
The process includes: The involvement of qualified, professional employees with an appropriate level of experience in Group Finance and across the Divisions Formal sign-offs from divisional Chief Executive Officers and Finance Directors Comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from key internal Group functions A transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information to the external auditor.
Engagement of a professional and experienced firm of external auditors.
Oversight of the Audit Committee, involving amongst other duties: A detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which have been discussed by management.
Review and where appropriate, challenge on matters including the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies and practices during the year: significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: the going concern assumption: and the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior to endorsement by the Board.
The above process and the review by the Audit Committee of a comprehensive note from management that sets out the details of the preparation, internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report and Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Group has undertaken an appropriate process to include the necessary information for it to consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Management assurance Management assurance is part of the business assurance process.
Each Division is required to carry out a programme of management assurance to provide comfort that the Division is managing its risks effectively and in compliance with the SMS.
The results of the programme are reviewed by the Divisional Executive Management Teams.
A compliance sign-off statement is received from each Divisional CEO and reviewed by the Audit Committee to confirm that known risks are being managed, Group internal controls are being implemented and that there are no known control failures that present an unmitigated material risk to the division or the Group.
As part of the 2014 redefinition of the Serco Management System we have introduced a specific Group Standard on compliance to ensure a consistent approach across the Group in regard to management assurance.
In 2014 we developed a self-assessment tool to enable contracts to assess their compliance with the SMS and plan actions to close any gaps.
This will be rolled out in 2015. Business conduct Serco Group operates within a management system that defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied wherever we operate.
Integral to this is our policy on Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all business Divisions, operating Companies and business units throughout the world.
This policy outlines the Groups position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial inducements, human rights and legal and regulatory compliance.
It applies to Directors and to all employees regardless of their position or location.
Recognising that ethical dilemmas may arise in a growing company, the Group has an ethics consultation process that is to be followed to determine the Groups position on particular issues.
As the leadership of the Company, the Executive Committee will make judgements about what it considers acceptable with reference, where appropriate, to the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee.
We have established the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee of the Board which provides oversight of our approach to Corporate Responsibility and its governance, ethics, risk management, security and health, safety and environment matters.
In 2014 we further strengthened ethical governance across the business with the appointment of Ethics Leads responsible for the development and implementation of the Divisions ethics and compliance programme in line with Group strategy and assessed risks.
We have also updated and reissued our Code of Conduct www.
com codeofconduct : launched an intranet based gifts and hospitality register and updated our Say No Toolkit serco.
net : and fully implemented across the Group an online case management system, provided by a third party independent provider, to support our whistle-blowing Speak Up process.
Sercos outsourced Speak Up service operated throughout the year, which enabled employees to report any concerns, or report any wrongdoing that they did not feel able to raise with their line manager, human resources colleagues or through other reporting channels.
In addition to the service, which is available 24 hours a day, toll-free worldwide in several languages, employees can also make reports via email or the internet.
The Company Secretary independently investigates, with external specialist support where required, any issues raised and reports back to the Executive Committee, Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee and, as appropriate, the Board.
The Group maintains a position of neutrality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to any political party.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect the Group in the countries in which it operates.
Going concern The Directors have acknowledged the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 and An update for Directors of Listed Companies: Responding to increased country and currency risk in financial reports, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009 and January 2012 respectively.
This is discussed in the Finance Review starting on page 45.
