Corporate governance report Effective governance is fundamental to the long term success of Shire.
Susan Kilsby Chairman Dear Shareholder The Board and I recognize the UK Corporate Governance Code importance of ensuring strong This report seeks to demonstrate leadership for Shire.
The progression howthe main principles of the UK I am pleased to introduce Shires 2014 ofthe appointment of a new Chief Corporate Governance Code 2012 Corporate Governance Report.
Financial Offi cer and the recruitment theGovernance Code were applied Effective governance is fundamental ofa new non-executive Board member throughout the fi financial year ended tothe long term success of Shire.
The were postponed during the year due to December 31, 2014.
The Board is of the Board and its committees play a central the pendency of the proposed merger opinion that, during this period, the role in the Companys governance by with AbbVie.
As detailed more fully in Company complied with the provisions providing an external and independent the Nomination Committee Chairmans of the Governance Code.
Published by perspective on matters material to report, these searches have been the Financial Reporting Council, the Shires stakeholders, and by seeking to re-initiated alongside the search for Governance Code is publicly available ensure that effective internal controls afurther new Non-Executive Director.
and risk management measures are in The Board is committed to the place.
The Board also supports the Leadership promotion of diversity in all of the promotion of a culture of good Role of the Board Companys recruitment practises, as is governance throughout the Company.
The principal purpose of the Board is refl ected in the Board Diversity Policy.
toprovide leadership to the Company As a more general matter, the Board has As part of the Boards annual ina manner that promotes its long agreed that a greater emphasis will be performance evaluation it was termsuccess, thereby maximizing placed on succession planning and concluded that the broad range of valuefor itsshareholders and other talent management in 2015. skills, knowledge and experience on stakeholders.
The Board is responsible theBoard is appropriate to guide the Looking forward to 2015, the Board for determiningthe Groups strategy as Company effectively in fulfi lling its andI will continue to focus on the well as overseeing its implementation strategic objectives.
More detail about effective oversight of the Company bymanagement.
In addition, the Board the Board evaluation and on some of andon investment in our four strategic has oversight of all material matters the major matters considered by the driversof growth, innovation, effi ciency impacting the Company and its Board and its committees during the and people.
operations including key policies, year can be found later in this report.
In material fi financial matters, material 2015 the Board performance evaluation Susan Kilsby acquisitions, the principal risks that the will be externally facilitated, being three Chairman Company faces and the actions taken to years after the last external evaluation.
mitigate these, and succession planning.
62 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Division of responsibilities Chairman Senior Independent Director The Board comprises the Chairman, As Chairman it is Susan Kilsbys As Senior Independent Director it seven other Non-Executive Directors primary responsibility to provide isDavid Kapplers responsibility to and the Chief Executive Offi cer.
Upon leadership to the Board: ensuring its provide a sounding board for the appointment, the new Chief Financial effective operation.
This is achieved in Chairman and to serve as a trusted Offi cer will also become a member of part through her promotion of an open intermediary for the other Directors.
The Companys Interim and engaged culture that facilitates Heis also responsible for leading Chief Financial Offi cer is not a member constructive dialogue both with meetings of the Non-Executive of the Board though attends Board and management and in executive Directors in the absence of the relevant Board committee meetings by sessions of the Board.
She is also Chairman, and for consulting with invitation.
The Chief Executive Offi cer responsible for ensuring effective shareholders when communication together with the Executive Committee communications between the Board with the Chairman or Chief Executive is responsible for business operations.
Ms. Kilsby Of cer would be inappropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors are succeeded Matthew Emmens as Chief Executive Of cer charged with exercising independent Chairman at the conclusion of the Flemming Ornskovs principal judgment during Board deliberation and Companys Annual General Meeting responsibility as Chief Executive Of cer ensuring the effective performance by held on April 29, 2014. is to manage Shires day-to-day management of their duties.
He is accountable to the The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior As Deputy Chairman David Kappler Board for the development of the Independent Director and Chief isresponsible for supporting, Company and its operations: having Executive Offi cer have distinctly different anddeputising for, the Chairman due regard for the strategy, risk pro le, functions which are defi ned in writing asrequired.
objectives and policies set forth by the and approved by the Board.
These are Board and its committees.
summarised as follows: Full details of the aforementioned roles and responsibilities can be found on the Companys website.
Key activities The principal activities of the Board during the year were: Strategy Governance Risk and internal controls Consideration of the proposed Consideration of investor feedback, Review of the Companys principal combination with AbbVie and with there being a particularly high risks, risk management strategy and subsequent agreement to AbbVie level of engagement regarding the processes, and internal controls terminating its offer proposed combination with AbbVie Review of the Companys Long Review of the Companys full Succession planning Range Plan and its $10bn product yearresults, quarterly earnings Supporting the Chairman transition sales by 2020 plan releases, key financial reports with Susan Kilsby assuming andguidance upgrades Review of material M&A and Chairmanship on April 29, 2014 in-licensing transactions including Review of the Corporate Integrity Reinitiating the search for a new the proposed acquisition of NPS Agreement including the terms of Chief Financial Of cer following Pharmaceuticals announced in the agreement, changes in the thetermination of the merger January 2015, the acquisitions regulatory environment and the withAbbVie ofFibrotech and Lumena, the Companys compliance activities Review of Board composition and divestment of DERMAGRAFT and processes the commencement of searches for andthe entry into of a licensing Review of the Groups two new Non-Executive Directors andcollaboration agreement annualbudget Senior management succession withArmaGen Review of the Board Reserve planning and talent assessment Continuation of the One Shire Powers and the Board ef ciency program through the committeesterms of reference establishment of the Companys Review of the Companys IT Lexington, Massachusetts site as its strategyincluding initiatives to US operational headquarters, and enhance cyber security the associated planned relocation Consideration of a Health, ofover 500 positions from its Safety & Environment update More online at: www.
com Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania site ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 63 Corporate governance report continued Board operation Composition and diversity During the year the Board met frequently in order to discharge its duties.
Six The Board has reviewed the scheduled Board meetings took place during 2014 of which fi five were held face-toindependence of the Non-Executive face over a two-day period alongside Board committee meetings.
In addition, 15 Directors, other than the Chairman, in adhoc meetings were held principally to address the approaches made by AbbVie.
accordance with the factors set forth for In total, 21 meetings were held with the majority taking place by telephone.
consideration in the Governance Code and determined that each continues to Scheduled Ad hoc meeting meeting be independent.
The Governance Code 1 Board member Date of appointment attendance attendance suggests that a length of service of 2 Susan Kilsby September 1, 2011 6 6 15 15 more than nine years is relevant to the Flemming Ornskov January 2, 2013 6 6 15 15 determination of a Non-Executive David Kappler April 5, 2004 6 6 14 15 Directors independence.
Therefore, in Dominic Blakemore January 1, 2014 6 6 7 15 considering the independence of Mr. William Burns March 15, 2010 6 6 13 15 Kappler, the Board gave particular Steven Gillis October 1, 2012 6 6 14 15 regard to the fact that at the time of the David Ginsburg June 16, 2010 6 6 15 15 Companys Annual General Meeting in 3 Anne Minto June 16, 2010 5 6 8 15 April 2015 he will have served as a 4 David Stout October 31, 2009 6 6 14 15 member of the Board for 11 years.
5 Matthew Emmens March 12, 2003 April 29, 2014 1 1 2 2 Despite his length of tenure, the Board 6 Graham Hetherington July 1, 2008 March 1, 2014 1 1 0 0 concluded that Mr. Kappler remained independent in character and judgment: Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Board members were eligible to attend.
1 Ad hoc meetings were held at short notice and timed to facilitate maximum possible Board attendance.
demonstrating continued effective 2 Susan Kilsby served as an independent Non-Executive Director prior to her appointment as Chairman on performance and commitment to his April 29, 2014.
3 Anne Minto was absent from one scheduled Board meeting due to illness.
Details of the Board performance 4 David Stout is to step down from the Board on April 28, 2015. evaluation, which included the 5 Matthew Emmens stood down as Chairman of the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting consideration of Non-Executive Director on April 29, 2014.
6 Graham Hetherington stood down as Chief Financial Of cer on March 1, 2014. independence, are available on page 65.
In addition, the Board regards each of its members as possessing the skills, knowledge and experience necessary Only members of the Board are entitled The agenda for Board meetings is for it to function effectively.
Board to attend Board meetings, however, determined by the Chairman in members biographical information during the year additional individuals collaboration with the Chief Executive canbe found on pages 60 and 61. attended by invitation.
The Interim Chief Offi cer and the Company Secretary.
The The Board recognizes the inherent value Financial Offi cer and the General Chairman also has the responsibility of of diversity at all levels within the Group Counsel and Company Secretary ensuring that all necessary information and is therefore committed to its attended all scheduled and ad hoc is provided to the Board in a timely furtherance.
Shires Board Diversity meetings of the Board, with regular manner, in respect of which she is Policy acknowledges that the Company, additional attendees at scheduled supported by the Company Secretary its shareholders and other stakeholders meetings including the Head of and other members of management, are best served by a Board diverse in Corporate Development, the Chief and that suffi cient time is made skill, experience and background Human Resources Offi cer, the Head of available at meetings for the including gender.
The principles of the Research and Development and the consideration of individual agenda policy are taken into account by both Chief Compliance and Risk Offi cer.
The Chairman encourages the Board and the Nomination External professional advisors also discussion with a view to achieving Committee in their consideration of attended meetings when necessary.
If this is potential Board members, with its Atthe conclusion of scheduled Board unable to be achieved, decisions are diversity-endorsing values refl ected in meetings it is customary for the tobe taken by majority vote, with the recruitment policies in effect throughout Non-Executive Directors to meet Chairman having a casting vote in the Group.
Additional disclosure relating without Executive Directors or thecase of an equality of votes.
to diversity within Shire is made on management present, following which page 28.
Board effectiveness ameeting of the Non-Executive Effective leadership is integral to the Directors led by the Senior Independent Appointments execution of the Companys strategy Director is held in the absence of the The Board may appoint any individual and therefore to the fulfi lment of its Chairman.
Matters considered by the as a Director either to fi ll a vacancy or objectives.
The Board is committed Board are those reserved for their as an additional member of the Board.
toensuring the Company operates judgment and decision, as defi ned in The process for new appointments is inaccordance with the highest the Board Reserve Powers, although typically headed by the Nomination standards of governance in order to supplementary matters are considered Committee procedural details are promote its success for the benefi t by the Board as circumstances require.
available on page 72 which ultimately ofallstakeholders.
The Board Reserve Powers are available makes a recommendation to the Board.
64 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Appointments may be made by the aware of the confl ict of interest, or the business, from the Company Board at any time subject to subsequent potential confl ict, following which the Secretary or from independent sources election and annual re-election by the Director abstains from all associated at the Companys expense.
With the discussion and voting.
the Chairman, supported by the exception of David Stout, all of the Company Secretary, ensures that Induction and development Directors are seeking re-election at the effective channels of communication Upon appointment to the Board all Annual General Meeting to be held on exist between the Board, its committees Directors undergo a formal induction April 28, 2015, at which Non-Executive and the Companys management.
program tailored to their individual skills, Directors terms of appointment and the knowledge and experience.
The Board performance evaluation Executive Directors service contract purpose of such a program is to 2013 progress willbe made available for inspection facilitate each Directors familiarisation The 2013 internal evaluation highlighted byshareholders.
As part of the Board with the Companys business, strategy the benefi t of having external speakers performance evaluation the Chairman and governance structure, as well as provide the Board with periodic updates discussed personal performance their own duties and responsibilities.
on issues or trends that may impact withBoard members and concluded Induction activities undertaken during theCompanys strategy or operations.
that each of the Directors seeking the year include: As a result of the approaches made by re-election evidenced continued AbbVie, during 2014 the Board received effective performance and commitment Dominic Blakemore regular updates from the Companys to their role.
Mr. Blakemore met with management brokers regarding views held by from across the business and Commitment shareholders, however, plans for corporate functions in order to more Prior to appointment, each Nonbriefi ngs by other external speakers fully understand the Company and Executive Director is required to were deferred.
disclose to the Board their other the value of receiving external insight signifi cant commitments so as to enable Susan Kilsby into, and analysis of, key issues and an assessment of their capacity to Prior to assuming the position of trends that have the capacity to impact effectively discharge their anticipated Chairman Ms. Kilsby engaged in an the Group, and will therefore seek to duties and responsibilities.
The Board in extensive series of meetings with take advantage of opportunities for turn is informed by each Non-Executive management and employees across such input going forwards.
Director of any changes to their other the Group and with many of the 2014 procedure, conclusions and signifi cant commitments.
action points Executive Director has undertaken that In addition to undergoing an initial The 2014 Board performance evaluation they are able to meet the time induction, on an annual basis each was carried out internally, led by the commitment expected of them, which Director discusses with the Chairman Chairman with the support of the was duly communicated by the Board their individual development Company Secretary, and covered prior to appointment.
As part of its requirements with a view to ensuring theperformance of the Board and performance evaluation the Board that their skills, knowledge and itsmembers.
All Directors completed determined that each of its members experience are regularly refreshed, aperformance and effectiveness had committed suffi cient time to andthat their familiarity with the questionnaire with responses perform their role effectively.
aggregated on a non-attributable basis Conflicts of interest and shared with the Board.
In addition, Information and support Directors are required to seek consent the Chairman met with each Board The Chairman, in collaboration with from the Board prior to being appointed member to discuss individual theCompany Secretary and senior to, or acquiring any material fi financial performance, training needs and overall management, is responsible for interest in, any enterprise which Board effectiveness.
The aggregated ensuring that Board members are competes, is likely to compete or has a questionnaire responses together with provided at all times with the signifi cant business relationship with the individual Director feedback enabled information necessary for them to Company.
In addition, Directors are theChairman to lead the performance effectively discharge their duties and required to disclose the nature and evaluation and effectiveness review with responsibilities.
Before decisions are extent of any interest they have, the Board.
In addition, the Chairman made at Board meetings, consideration whether direct or indirect, in any ofeach Board committee conducted is had as to the adequacy of the transaction entered into, or proposed to asimilar performance evaluation information available to the Board: be entered into, by the Group which andeffectiveness review with their enabling the deferral of decision confl icts, or may confl ict, with the respective committee members.
Such disclosures TheSenior Independent Director also ableto seek clarifi cation, additional are made at the fi first Board meeting at spoke with each Board member to information or professional advice which the transaction is considered obtain feedback on the Chairmans necessary to the fulfi lment of their after the Director concerned becomes performance which underpinned his duties and responsibilities from across discussion with her regarding the same.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 65 Corporate governance report continued The Board performance evaluation had demonstrating commitment to their their respective committee meetings, regard to the information and time role, with the Chairman displaying subject to any confl ict of interest or madeavailable to the Board in its effectiveness in leadership.
The culture particular sensitivity all committee consideration of strategy, material risks, is one of open and robust debate with papers would be available for the review the integrity of the Companys fi financial the Board and its committees receiving of all Board members.
statements and the robustness of its the information necessary to make Relations with shareholders internal controls and risk management informed judgments and decisions.
The Board is committed to maintaining systems.
There was also discussion In considering the results of the 2014 open and constructive dialog with concerning succession planning at evaluation and how effectiveness might shareholders: helping to ensure Board and senior management level be improved, the Board agreed that common awareness and interpretation aswell as refl ection on Board agreater emphasis would be placed of strategic objectives, matters of independence, culture and dynamics, onsuccession planning and talent governance and of the Companys and whether its collective skill-base management in 2015.
The principal points of andexperience enabled it to effectively were also identifi ed as helpful for the contact for major shareholders are the discharge its responsibilities.
Board to receive briefi ngs on from Chief Executive Offi cer, the Interim Chief The overall conclusion drawn from the internal and external speakers.
In order Financial Offi cer and the Companys 2014 Board performance evaluation to enhance understanding of matters Investor Relations team, with the views isthat the individual members of being reviewed at Board committee of investors communicated to the theBoard remain effective in their meetings, it was agreed that, in addition Board.
During the year the Group abilityto discharge their duties and to the current practice of committee engaged with shareholders through responsibilities.
Each continues to Chairmen providing detailed summaries thevarious media below.
makea valuable contribution whilst to the Board on key matters reviewed at Meetings with shareholders Early in the year Susan Kilsby, as Chairman-elect, met with many of Shires major shareholders before assuming the role of Chairman on April 29, 2014.
In addition, during the period in which the Company was engaged in discussions with AbbVie Shires Chairman and Chief Executive Offi cer met with major shareholders to receive their views on the approach.
The Chief Executive Offi cer, Interim Chief Financial Offi cer and the Companys Investor Relations team also met with shareholders to discuss Shires $10bn product sales by 2020 plan.
Investor days In December the Company hosted a Research and Development Day in New York with speakers including the Chief Executive Offi cer, the Head of Research and Development and key members from R&D and Clinical teams.
The event was well attended by analysts and investors alike with the presentations also webcast.
Results announcements and The Company communicated its performance to shareholders and analysts presentations through quarterly fi financial results announcements, each accompanied by an explanatory teleconference webcast and Q&A session given by the Chief ExecutiveOffi cer and the Interim Chief Financial Offi cer.
Financial reporting The Company published half and full year reports in accordance with obligations arising from its listing on the London Stock Exchange and fi led quarterly Form 10-Qs and an annual Form 10-K as a result of its listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting was held in Dublin on April 29, 2014.
Shareholders were invited to attend to vote on resolutions and also to meet with members of the Board.
Website The Companys website www.
com provides information about the Group and is regularly updated with corporate and regulatory news, IR events, broker forecasts and other information pertaining to the Companys operations.
In addition, investors using portable devices can view Shires dedicated mobile website: http: www.
com shireplc mobile Investor relations The Groups Investor Relations department regularly responds to shareholder communications through its dedicated inbox: InvestorRelations@shire.
com Corporate responsibility reports The Company produces a biannual publication entitled Responsibility Matters and engagement which is distributed to employees and interested socially responsible investors.
Inaddition, the Company participated in a socially responsible investor day hosted byGoldman Sachs.
The Companys website also has a dedicated Responsibility section which is regularly updated.
Digital application Shires IR Briefcase application is regularly updated with news and presentations and provides access to the Companys latest Annual Report and Accounts.
66 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Board committees Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee meetings at the invitation of the So as to ensure effective oversight and Committee Chairman.
So as to facilitate control over the Groups operations, open and unreserved discussion, it is theBoard has constituted the Audit, the Committees practice to set aside Compliance & Risk Committee, the time for its private deliberation, with Remuneration Committee, the time also reserved for private discussion Nomination Committee, the Science with each of the Groups external &Technology Committee and the auditor, Head of Internal Audit and Executive Committee, each of which ChiefCompliance and Risk Offi cer.
has been delegated specifi c authorities.
Role of the Committee Dominic Blakemore The Board committees terms of The purpose of the Committee is to Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk reference, which are subject to Committee oversee Shires accounting and fi financial annualreview and approval by the reporting processes, the audits of its Board, are available on the Companys Membership and meetings fi financial statements and the website, with further detail as to their As at the year end the Audit, effectiveness of the Companys risk operation and activities presented in Compliance & Risk Committee management and internal control thereports below.
In doing so, the Executive Directors: each chosen for Committees principal duties are to: their knowledge and experience of monitor the integrity of the financial fi financial matters, fi financial reporting, reports and statements of the Group riskmanagement and internal controls.
and, where requested by the Board, The Board is satisfi ed that at least one advise on whether, taken as a whole, member of the Committee has recent the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, and relevant fi financial experience in balanced and understandable: accordance with the requirements Board of oftheGovernance Code.
Directors make recommendations to the Board on matters relating to the appointment Date of Meeting 1 of the external auditor, to determine Committee member appointment attendance and agree the scope of the external 2 Dominic Blakemore Jan 1, 2014 6 6 audit engagement and to consider David Kappler April 5, 2004 6 6 findings and recommendations arising 3 David Stout Dec 8, 2009 6 6 from the external audit process: 4 Steven Gillis Dec 3, 2014 1 1 5 Susan Kilsby Sept 1, 2011 2 2 monitor and review the integrity and April 29, 2014 effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and internal control Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Committee members were eligible and risk management systems: to attend.
1 One ad hoc and five scheduled Committee review the Groups strategy for the meetings were held during the year.
management of key corporate and 2 Dominic Blakemore served as a member of the Committee prior to his appointment as Committee financial risks: and Chairman which took effect from the end of the Committee meeting held on April 29, 2014. review the status of the Groups 3 David Stout is to step down from the Committee compliance program to ensure on April 28, 2015.
4 adherence to applicable legal and Steven Gillis serves as an interim member of the Committee.
regulatory standards and to the 5 Susan Kilsby stood down as Committee Chairman Groups internal policies.
with effect from the end of the Committee meeting held on April 29, 2014.
In addition, the Committee is authorized to investigate any activity included Committee meetings held during the within its terms of reference and is year typically coincided with key dates responsible for the resolution of any in the Groups fi financial reporting cycle.
disagreement between management During the year the Chairman of the and the Groups external auditor Board, other Non-Executive Directors, regarding fi financial reporting matters.
the Chief Executive Offi cer, the Interim The Committee is also permitted to Chief Financial Offi cer, the Interim seek any information it requires from Group Financial Controller, the Chief any employee of the Group, and any Compliance and Risk Offi cer, the Head external professional advice at the of Internal Audit, the Groups external Companys expense, necessary to the auditor and the General Counsel and fulfi lment of its duties.
Company Secretary regularly attended ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 67 Corporate governance report continued Financial reporting accounting for various tax related Internal controls and risk management Key considerations matters, including the level of tax relating to financial reporting The signifi cant issues considered by the provisions.
Accounting for income tax The Groups internal control program Committee during the year in relation to is underpinned by a range of concerning fi financial reporting ICP the fi financial statements were: judgments further information is isaligned with the Internal Control available in Notes 3 iii, 26 and 28 to Integrated Framework 2013 issued purchase accounting related to the the consolidated financial statements.
bythe Committee of Sponsoring Groups acquisition of ViroPharma, The most signi cant judgment in 2014 Organizations of the Treadway Lumena and Fibrotech.
The related to the tax treatment of the Commission COSO Framework.
It Committee reviewed and critiqued break fee received from AbbVie, which comprises a combination of manual, thecritical accounting estimates used the Company concluded, based on automated, preventative and detective in the purchase price allocations, advice received, should not be taxable controls, as well as underlying IT speci cally the valuation of acquired in Ireland.
However, this has not been controls for key fi financial systems, which intangible assets, and satis ed itself agreed with the tax authorities.
The are documented, tested and reported that these estimates were reasonable Committee addresses these issues, on throughout the year.
The ICP takes and appropriately applied.
The and the related accounting and into account key policies such as the Committee addressed these matters disclosure, through a range of Financial Controllers Manual and the through the receipt of reports from reporting from senior management Delegation of Authority Matrix, as well management which discussed the and also receives verbal and written as pervasive entity level controls assumptions used.
In addition, as a reporting from Deloitte LLP: including those relating to integrity and principal area of audit focus Deloitte ethical values, adherence to codes of LLP provided detailed reporting to the carrying value of the Companys conduct and Board independence and theCommittee in respect of these intangible assets.
The judgments in oversight of internal control, matters.
Further information is relation to potential asset impairments organizational structure and individual available in Note 4 to the principally related to the assumptions competency.
In addition, on an annual consolidated financial statements: underlying the determination of the fair basis the Internal Audit function value of the asset being tested, accounting for sales deductions and develops and executes a risk-based primarily the achievability of the long rebates, and the key judgments and audit plan covering areas of fi financial, term business plan underlying the estimates applied by the Company in compliance and operational risk across valuation process.
The Committee calculating the liability recorded in the the various Group functions and discussed with management the balance sheet for such items.
Results of these judgments and sensitivities relevant to Committee received reports from audits together with results of ICP intangible asset impairment reviews management outlining the process testing are regularly reviewed by and Deloitte LLP provided detailed applied and the basis for the theCommittee, which, along with reporting to the Committee.
As an area of audit management, assesses the information is available in Note 3 i to focus Deloitte LLP also provided effectiveness of the ICP and the risk the consolidated financial statements: regular reporting to the Committee management framework.
In addition, inrespect of these matters.
Further the review of questions posed by the anestablished process of escalation information is available in Note 3 ii to SEC regarding Shires 2013 Form enables the Committee and the Board the consolidated financial statements: 10-K ling and the approval of Shires to review matters material to the Group response: and on a timely basis as they arise.
accounting for litigation provisions and costs.
Further information is available disclosure within the Groups 2013 in Notes 3 iv and 19 to the full-year and 2014 quarterly results consolidated financial statements: announcements and related nancialreports.
68 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Because of inherent limitations of Committee activities In addition, the policy prescribes internal controls over fi financial reporting, The Committees activities during services from which the external auditor material misstatements due to error theyear related to fi financial reporting is explicitly prohibited from providing, may not be prevented or detected.
included: and those the provision of which has Projections of any evaluation of been pre-approved by the Committee the review of the Groups treasury effectiveness for future periods are subject to individual and aggregate policies and ongoing treasury activities: subject to the risk that controls may monetary limits.
All proposed services become inadequate because of falling outside of the scope of the policy, the monitoring of the Groups changes in conditions, or that the or the monetary limits contained therein, compliance with its stated Non GAAP degree of compliance with the policies must receive pre-approval from the accounting policy applied in quarterly or procedures may deteriorate.
To Committee or from its Chairman subject earnings releases: mitigate this risk, during the year the to Committee approval at its next the monitoring of the Groups accounts Groups management assessed the scheduled meeting.
Fees in respect of receivable exposure in certain effectiveness of the ICP against the non-audit services provided by the Eurozone and Latin-American COSO Framework.
Based on this external auditor to the Company in 2014 countries and the associated risk assessment, management believes that totalled $4.6 million 2013: $0.6 million.
mitigation activities: and the ICP was effective as of December The increase in fees in 2014 relative to 31, 2014.
2013 principally relates to reporting an annual review of the Groups tax accountant services provided in relation strategy and assessment of scal risk.
In addition, during the year the Board in to the proposed merger with AbbVie, conjunction with the Committee External audit which was subsequently terminated.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Independence and objectivity Further details on the breakdown Groups compliance program and wider The Committee recognizes both the ofnon-audit fees paid or due to the internal control and risk management need for an objective and independent external auditor as a result of services systems.
This was performed through external auditor and how such provided during 2014 can be found the review and challenge of related objectivity and independence might inNote 31 to the consolidated reports and presentations from be, or appear, compromised through fi nancialstatements.
management, and in the Board and the provision of non-audit services.
Committees consideration of routine Further factors identifi ed as contributing Accordingly, the Committee has and exceptional items of business.
to external auditor objectivity and overseen the implementation of a policy Neither the Board nor the Committee independence include the external on the provision of non-audit services identifi ed, nor were advised of, any auditors retention of an impartial and by the external auditor with a view to defi ciencies within the Companys questioning approach, particularly safeguarding these core attributes.
compliance program or internal control withrespect to issues of heightened Thepolicy provides that, amongst and risk management systems that sensitivity, the fi rms prudent attitude otherthings, the auditor must not were considered to be material to the tothe consideration and undertaking provide a service which: Group as a whole.
Further details on ofnon-audit services and Shires creates a mutuality of interest: Shires risk framework can be found ownprinciple of not recruiting staff onpage 32. directly from the external auditor places the auditor in a position where engagement team.
they would audit their own work: During the year the Committee met with results in the auditor acting as a the external auditor to consider the manager or employee of the external auditors independence and Company: or objectivity: ensuring that the relationship puts the auditor in role of advocate between the external auditor and forthe Company.
members of fi financial management had not resulted, or appeared to result, in a lack of independence or objectivity.
The Committee considers that, during 2014, the external auditor was suffi ciently robust in dealings with members of fi financial management and that, in their absence, the external auditor was transparent and decisive in dealings withthe Committee.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 69 Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness once in every ten-year period, with the quarterly.
In addition, periodically the The Committee recognizes the external audit partner rotating on a Companys internal audit procedures importance of having a high-caliber fi five-yearly basis.
Notwithstanding such and capabilities undergo an ofaudit and as such, undertakes an policy, having regard to transitional independent external assessment annual assessment of the effectiveness arrangements regarding external audit against global standards, with the of the external audit process.
As part tendering and rotation provided by the ensuing report reviewed by the ofits evaluation, the Committee drew relevant regulatory authorities, it is the Committee Chairman.
upon asurvey of members of fi financial Committees intention, subject to Whistleblowing management which measured the then-prevailing circumstances, to put the Shires compliance effort is focused external auditors performance external audit contract out to tender at a onthe prevention and detection of againstpredetermined critical time that would see the appointment of misconduct through policy successfactors, designed to the preferred external audit fi rm align development, training, monitoring facilitatecontinuing and measurable with the end of the incoming audit andaudit.
As part of this effort, Shire improvement in the effectiveness of the partners tenure in 2021.
The incumbent employees are encouraged to report external audit process.
The Committee audit partner is scheduled to step down suspected cases of misconduct, concluded that the critical success in 2016.
It should be noted that, despite confi dentially and without fear of factors had been substantially met with the Committees intention regarding the retaliation, through management or there existing a constructive working timing of tender, the external auditor through Shires Global Compliance relationship between the external issubject to ongoing effectiveness Helpline.
The helpline, the operation auditor and members of fi financial review and that the Committee may ofwhich is overseen by the Chief management.
Moreover, the Committee choose to put the external audit Compliance and Risk Offi cer, is determined that the audit process was contractout to tender at any time it managed by an independent third suffi ciently robust, with the external considers appropriate.
partyso as to preserve anonymity as auditor demonstrating continued Committee activities appropriate.
Concerns and allegations commitment tothe performance of The Committees activities related to are thoroughly investigated with high-quality audit work.
Further areas external audit during the year included: disciplinary action taken where ofdevelopment wereidentifi ed and necessary.
Periodically the Chief communicated to theexternal auditor the review of quarterly updates Compliance and Risk Offi cer provides which in turn has committed to working provided by the external auditor the Committee with a summary of with management and the Committee encompassing key areas of matters raised through management to address these in 2015. judgmentand risk, audit planning, and the helpline as well as details of governance updates and other Appointment and tendering anyresultant investigations.
business-related matters: Deloitte LLP has served as Shires Committee activities external auditor since 2002, with the the final review of the 2013 audit During the year the Committees other current audit partner having served since andthe initial review of the external areas of review included: his appointment in 2012.
Following the auditors performance and review of Deloittes continued objectivity, effectiveness during the 2014 the Companys 2014 pro t forecast independence and performance in nancialyear, including a review of and related earnings guidance: respect of the 2014 fi financial year, managements assessment of the compliance and audit updates from andhaving received an expression performance and effectiveness of the the Chief Compliance and Risk Of cer ofwillingness to continue in offi ce external auditor: and the Head of Internal Audit: asexternal auditor, the Committee the review and approval of the 2014 recommended to the Board the the renewal terms of the Groups Audit Plan and audit fee: and re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as insurance program: theCompanys external auditor for an assessment of the objectivity and the Groups internal audit program: the2015fi financial year.
There existed independence of the external auditor.
nocontractual obligations that proposed arrangements to provide Other matters inhibitedor infl uenced the theGroup with additional financial Internal audit .
exibility: and Internal audit effectiveness is monitored In accordance with developments in the Groups corporate risk schedule, and reviewed on an ongoing basis by European and national regulation, and including consideration of the principal the Committee.
The Internal Audit Plan the UK corporate governance regime, it risks faced by the Group and the is approved annually by the Committee: is the Companys policy that the external associated mitigation strategy.
progression against which is reviewed audit contract be put to tender at least 70 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee Role of the Committee succeed James Bowling as Interim The Committees responsibilities include: ChiefFinancial Offi cer on January 1, 2015, following Mr. Bowlings notifi cation reviewing the size and composition to the Company of his decision to step ofthe Board and making down and assume the position of Chief recommendations to the Board with Financial Offi cer of another FTSE 100 respect to any changes: company.
Aside from assisting Shire withsenior management searches, identifying, and nominating for the Spencer Stuart has no other connection approval of the Board, candidates for with the Company.
new Board appointments: David Kappler reviewing succession planning for New Non-Executive Directors Chairman of the Nomination Committee Executive and Non-Executive Directors As a result of Matthew Emmens stepping Membership and meetings with a view to ensuring the long term down as Chairman in April 2014, the As at the year end the Nomination success of the Group: Committee recommended to the Board Committees membership comprised that a search be commenced for a new making recommendations to the Board three independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director: specifi cally with regarding the re-election and reDirectors and the Chairman of the Board.
biotechnology and or pharmaceutical appointment of Non-Executive experience.
Russell Reynolds Associates Directors: and Committee Date of Meeting was retained to undertake the search, member appointment attendance which was subsequently suspended as making recommendations to the David Kappler April 26, 2006 5 5 aresult of, and resumed following, the Board with respect to the membership William Burns June 27, 2011 5 5 discussions held with AbbVie.
In addition, of Board committees.
Susan Kilsby Feb 1, 2014 5 5 following a periodic review of the Boards 1 Anne Minto Feb 8, 2012 4 5 Key considerations and activities composition and tenure, the Committee 2 Matthew Emmens June 18, 2008 1 1 During the year and up to the date of this recommended that a search be April 29, 2014 report the Committees principal undertaken for a second new Nonconsiderations and activities were: Note: The number in brackets denotes the number Executive Director who would enhance of meetings that Committee members were eligible the Boards breadth of skill and to attend.
Chief Financial Of cer succession 1 experience.
Odgers Berndtson was Anne Minto was absent from one scheduled The Committee initiated a global search Committee meeting due to illness.
retained to lead this search.
Russell 2 for a new Chief Financial Offi cer after Matthew Emmens stood down as a member Reynolds Associates and Odgers ofthe Committee on April 29, 2014.
Graham Hetherington informed the Board Berndtson have been made aware of in February 2014 of his decision to step Shires Board Diversity Policy.
Aside from Committee meetings are typically held down.
The Board agreed that Mr. assisting with senior management before scheduled meetings of the Board, Hetherington would leave the Company searches, neither search fi rm has any with additional meetings convened as on March 1, 2014, and that James other connection with the Company.
At the invitation of the Bowling, then Shires Group Financial Committee Chairman the Chief Executive Controller, would be appointed as Interim Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Offi cer and the General Counsel and Chief Financial Offi cer with effect from Non-Executive Director extension of term Company Secretary attended all meetings that date.
The executive search fi rm In anticipation of pending changes to the held during the year.
Spencer Stuart was retained to undertake Shire Board in 2015, with the expected the search for a new Chief Financial appointment of a new Chief Financial Offi cer, which included the consideration Offi cer and two new Non-Executive of internal candidates.
The search was Directors, the Committee, with Mr. suspended as a result of the approach Kappler recusing himself, recommended made by AbbVie, though resumed in to the Board that Mr. Kappler be asked to October 2014 following the termination remain on the Board beyond the AGM in ofthe merger.
In identifying potential April 2015, being the date of the candidates, Spencer Stuart was informed expiration of his current term of of the experience, technical skills and appointment.
Following discussion, which other capabilities sought by the Company included consideration of Mr. Kapplers and was made aware of its Board independence, the Board agreed that Mr. Diversity Policy.
Shire announced in Kappler remains independent and that his November 2014 that Jeff Poulton, then term be extended for one year after the Head of Investor Relations, would 2015 AGM.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 71 Corporate governance report continued Board Diversity Policy Science & Technology Committee Role of the Committee Following a review of the evolving The Committees principal responsibilities environment regarding Board diversity, are to periodically review and advise the the Committee reviewed the Board Board on the Companys investment in Diversity Policy and agreed that it remains research, development and technology, appropriate.
In addition, the Committee the quality of the R&D pipeline and the reaffi rmed its commitment to the quality of R&D talent within the Group.
promotion of diversity both in executive Indoing so, the Committee: and non-executive appointments and advises the Board on emerging science inrecruitment practises throughout and technology issues and trends: Dr. David Ginsburg theGroup.
This view was shared with, Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee and agreed by, the Board.
Further assesses, and advises the Board on, detailson diversity can be found theoverall quality and expertise of Membership and meetings onpages 28 and 64. medical and scienti c talent within the As at the year end the Science & R&D organisation: Board appointments procedure Technology Committees membership Board composition is central to the comprised three independent Nonassesses, and advises the Board on, effective leadership of the Group and Executive Directors.
In accordance with thequality and competitiveness of the therefore, prior to commencing any the Committees terms of reference, Companys R&D programs and search for prospective Board members, theBoard is satisfi ed that at least one technology initiatives from a scienti c the Committee refl ects on the Boards Committee member has scientifi c perspective, including the associated current balance of skills and experiences expertise relevant to pharmaceutical risk pro le: and and those that would be conducive to research and development.
assesses, and advises the Board on, thedelivery of the Companys strategy.
thescienti c, technical and medical Committee Date of Meeting Arecommendation is then made to the member appointment attendance merits of any potential signi cant Board as to the core attributes sought, David Ginsburg June 16, 2010 4 4 R&Dinvestments.
following which an appropriately qualifi ed William Burns Feb 8, 2012 4 4 search fi rm is engaged and informed, Key considerations Steven Gillis Oct 1, 2012 4 4 amongst other things, of the time The Committees principal areas of review commitment required of any appointee Note: The number in brackets denotes the number during the year included: ofmeetings that Committee members were eligible and of Shires Board Diversity Policy.
the clinical development pipeline and the Short-listed candidates are interviewed research and non-clinical portfolio, byas many of the Committee members The Committee typically meets before including key programs: as is feasible, following which any scheduled meetings of the Board.
preferred candidate meets with other During the year the Chairman of the the R&D budget and productivity of the Directors prior to a decision being made Board, the Chief Executive Offi cer, the portfolio: and by the Board.
Head of Research and Development, the relevant clinical or material pre-clinical the Head of Corporate Development, data identi ed during due diligence the General Counsel and Company relating to material business Secretary and members of management development transactions including NPS regularly attended meetings at the Pharmaceuticals, Fibrotech, Lumena invitation of the Committee Chairman.
72 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Executive Committee Date of 1 Committee member Position appointment Flemming Ornskov Chief Executive Officer January 2, 2013 2 Tatjana May General Counsel and May 1, 2001 December 31, 2014 Company Secretary 3 James Bowling Interim Chief Financial Officer March 1, 2014 December 31, 2014 4 Mark Enyedy Head of Corporate Development May 1, 2014 Ginger Gregory Chief Human Resources Officer March 1, 2014 Phil Vickers Head of Research and Development March 1, 2014 5 Graham Hetherington Chief Financial Officer July 1, 2008 March 1, 2014 Dr. Flemming Ornskov 1 Chairman of the Executive Committee Jeff Poulton was appointed Interim Chief Financial Of cer and a member of the Committee on January1,2015.
2 Tatjana May stood down as General Counsel on December 31, 2014.
Ms. May is to step down Membership and meetings asCompany Secretary on May 1, 2015.
3 Chaired by the Chief Executive Offi cer, James Bowling stood down as Interim Chief Financial Of cer on December 31, 2014.
4 Mark Enyedy was appointed Interim General Counsel on January 1, 2015, in addition to his the Executive Committees membership existingposition as Head of Corporate Development.
is drawn from Shires Executive Directors 5 Graham Hetherington stood down as Chief Financial Of cer on March 1, 2014. and management.
As at the year end the Committee comprised the Chief Role of the Committee Key considerations Executive Offi cer, the General Counsel The Committee is charged with managing The Committees principal considerations and Company Secretary, the Interim Shires business including: during the year included: Chief Financial Offi cer, the Head of Corporate Development, the Chief ensuring that the Group is run within financial and operational matters Human Resources Offi cer and the thegovernance framework agreed by including product performance reviews Headof Research and Development.
the Board: and budget updates: The Committee typically meets on a making strategic recommendations to business development opportunities: monthly basis to deliberate signifi cant the Board and implementing the strategy One Shire ef ciency plans including a items of business: scheduling additional approved by the Board: site strategy review which resulted in meetings as required.
During the year considering matters referred from theestablishment of the Companys there were 20 meetings of the Committee: management committees that are Lexington, Massachusetts site as its each of which was attended by the material from a risk, financial, USoperational headquarters and the ChiefExecutive Offi cer.
The only other reputational or strategic perspective, associated planned relocation of over Executive Director to serve during the referring decisions to the Board 500 positions from its Chesterbrook, year, the former Chief Financial Offi cer, asappropriate: Pennsylvania site: attended two out of the three meetings hewas eligible to attend.
In addition to supervising the preparation of financial compliance updates from across itsmembers, other members of plans and budgets to be recommended theGroup: management attended Committee to the Board and monitoring the the Companys risks and associated meetings at the invitation of the performance of the Groups In-line mitigation activities and initiatives: Committee Chairman.
products and Pipeline projects against budget: and integration plans relating to the proposed combination with AbbVie: managing internal talent and senior leadership succession planning and updates on material litigation and directing the Groups human resources investigations: approach within parameters agreed with objectives and proposed budget for the Remuneration Committee, including 2015: and the reward framework.
human resource matters including talent, talent management principles, remuneration policy and employee survey results.
