Nominations Committee Report Nominations Committee Report The Committee ensures that the Board has the right balance of experience and skills.
LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE MEETINGS AND MEMBERSHIP PURPOSE AND AIM The Committee meets as appropriate but at least once a year.
The Nominations Committee has an important role to play in During the year the Committee met on three occasions.
A quorum ensuring that the Board has the right balance of experience and is four members, at least two of whom shall be independent Nonskills to support the Groups strategy.
Its principal duty is the Executive Directors.
The Committee operates under written Terms nomination of suitable candidates for the approval of the Board of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice and to fill Executive and Non-Executive vacancies on the Board.
are available on the Companys website www.
Members of the Committee are not involved in matters affecting their own positions.
As at 31 December 2014, the Committee comprised the Chairman, Chief Executive and the independent Non-Executive The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the Directors.
The Chairman is Mr. L. Van fide Walle and the other composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain members are Mr. C. V. Geoghegan, Ms. J. E. Ashdown, Mr. M. the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience Ewell, Mr. J. C. Nicholls and Mr. S. R. Mitchell.
and independence to ensure their continued effectiveness.
Appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES Executive Directors and the Groups Senior Management are DURING THE YEAR also kept under review.
The Committee reviews the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board and makes recommendations concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office and in the identification and nomination of new Directors.
During the year, the Committee in recognising the impact of the Davies Report ensured that skills, experience, potential and overall balance of the Board, as well as diversity including gender, were fully considered in relation to the Board appointments made during the year.
The Committee retains external search and selection consultants as appropriate.
The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Board appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
All appointments to the Board will continue to be made on merit: however, differences in background, skills, experience and other qualities as well as gender will be considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board, with the aim to balance them appropriately.
com Stock code: SHI 70 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GENERAL The Committee keeps In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, the Nominations Committee under review and evaluates in conjunction with the Board drafts a detailed job specification and candidate profile.
In drafting this, consideration would be the composition of the given to the existing experience, knowledge and background of Board members as well as the strategic and business objectives Board and its Committees of the Group.
Once a detailed specification has been agreed with the Board, the Committee would then work with an appropriate to maintain the appropriate external search and selection agency to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate shortlist balance of skills, could be agreed.
The consultants are required to work to a specification that includes the strong desirability of producing a full knowledge, experience list of candidates who meet the essential criteria, whilst reflecting the and independence.
The Board will only engage such consultants who are signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE diversity on corporate boards.
The policy on Board Diversity is available on the Companys website www.
Shortlisted In last years Annual Report I reported that the Board had discussed candidates would then be invited to interview with members of the in December 2013 the matter of women on boards, and had Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, would be set out the aim of achieving at least 25% female representation invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating among the Boards membership by 2015.
I am pleased to be able to the appointment.
During the year under review the Committee to report that with the appointment of Ms. A. Abt on 12 March used the services of Ridgeway Partners who have no other 2015 female representation on the Board will have risen to 25%.
The Committee will continue to consider gender diversity when This process was followed in respect of the appointment of Ms. A. recommending any future Board appointments.
Final appointments Abt as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 12 March 2015. will always be made on merit.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in As part of corporate governance, the Committee reviews its conjunction with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring own performance annually and considers where improvements that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is given.
The Committee reviewed its own performance in Such an induction programme will be prepared for Ms. Abt.
December 2014 and the results of this review were reported to the Board.
The Committee also carefully reviews and makes recommendations concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at The proposed activities for the Committee in 2015 will be to the conclusion of their specified terms of office.
The Committee continue to monitor and assess the Boards composition and considered the positions of Mr. Geoghegan and Mr. Nicholls, diversity, longer-term succession planning and potential further both of whom would have completed their second three-year recruitment of Non-Executive Directors.
periods of office in July and November 2015 respectively.
Following a rigorous review the Committee concluded that both NonExecutive Directors bring considerable management experience and independent perspective to the Boards discussions and are considered to be independent of management and free from relationship or circumstance that could affect or appear to affect the LESLIE VAN fide WALLE exercise of their independent judgment.
Both Mr. Geoghegan and Chairman of the Nominations Committee Mr. Nicholls have, subject to their re-election by Shareholders at the 11 March 2015 AGM in May 2015, been invited to serve for a further term of office expiring at the May 2016 AGM.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 71 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE
