Corporate Governance The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate and LEADERSHIP clearly defined.
The division of responsibilities is set out in writing, The Board reviewed by the Company Secretary and agreed by the Board on a regular basis.
The Board approves any necessary changes to reflect changes in legislation, policy and practices.
The Chairman leads the At 31 December 2014, the Board was made up of seven Board and sets its agenda, ensuring that all Directors, particularly the members comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, are able to make an effective contribution.
The Directors who held office He also ensures that there is a constructive relationship between during the year were: the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational matters which include the Mr. L. Van fide Walle Non-Executive Chairman implementation of the Group Strategy and policies approved Mr. S. R. Mitchell Chief Executive by the Board.
Mr. D. G. Robertson Group Finance Director Ms. J. E. Ashdown Independent Non-Executive Director The roles for the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Senior Mr. M. Ewell Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Director are agreed and set out in writing: a summary of their roles and division of responsibility is set out below: Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. J. C. Nicholls Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman Biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of Responsible for overall leadership and governance of the Board this report appear on pages 52 and 53.
Details of Committee including induction, development and performance evaluation : memberships are set out on page 58.
Ensures that the Directors have an understanding of the views of the Companys major Shareholders: and At 31 December 2014 SIG had one female Board member, Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board and equating to 14% female representation of its Directors.
Ms. A. Abt has Committee meetings.
agreed to join the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 12 March 2015.
Following Ms. Abts appointment, The Chairman at the time of his appointment met and continues to female representation on the Board will have risen to 25%.
meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Chief Executive independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
Responsible for the effective leadership of the Group: The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the Strong and focused management and development of the independence of those Directors who have other appointments in Groups operations: outside entities.
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Implementation of the Groups objectives and strategy agreed Directors brings their own senior level of experience and expertise by the Board: and that the balance between Non-Executive and Executive representation encourages healthy independent challenge to the Maintains good relationships and communications with investors: Executive Directors and senior management.
Works closely with the Group Finance Director to ensure appropriate financial controls are in place: and The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for their specific areas of expertise and knowledge.
Their wide-ranging experience Develops and implements policies integral to improving and backgrounds ensure that they can debate matters constructively the business, including in relation to Health & Safety and in relation to both the development of strategy and the performance Corporate Responsibility.
of SIG against objectives set out by the Board.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are Senior Independent Director set out on pages 52 and 53.
Available for approach by or representations from investors and Shareholders, where communications through the Chairman or The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and Executive Directors may not seem appropriate: remuneration of both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 88.
A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: and Available to chair the Board in the absence of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr. C. V. Geoghegan.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 55 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance CONTINUED The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to LEADERSHIP CONTINUED ensure that they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and regulation changes, corporate governance developments and changing There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no commercial risks.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved time be less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company for the Board for collective decision which can be viewed on the by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed Companys website, www.
These matters include: by the Board shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the Shareholders.
The determining the strategy and control of the Group: Board may, from time to time, appoint one or more Directors as amendments to the structure and capital of the Company Managing Director or to fulfil any other executive function within and Group: the Company for such term, remuneration and other conditions approval of financial reporting: of appointment as it may determine, and it may revoke such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Act.
oversight of the Groups internal controls: approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: Election and re-election of Directors Board membership and appointments: Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed limit: election at the AGM immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with corporate governance matters: and the Code, all Directors will seek election or re-election at the approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
To enable Shareholders to make an informed decision, the 2015 Notice of AGM includes biographical The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board details and a statement as to why the Company believes that the Committees, including the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Directors should be re-elected.
The Board also appoints Committees to approve specific processes as deemed necessary.
For example, during the year, It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors Board Committees were established to approve bank documentation standing for election or re-election brings considerable management and the preliminary and interim results announcements.
experience and an independent perspective to the Boards discussions and is considered to be independent of management The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are and free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or available on request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgment.
The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the performance To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively, all Directors of each individual continues to be effective and demonstrates have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the commitment to the role.
Company Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
There is an Directors Remuneration Report commencing on page 78.
Full agreed procedure whereby Directors wishing to take independent details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the the Company and of share options held are set out on pages 82 to Companys expense.
88 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of procedures are followed including the formal minuting of any the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the unresolved concerns that any Director may have in connection Companys registered office and will be available at the AGM which with the operation of the Company.
During the year there were no is scheduled to take place on 14 May 2015. such unresolved issues.
Further, on resignation, if a Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him her Board procedures and responsibilities to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an adhoc All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources basis as required by time-critical business needs.
The Board to undertake their duties.
Appropriate training is available to all met formally on eleven occasions during the year and individual Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
attendance at those and the Board Committee meetings is set out in the table on page 57.
All Board members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
Board and Committee papers are sent out seven days before meetings take place.
com Stock code: SHI 56 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 Following the implementation of BoardPad, a secure iPad paperless where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association permit and meeting system in 2012, its successful roll-out has progressively Shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
resulted in the replacement of hard copy packs with electronic Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors versions.
Paperless meetings are now the norm, not only for the of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation Board but also its Committees and the Group Executive Committee.
of any conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the This supports our online drive across the Group and is consistent imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising with reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.
any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures have Directors conflicts of interests been applied during the year and are now included as a regular item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
The Board believes Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are 2006 to avoid any situation where they have, or can have, a direct operating effectively.
or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Directors of or arrangement under consideration by the Company in which the Company.
they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2014: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings eligible Meetings eligible Meetings eligible Meetings eligible to attend to attend to attend to attend 11 max 5 max 7 max 3 max J. Ashdown M. Ewell C. V. Geoghegan S. R. Mitchell N A N A J. C. Nicholls D. G. Robertson N A N A N A L. Van fide Walle N A N A Chairman Meeting attended Absent Of the eleven Board meetings held in 2014, two were held by telephone conference call.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Where N A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
All of the Directors in office at the date of the AGM were in attendance at that meeting.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the other Independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Board arranges to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations both in the UK and Ireland, and Mainland Europe to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend divisional and Group management conferences whenever possible.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 57 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance CONTINUED LEADERSHIP CONTINUED GROUP BOARD AUDIT GROUP EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee operates The Executive Committee The Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee under written Terms of operates under written Terms operates under written Terms of operates under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent of Reference.
The Committee Reference, which are consistent Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
The addresses operational issues and with current best practice.
The with current best practice.
The Committee comprises only is responsible for implementing Committee comprises only Nominations Committee comprises Independent Non-Executive Group strategy and policies, Independent Non-Executive the Chairman, the Chief Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the day-to-day management and Directors.
The Chairman of the and the Independent NonCommittee attends the AGM monitoring performance.
The Committee attends the AGM Executive Directors.
The meetings to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on Committee met eleven times to respond to any Shareholder of the Committee are chaired by the Committees activities.
questions that might be raised on the Non-Executive Chairman.
Committees report is set out on the Committees activities.
The The Chairman of the Committee Members: pages 66 to 69.
Committees report is set out on attends the AGM to respond to any Mr. S. R. Mitchell The Group operates an pages 72 to 88.
Shareholder questions that might be Chief Executive outsourced Internal Audit function.
raised on the Committees activities.
Delegated authorities: KPMG LLP were appointed on 1 Mr. D. G. Robertson The Committees report is set out January 2014 in place of EY LLP.
Sets remuneration and incentives Group Finance Director on pages 70 and 71.
The Board annually reviews the for the Executive Directors: Mr. R. T. Barclay Delegated authorities: need for such a function and the approves and monitors Managing Director, UK & Ireland effectiveness of the outsourced remuneration and incentive plans Ensures that the Board and its Internal Audit function.
Mr. D. Kilby for the Group: and assesses and Committees have the optimum Delegated authorities: Managing Director, Mainland makes recommendations to the balance of skills, knowledge and Europe to 19 December 2014 Monitors the integrity of financial Board on the policy of Executive experience by nominating suitable reporting, the performance of remuneration.
candidates for approval by the Mrs. L. H. Kennedy-McCarthy the external Auditor and reviews Board to fill Executive and NonGroup Human Resources Members: the effectiveness of the Groups Executive vacancies.
Director Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Chairman systems of internal control and Members: Mr. A. P. Greenaway related compliance activities.
Ms. J. E. Ashdown Corporate Development Director Mr. L. Van fide Walle Chairman Members: Mr. M. Ewell to 23 May 2014 Ms. J. E. Ashdown Mr. J. C. Nicholls Chairman Mr. J. C. Nicholls Mr. L. Lvovich Mr. M. Ewell Ms. J. E. Ashdown Corporate Development Director Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Mr. M. Ewell from 1 January 2015 Mr. S. R. Mitchell Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Mr. M. Pearson Mr. J. C. Nicholls Group Chief Information Officer from 1 December 2014 UK & IRELAND MAINLAND EUROPE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COUNTRY OPERATING COMPANY COUNTRY OPERATING COMPANY MANAGEMENT BOARDS MANAGEMENT BOARDS Audit Committee Report Directors Remuneration Report Nominations Committee Report on page 66 on page 72 on page 70 www.
com Stock code: SHI 58 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director EFFECTIVENESS AND EVALUATION their training and development needs.
During the year a number Board effectiveness and performance evaluation of the Directors attended training courses and seminars on subjects The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the and topics, including those that the Chairman had identified as success of the Company, and during the year the Board continued being areas where training would increase the knowledge and its ongoing evaluation process to assess its performance and that of effectiveness of the Director.
The Board as a whole received training its three principal Committees.
on Corporate Governance developments in relation to the UK Stewardship Code, the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance In December 2014, as part of this programme, the Board Code and the new Annual Report reporting requirements.
Further commissioned Equity Communications Limited, an independent training is programmed for 2015. third party with no other connection to the Company, to prepare a tailored Board evaluation process.
This was facilitated by way The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent of a questionnaire process with the emphasis, in addition to the Director, meet once a year without the Chairman present to evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees, assess his performance, taking into account the views of the being targeted at identifying the future needs of the Board, including Executive Directors.
Board succession planning and performance, strategy development and delivery, and Board skills and composition.
Each Director Risk management and internal control completed their questionnaire and these were then evaluated by the The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of independent facilitator who then prepared a report for the Chairman.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and The Chairman and the facilitator presented the results of the control through the design and operation of appropriate internal evaluation to the Board, which discussed the results of the control systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than evaluation in detail at its January 2015 meeting.
The discussions then eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and focused on how the actions and improvements identified through can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the process should be implemented.
The Board was satisfied that against material misstatement or loss.
the evaluation of its performance was a worthwhile exercise and that the Directors had participated on an open and frank basis.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, Whilst concluding that the Board and its Committees continue to standards of risk management and risk management procedures and improve their effectiveness and are perceived to be working well, compliance controls.
the evaluation identified a number of areas for improvement in connection with strategic development, the change programme The key elements of the existing systems of internal control, which and succession planning.
In respect of strategic development, there accord with the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005, are as follows: is a need to implement faster and monitor more thoroughly the plans to deliver existing short medium-term strategy and to finalise a Open culture longer-term strategy.
With regard to the change programme, there The Board considers that the Group operates a risk-aware culture is a need to identify further culture and values needed for the future, with an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early together with finding ways to accelerate the pace and impact of the identification of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is changes.
In connection with succession planning, there is a need to develop a more detailed plan for Executive and Non-Executive taken quickly to minimise any impact on the business.
Ongoing process for risk identification, evaluation and management The proposed Board priorities for 2015 will cover: This process includes the following: monitoring and supporting culture and change programmes: the Group Board maintains an overall corporate risk register, reviewing and monitoring the supply chain strategic initiative the content of which is determined by regular discussions progress: between senior management, the Group Board and the Audit Committee.
This is also formally reviewed twice yearly by reviewing the strategy for mergers and acquisitions and the Audit Committee and discussed with the Board.
The risk accelerating implementation: register contains the significant risks faced by the Group and finalising a longer-term strategy: and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross level a stronger focus on IT strategy and plans.
before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after consideration of mitigating controls.
This provides the Board The Board notes that the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to with the opportunity to review the level of risk that the business carry out an externally facilitated Board evaluation at least every is prepared to accept.
The register also contains the assurance three years.
Having last conducted such an evaluation in December provided over current key mitigating controls.
Where further 2014, the Board intends to conduct an internally facilitated actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a level deemed effectiveness and evaluation process in 2015. acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for delivery and are monitored closely until fully implemented.
This is summarised in the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 19: SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 59 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance CONTINUED Financial reporting EFFECTIVENESS AND EVALUATION CONTINUED In addition to the general internal controls and risk management Ongoing process for risk identification, evaluation and management processes described above, the Group also has specific internal Continued controls and risk management systems to govern the financial reporting process and preparation of the Annual Report and the risk management process is cascaded throughout the Group, Accounts.
These systems include clear policies and procedures with operating subsidiary boards responsible for maintaining their for ensuring that the Groups financial reporting processes and the own risk registers and assessing their control systems: preparation of its Consolidated Accounts comply with all relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
These are comprehensively a defined organisation structure with appropriate delegation detailed in the Group Finance Manual, which is used by the of authority: businesses in the preparation of their results.
Financial control formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear requirements are also set out in the Group Finance Manual.
guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: clear responsibilities on the part of financial management for the Annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of internal control maintenance of good financial controls and the production and During 2014 the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management of the Groups system of internal control.
This review covered all information: controls including operational, compliance and risk management a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget procedures, as well as financial controls.
for each operating company is prepared in detail and approved The Board and Audit Committee requested, received and reviewed by the Chief Executive.
The Board approves the overall Groups reports from senior management, its advisers, the outsourced budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against Internal Audit function and our external Auditor in order to assist budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised the Board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances the Groups systems of internal controls.
Through the ongoing are questioned by the Board and remedial action is taken where processes outlined above, areas for improvement in internal appropriate.
There is also regular cash and treasury reporting to controls are continuously identified and action plans are devised, the Group Finance Director and periodic reporting to the Board for example the new ERP system in the UK as discussed on pages on the Groups tax and treasury position: 19 and 68.
Progress towards completion of actions is regularly provision to management and the Board of relevant, accurate monitored by management and the Board.
The Board considers and timely information including relevant key performance that none of the areas of improvement identified constitute a indicators, based on reliable management information systems significant failing or weakness.
The Board considers that the which are continually being improved and updated: information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in accordance with the monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive and internal control guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Group Finance Director: Turnbull Review Group.
regular business unit management board meetings periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, Whistleblowing Executive Board meetings and the Company Board meetings at which existing, new and evolving operational, financial and other The Group has in place a Whistleblowing Policy under which risks are discussed, and appropriate actions to manage these risks employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible are agreed and followed up: wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
A copy of this policy is available on the Companys website www.
discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses identified and, if considered necessary, their inclusion in reports The Company also has in place a confidential hotline which is to the Executive Board and the Company Board: available to all of the Groups employees and provides a facility operating units, both trading sites and central functions, complete for them to bring matters to managements attention on a comprehensive Control Self Assessment CSA questionnaires confidential basis.
The hotline is provided by an independent third every six months.
These questionnaires require managers to party.
During 2014 these systems were operational throughout the respond to questions about procedures and controls in the unit Group.
A full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a for which they have responsibility.
These are analysed by local report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
and Group management and all potential risks or control failure The Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit issues which are raised by the CSA process are classed in terms Committee semi-annually on the integrity of these procedures, of escalation levels with any significant Group level issues being the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
reported to the Audit Committee: and During 2014 Group employees used this system to raise concerns a structured and approved programme of internal audit visits with about a number of separate issues, all of which were appropriately the implementation of recommendations made being monitored responded to.
as part of a continuous programme of improvement.
com Stock code: SHI 60 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 and, after each such vote, the number of Proxy votes received for Overall assessment or against the resolution together with the number of abstentions The risk framework, as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance is announced.
The Company Secretary ensures that votes are that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the properly received and recorded.
Details of the Proxies lodged on all Groups situation and that there is an acceptable level of risk resolutions are published on the Companys website immediately throughout the business.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and Substantial shareholdings that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the At the date of approval of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Company had received notification of the following shareholdings in excess of 3% of its issued share capital pursuant RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority these holdings were the same as at 31 December 2014 : The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its Number of % of ordinary shares issued voting strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally Shareholder of 10p each share capital through the Annual Report and Accounts and the AGM.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the Blackrock Inc. 65,013,839 11.00 London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website.
Aviva plc 38,239,212 6.47 The Company issues regular trading updates to the market and IKO Enterprises Limited 25,760,891 4.36 these, together with copies of the presentations made to analysts, can also be found on the Companys website.
In addition, a range Statement of the Directors on the disclosure of of other corporate information is available to investors on the information to the Auditor Companys website www.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Statutory Information confirm that: The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations are primarily responsible for direct investor relations.
so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit The Board is kept informed of investors views through distribution information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and and regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and a summary of investor opinion feedback.
In addition, feedback from each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken major Shareholders is reported to the Board by the Chairman and as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit the Group Finance Director and discussed at its meetings.
Formal information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the of that information.
announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Chairman and Going concern the Senior Independent Director are available to discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders if requested, and both are After making enquiries the Directors have formed a judgment, prepared to contact individual Shareholders should any specific areas at the time of approving the Accounts, that there is a reasonable of concern or enquiry be raised.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Throughout the year, we respond to correspondence received Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the from Shareholders on a wide range of issues and also participate financial statements.
The key factors considered by the Directors in in a number of surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety making this statement are set out on page 35 of the Strategic Report.
Although the other Non-Executive Directors are not at present asked to meet the Companys Independent Auditor Shareholders, they regularly attend presentations of the annual and On the recommendation of the Audit Committee in accordance interim results.
with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions are to The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited as Auditor of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to attend.
All Directors attend the AGM and are available to answer to fix its remuneration.
The remuneration of the Auditor for the any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of year ended 31 December 2014 is fully disclosed in Note 4 to the Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 109. meeting.
The Company provides a facility for Shareholders to vote electronically and the Form of Proxy provides Shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on a resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 61 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Greenhouse gases CONTINUED Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on pages 39 to 40 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the AGM which is to be held at the Mercure Post balance sheet events Sheffield Parkway Hotel, Britannia Way, Catcliffe, Sheffield S60 5BD Details of post balance sheet events are included in Note 14 of the at 12 noon on Thursday 14 May 2015, together with explanatory Consolidated Financial Statements.
notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, is contained in a circular which Related party transactions will be circulated to all Shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting along with this Report.
This document will also be Save as disclosed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial available on the SIG plc website www.
All Shareholders Statements on page 143 and except for Directors service contracts, are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they will have the the Company did not have any material transactions or transactions opportunity to put questions to the Board.
of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the periods in which any Director is or was materially interested.
OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Directors and Officers liability insurance and indemnities Principal activity and business review The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist products Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate to construction and related markets in the UK, Ireland and Mainland cover for any legal action brought against them.
The main product sectors supplied are Insulation and also provided an indemnity which was in force during the financial Energy Management, Exteriors and Interiors.
year for its Directors to the extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report on pages 4 not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to to 49 contain a review of these activities and comment on the have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The financial risk management objectives, policies and key performance indicators of the Company No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying are also set out in the Strategic Report.
pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during the year or by the time of approval of this Directors Report.
As at the date of this report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks arising disabled employees and information on charitable donations are from financial instruments is set out on pages 33 to 35 and in Note disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 36 to 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 127 to 130.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made during the year 2013: nil.
Acquisitions and disposals Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate Governance Details of acquisitions made during the year and subsequently are are disclosed on pages 55 to 65. covered in Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 122 and 123.
Details of businesses sold during the year are Group results and dividends covered in Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 118 and 119.
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 is shown on page 92.
The movement in Group reserves during the year is shown on page 96 in the Consolidated Statement of Share capital Changes in Equity.
Segmental information is set out in Note 1 to the The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 105 to 107. ordinary shares of 10p each.
At 31 December 2014, the Company had a called up share capital of 591,137,803 ordinary shares of 10p The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.98p per share each 2013: 591,100,447.
2013: 2.40p which, together with the interim dividend of 1.42p per share 2013:1.15p, makes a total for the year ended During the year ended 31 December 2014, options were exercised 31 December 2014 of 4.40p 2013: 3.55p.
Payment of the final pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in dividend, if approved at the AGM, will be made on 29 May 2015 to the allotment of 37,356 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary Shareholders registered at the close of business on 1 May 2015. shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups Employee and Executive Schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 114 to 116 which also contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
com Stock code: SHI 62 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 No Shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to Rights attaching to shares attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the to exercise any other right conferred by being a Shareholder if he Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may she or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a Notice be changed with the agreement of Shareholders.
A Shareholder under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon whose name appears on the Companys Register of Members can public companies the power to require information with respect to choose whether his shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. interests in their voting shares and he she or any interested person in certificated form or held in electronic i. e. uncertificated form in failed to supply the Company with the information requested within CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
14 days after delivery of that Notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any general no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every Shareholder or his representative who is present at a general meeting has one These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his a Notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for required by the relevant Section 793 Notice, whichever is the earlier.
every ordinary share of which they are the registered Shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided Transfer of shares on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share result of a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded by the which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent Chairman of the meeting, or by at least five Shareholders or their dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and representatives present in person and having the right to vote, or proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all Shareholders, or stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person any other place decided by the Board accompanied by a certificate holding ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the of at least one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in and for the periods they decide provided the distributable profits of accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, offer any Shareholder The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be to 30 days a year, by closing the register of Shareholders.
The Board credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
There are no other Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
Variation of rights If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be divide among the Shareholders all or any part of the assets of the varied or revoked either: Company and he she can value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different i. with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of ii.
with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a the members.
No Shareholders can be compelled to accept any separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
asset which would give them a liability.
The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to Voting at general meetings them.
If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before reduction of paid up capital, or if another share of that same class is the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend, or in respect of which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
capital or more favourable voting rights.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 63 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance CONTINUED OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CREST CONTINUED The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
Election and re-election of Directors The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice 2015 Interim Report has been given in accordance with the Companies Act, remove any Current regulations permit the Company not to send hard copies Director before the expiration of his her period of office.
The office of its Interim Reports to Shareholders and therefore the Company of a Director shall be vacated if: intends to publish its Interim Report only on its website at www.
i he she ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of law or is removed pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association or he she becomes prohibited by law from being a Director: Acquisition by the Company of its own ordinary shares Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of ii he she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her 59,110,044 of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
The creditors generally: Company has made no purchases of its own ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company will seek to renew this iii he she becomes of unsound mind or a patient for any purpose authority at the 2015 AGM.
of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves that his her office is vacated: Authority to allot ordinary shares iv he she resigns: Shareholders authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 19,703,348 existed at the end of the year.
v he she fails to attend Board meetings for six consecutive months The Company has not issued any ordinary shares pursuant to this without leave of absence from the Board and the Board resolves authority.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the that his her office is vacated: 2015 AGM.
vi his her appointment terminates in accordance with the During the year ended 31 December 2014, options were exercised provisions of the Companys Articles: pursuant to the Companys share option schemes resulting in vii he she is dismissed from Executive office: the allotment of 37,356 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of viii he she is convicted of an indictable offence and the Directors the financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of outstanding resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he options under the Groups Employee and Executive Schemes are she remains a Director: or set out in Note 9 on page 115 which also contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
ix the conduct of the Director is the subject of an investigation and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Fair, balanced and understandable Company that he she remains a Director.
The Directors have a responsibility for preparing the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and for making certain confirmations Agreements with employees and significant agreements concerning it.
In accordance with C. 1 of the Code, the Board has contracts of significance reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and Accounts There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors and in its view, the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or More information can be found on page 69. employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Cautionary statement The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a The cautionary statement can be found on page 35 of the Strategic change of control of the Company.
becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
Fixed assets In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the Groups interests in land and buildings.
com Stock code: SHI 64 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report and Accounts The Corporate Governance Report including the Board biographies, which can be found on pages 52 to 65, the Audit Committee Report on pages 66 to 69, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 88, the Nominations Committee Report on pages 70 to 71, and the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 89 are incorporated by reference and form part of this Directors Report.
The Board has prepared a Strategic Report including the Chief Executives statement which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended 31 December 2014 and its position at the end of the year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Report forms part of the Strategic Report.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Report and this Directors Report, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Financial Statements, page 121, Note 13 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report, pages 83 to 85 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Corporate Governance Report, page 64 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable SIG has been mindful of the best practice guidance published by Defra and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social KPIs when drafting the Strategic Report.
The Board has also considered social, environmental and ethical risks, in line with the best practice recommendations of the Association of British Insurers.
Management, led by the Chief Executive, has responsibility for identifying and managing such risks, which are discussed extensively in this Annual Report and Accounts.
All the information cross-referenced is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Approval of the Directors Report The Directors Report comprising pages 52 to 89 was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 11 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by Richard Monro, the Company Secretary.
RICHARD MONRO Company Secretary 11 March 2015 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 65 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE
