Audit Committee Report The Committees aim is to ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, an appropriate control environment, risk management and compliance.
JONATHAN NICHOLLS CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER, PURPOSE AND AIM On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Audit The purpose of the Audit Committee the Committee is Committee Report for 2014. to make recommendations on the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects of the Directors and the KPMG LLP was appointed as the Groups outsourced Internal Audit Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, function with effect from 1 January 2014, and this has provided a guidance and challenge to Executive Management in these areas.
fresh focus on key areas of risk and control.
Through this process the Committees aim is to ensure high KPMGs Internal Control Review undertaken in December 2014 standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, an appropriate supports the view that the Group has an effective system of internal control environment, risk management and compliance.
Management action continues to be taken to Committee believes that excellence in these areas enhances the improve controls and bring efficiencies across the business.
A focus effectiveness and reduces the risks of the business.
this year has been on IT, and in particular the implementation of the new ERP system in the UK.
Whilst this has brought challenges in the short-term, it will bring significant improvements to the control KEY RESPONSIBILITIES environment over the longer-term.
Additionally, we have created The accounting policies applied in and the integrity of the a new role this year of Chief Information Officer, giving greater Groups accounts: attention to IT strategy and controls across the Group.
IT will The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management continue to be a key area of focus in 2015. systems: The Committee has again considered the issue of external Auditor Whistleblowing procedures: rotation and, although continuing to keep this under review, The effectiveness of the Groups outsourced Internal Audit currently intends to next tender the Audit in 2018.
Further detail is function: and provided in this Report.
The appointment, independence, remuneration and effectiveness of the Groups external Auditor.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
JONATHAN NICHOLLS Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 March 2015 www.
com Stock code: SHI 66 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 The Committee has in its Terms of Reference the power to engage AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP outside advisors and to obtain its own independent external Throughout 2014, the Committee comprised the four independent advice at the Companys expense, should it be deemed necessary.
Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
During 2014 no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, found it necessary to obtain such separate advice CHAIRMAN OF THE beyond the advice that is directly provided to the Committee by the COMMITTEE MEMBERS external Auditor, Deloitte LLP or from KPMG LLP who operate the Mr. J. C. Nicholls Ms. J. E. Ashdown, Mr. M. Ewell, Groups outsourced Internal Audit function.
Mr. C. V. Geoghegan As part of Corporate Governance the Committee reviews its own The Board considers that each member of the Committee is performance annually and considers where improvements can be independent within the definition set out in the Code.
The Committee reviewed its own performance in December The combined relevant commercial and financial knowledge 2014 and the results of this review were reported to the Board.
and experience of the Committee members satisfies compliance with the Code provision C. 3.1.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the key issues covered by the Committee, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or AUDIT COMMITTEE STRUCTURE improvement is needed, and makes recommendations on the steps The Committee operates under Terms of Reference which can be to be taken.
found on the Companys website.
They are reviewed annually by the Committee, including comparison against the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
MEETINGS The Committee meets regularly throughout the year, with five meetings being held during 2014.
Its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Attendance by individual members of the Committee is disclosed in the table on page 57.
The Committee Chairman regularly invites senior Company executives to attend meetings of the Committee to discuss or present specific items, and in particular the Group Finance Director, Mr. D. G. Robertson, attended all five of the meetings in 2014.
The external Auditor attended meetings of the Committee on four occasions and has direct access to the Committee Chairman.
The external Auditor meets periodically with members of the Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors being present.
KPMG LLP, who provides an outsourced Internal Audit function for the Group, is invited to meetings to present its reports.
The Committee also meets with KPMG without the Executive Directors being present, and the Committee Chairman meets regularly with KPMG outside of the formal meetings.
The Committee addressed the following key agenda items during the year: JANUARY 2014 MARCH 2014 JULY 2014 AUGUST 2014 DECEMBER 2014 Review of Internal Audit report Internal Audit update 2014 interim review - Review of 2014 interim Review of internal control Consideration of IT controls Review of Going Concern planning considerations results report review report basis of accounting Review of the 2014-16 Goodwill and intangible Consideration of the risk Management of the internal Goodwill and intangible Internal Audit plan assets impairment review management review process audit handover from EY to assets impairment review Review of Internal Audit Review of Going Concern Review of the 2014 Internal KPMG Internal controls review reports on internal basis of accounting Audit report and status of Review of 2014 Internal Audit Review of 2013 audit controls and integration Review of the external recommendations made programme process and results, and of acquisitions Auditors interim work Review of the Internal discussion of significant Review of the Committees and report Audit interim report on accounting matters Terms of Reference Discussion of the 2013 implementation of the Review of the 2013 external Review of whistleblowing Annual Report compared to new UK ERP system Auditor report and non-audit services best and emerging practice Review of audit pre-close Review of the 2013 policies Assessment of performance accounting and reporting Annual Report of external Auditor issues including fair, balanced Review of year end external and understandable audit planning report requirement and Agreement of 2014 audit Preliminary Results fee and review of Auditor Announcement independence SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 67 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report CONTINUED FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT OVERSIGHT OF INTERNAL AUDIT ACCOUNTING MATTERS The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to senior management and the Board of the adequacy and effectiveness The Committee considered the following financial reporting and key of SIGs risk management framework.
Internal Audit forms an accounting issues with regard to the financial statements: independent and objective assessment as to whether: risks have been adequately identified: adequate internal controls are in place Implementation of UK ERP system to manage those risks: and those controls are working effectively.
During the year the Group continued its phased implementation The results of all assignments have been reported to the Audit of its new UK ERP system.
All administrative back offices went live Committee during the year.
Areas of weakness that were identified during the year and the branch roll-out has commenced.
In light during the year prompted a detailed action plan and a follow-up audit of the hybrid nature of the underlying systems, Deloitte adopted a check to establish that actions had been completed.
No significant more substantive approach to their audit testing.
The Committee failings or weaknesses were identified during the year which had a satisfied itself that the enhanced procedures enabled the audit to be material effect on the Companys financial performance.
properly carried out at no loss of rigour.
The Audit Committee notes that the Company operates a Control Self Assessment CSA internal control process to support the Recognition and measurement of supplier rebate income internal audit process.
This process is summarised in the Corporate The Committee examined the procedures and controls in place Governance Report on page 60. to ensure that the reporting, reviewing and accounting for supplier rebate income is properly managed and that supplier rebates are KPMG LLP was appointed on 1 January 2014 in place of EY LLP to recognised appropriately in the Group financial statements.
provide the outsourced Internal Audit function.
The appointment followed a full review process which involved tenders being made Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets by five accountancy firms leading to a shortlist of three firms from which a candidate was recommended.
The process was The carrying value of goodwill is systematically reviewed at each midcarried out by the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of year point and at year end.
A consistent methodology is applied to the Audit Committee who then recommended KPMG to the the individual cash generating units, taking account of market outlook, Audit Committee as the selected internal audit provider.
Their risk-adjusted discounted future cash flows, sensitivities, and other appointment was then recommended by the Audit Committee to factors which may have a bearing on impairment considerations.
the Board, and was approved by the Board.
Disclosure of Other items OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Committee gave careful consideration to the judgments The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree made in the separate disclosure of Other items.
In particular, the of independence and objectivity on the part of the Groups external Committee sought to ensure that the treatment followed consistent Auditor.
The external Auditor reports to the Committee on the actions principles and that reporting in the Annual Accounts is suitably clear taken to comply with both professional and regulatory requirements and understandable.
and with best practice designed to ensure its independence.
Recognition and measurement of trade receivables The Group has an agreed policy with regard to the provision of Methodologies and judgments applied in establishing provisions for audit and non-audit services by the external Auditor, which was trade receivables were examined to ensure consistent application operated throughout 2014.
The policy is based on the principles and appropriateness to the trading position of the Group.
that they should undertake non-audit services only where they are the most appropriate and cost-effective provider of the service, and where the provision of non-audit services does not impair, or is not perceived to impair, the external Auditors independence Read more about our Critical Accounting Judgments and Key Sources of and objectivity.
It categorises such services as Auditor-permitted Estimation Uncertainty on page 104 services, Auditor-excluded services and Auditor-authorised services.
The policy, which can be viewed on the Companys website Read more about our Statement of Significant Accounting Policies on pages 97 to 103 www.
com, defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any Auditorauthorised services.
com Stock code: SHI 68 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 The external Auditor cannot be engaged to perform any assignment FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE where the output is then subject to their review as external Auditor.
The Committee has reviewed the contents of this years Annual The Committee regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided Report and Accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, by the external Auditor.
The policy is reviewed annually by the the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Committee and is approved by the Board.
the necessary information to enable Shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
The total sum invoiced to the Group by its external Auditor for nonaudit services in 2014 was 0.1m, representing the interim review In reaching this conclusion the Committee has considered 2013: 0.1m.
The total sum invoiced by them for audit services in the following: respect of the same period was 1.3m 2013: 1.4m.
the preparation of the Annual Report is a collaborative process The external Auditor reports to the Committee each year on between Finance, Legal, Human Resources, Investor Relations the actions taken to comply with professional and regulatory and Communications functions within SIG, ensuring the requirements and best practice designed to ensure its appropriate professional input to each section.
External guidance independence, including the rotation of key members of the and advice is sought where appropriate: external audit team.
Deloitte LLP has formally confirmed its the coordination and project management is undertaken by independence to the Board in respect of the period covered by a central team to ensure consistency and completeness of these financial statements.
the document: In August 2014, the Committee undertook its annual review an extensive review process is undertaken, both internally and of the effectiveness of the external Auditors and considered the through the use of external advisors: and reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
A questionnaire was sent to the a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee members prior Finance Directors of each of the Groups operating companies, to consideration by the Board.
which provided the Committee with an overall view across the Group.
From this questionnaire and further discussions in the As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee meeting, the Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP continues to has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of provide an effective audit service.
Reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor.
AUDIT TENDER On behalf of the Board The Code recommends that external audits should be put out for tender every ten years.
Having previously acted as Auditor to parts of the Group since 2003, Deloitte was invited to tender for the entire Group audit in 2005 and this resulted in Deloitte being appointed as the external Auditor.
JONATHAN NICHOLLS As noted previously, the Committee continues to review the Chairman of the Audit Committee performance of the external Auditor and has been satisfied with the independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, and that the Group is subjected to a rigorous audit process.
The Committee does not consider it necessary to conduct a tender process for the appointment of the Companys Auditor at this time, although the Committee will continue to keep this under review.
The current lead audit partner took over responsibility for the audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Committee is currently of the view that it is potentially more effective to align the tender of the external Auditor with the rotation of the current lead audit partner, which is due in 2018.
The Committee will continue to keep this under review with a particular regard to regulatory developments.
The Committee recommends, and the Board agrees, that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company for a further year will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 69 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE
