Governance Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dear shareholder Maintaining and promoting a high standard of corporate governance remains fundamental to the boards ability to discharge its duties to shareholders and it is central to my role as Chairman of Associated British Foods.
As I have already highlighted in my Chairmans statement on page 5, in May, we were delighted to welcome Ruth Cairnie to the board as an independent non-executive director.
Ruth brings a wealth of strategic and international experience and her appointment broadens the range of perspectives on the board.
The formal, rigorous process by which Ruth was appointed is described in the Nomination committee report on page 59.
I believe that Associated British Foods already benefits from a strong, cohesive board.
However we will continue to assess and refresh the composition of the board to maintain an appropriate balance and diversity of skills and experience and to ensure that it evolves in line with the groups needs.
After a successful externally facilitated board evaluation carried out in 2012, we undertook evaluations internally both last year and in 52 the year under review.
In last years report we set out a number of key points identified for action and I have monitored the progress in implementing these actions during the year.
On page 55, we report on the progress made and provide a description of the process we used in this years evaluation exercise, along with a summary of the key findings.
At this years annual general meeting, all the directors will stand for election or re-election.
During the year under review, the Financial Conduct Authority introduced changes to the listing regime which focused on companies such as Associated British Foods with a controlling shareholder.
One of the new requirements arising out of these enhanced regulations is that our independent non-executive directors will be subject to a dual vote by shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held in December.
As set out in the Explanatory notes accompanying the Notice of AGM, this means that each resolution to elect or re-elect an independent non-executive director must be approved by both a majority vote of all shareholders and a majority vote of the Companys independent shareholders.
In the following pages, we outline our approach to governance and I hope that we are able to demonstrate clearly how our corporate governance practices support our strategy to create sustainable, long-term growth for shareholders.
We will continue to keep our corporate governance practices under review, particularly in light of the updated version of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September this year, which first applies to companies with financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
We welcome questions or comments from shareholders either via our website www.
co. uk or in person at the annual general meeting.
Charles Sinclair Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate with shareholders.
The Code is published Leadership Governance Code by the UK Financial Reporting Council The board As a premium listed company on the FRC and a copy of the Code is available The board is collectively responsible to London Stock Exchange, the Company from the FRC website www.
the Companys shareholders for the is reporting in accordance with the UK direction and oversight of the Company to The board considers that the Company Corporate Governance Code published in ensure its long-term success.
The board has, throughout the year ended 13 September 2012 the Code which sets met regularly throughout the year to September 2014, applied the main out standards of good practice in relation approve the groups strategic objectives, principles and complied with the to board leadership and effectiveness, to lead the group within a framework of provisions set out in the Code, with remuneration, accountability and relations effective controls which enable risk to be the following exception: assessed and managed and to ensure that sufficient resources are available to Code provision Status Explanation meet the objectives set.
D. 2.1 The Charles Sinclair is The board of Associated British Foods plc The board has agreed the specific Chairman should both Chairman of considers that Charles Sinclair, due to business and governance matters which not chair the the Company and his experience, is best suited to chair are reserved for its decision to help it Remuneration chairman of the this committee.
No director has any discharge these responsibilities and committee Remuneration involvement in the determination of his oversee control of the Companys affairs.
The board believes This schedule of matters reserved for that the Company has maintained the boards approval includes: robust governance while at the same time benefiting from having Charles annual business strategy and Sinclair as the chairman of the objectives, budget and forecasts: Remuneration committee.
monitoring delivery of the groups business strategy and objectives: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance changes to the Companys capital, through the Chairman or through the on the results and strategies of their management or control structures: executive directors.
During the year, led business units.
Papers for board and by the Senior Independent Director, the committee meetings are generally dividend policy and dividend non-executive directors met once without provided to directors a week in advance.
recommendation: the presence of the Chairman to appraise The attendance of the directors at board tax and treasury policies: his performance.
and committee meetings during the year trading statements, interim results, The non-executive directors to 13 September 2014 is shown in the interim management statements, final In addition to their responsibilities for table below.
results, annual report and accounts: strategy and business results, the Board committees non-executive directors play a key role the overall system of internal control The board has established three principal in providing a solid foundation for good and risk management: board committees, to which it has corporate governance and ensure that 53 delegated certain of its responsibilities.
major capital projects, corporate actions no individual or group dominates the These are the Audit committee, the or related actions and investment: boards decision-making.
They each Nomination committee, and the occupy, or have occupied, senior communications policy including Remuneration committee.
The positions in industry or public life, bringing procedures for the release of price membership, responsibilities a valuable external view to the boards sensitive information: and activities of these committees deliberations through their experience are described later in this corporate changes to the structure, size and and insight from other sectors enabling governance report and, in the case of composition of the board: them to contribute significantly to board the Remuneration committee, in the decision-making.
The formal letters of appointment of directors and the Remuneration report on page 78. appointment of non-executive directors Company Secretary: and Membership of these committees is are available for inspection at the reviewed annually.
Minutes of committee material changes to pension plans or Companys registered office.
meetings are made available to all the introduction of new schemes.
Election and re-election of directors directors on a timely basis.
Certain specific responsibilities are In accordance with the Codes The chairman of each of the Audit, delegated to the board committees, recommendations, all directors will be Nomination and Remuneration notably the Audit, Remuneration and proposed for election or re-election at committees intend to be present at Nomination committees, which operate the 2014 annual general meeting to be the annual general meeting to answer within clearly defined terms of reference, held in December.
questions on the work of their and report regularly to the board.
For Board meetings respective committees.
further details, please see Board The board held eight meetings during the committees section below.
The full written terms of reference for year.
Periodically, board meetings take the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Chairman and Chief Executive place overseas and, during the year committees are available on the The roles of the Chairman and the under review, one of the meetings was Companys website www.
co. uk Chief Executive are separately held and held in Marseille.
The board visited the and hard copies are available on request.
the division of their responsibilities is Primark store in Marseille providing the clearly established, set out in writing, non-executive directors in particular Directors insurance and agreed by the board to ensure that with the opportunity to meet local The Company has in place appropriate no-one has unfettered powers of management and other employees.
directors and officers liability insurance decision.
The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, cover in respect of legal action against its Senior executives below board level are is responsible for the operation and executive and non-executive directors, invited, when appropriate, to attend board leadership of the board, ensuring its amongst others.
meetings and to make presentations effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive, George Weston, Audit Nomination Remuneration is responsible for leading and managing Board committee committee committee the groups business within the Charles Sinclair 8 8 1 1 6 6 authorities delegated by the board and George Weston 8 8 the implementation of board strategy John Bason 8 8 and policy.
Emma Adamo 8 8 1 Senior Independent Director Ruth Cairnie 3 3 2 2 3 3 Tim Clarke is the Companys recognised Tim Clarke 8 8 1 1 6 6 2 Senior Independent Director.
The role of Javier Ferrn 7 8 5 5 0 1 6 6 the Senior Independent Director is to act Lord Jay 8 8 5 5 1 1 6 6 as a sounding board for the Chairman and Peter Smith 8 8 5 5 1 1 6 6 to serve as an intermediary for other 1 Ruth Cairnie was appointed as a director, and as a member of the Audit and Remuneration committees, directors where necessary.
He is also with effect from 1 May 2014. available to shareholders should a need 2 Javier Ferrn was unable to attend a board meeting and Nomination committee meeting because of arise to convey concerns to the board other business and personal commitments.
However, he reviewed the relevant papers and provided comments as appropriate to the Chairman.
which they have been unable to convey Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance The work of the board during the year The board continues to keep Tim Clarkes People During the financial year, key activities of independence under review, being Appointment of Ruth Cairnie as an the board included: mindful that the Code requires that, if a independent non-executive director.
director has served on the board for more Receiving and considering updates Strategy than nine years, the board should state its on senior management succession Annual discussion focusing on strategy.
reasons why it considers the director, planning and people activities.
Expansion of Primark into the US notwithstanding his or her length of including visits to the Boston area by service, to be independent.
Having given Various a number of directors.
the matter careful consideration, the Approving updated terms of reference board is satisfied that Tim Clarke for the Audit committee and the Governance and risk Remuneration committee.
continues to demonstrate the qualities Approving the Companys full year and of independence in carrying out his role Undertaking appropriate preparations interim results.
54 for the holding of the annual general as a non-executive director and Senior Recommending the 2013 final dividend meeting and, subsequently, discussing Independent Director, supporting the and approving the 2014 interim issues arising from that meeting.
team in an objective and independent dividend.
Tim will retain his role as Senior Annual review of the material financial Effectiveness Independent Director and will offer and non-financial risks facing the Board composition himself for re-election at this years annual groups businesses.
At the date of this report, the board general meeting.
The board will continue Receiving both regular divisional food comprises nine directors: to keep his independence under review.
safety updates and an annual groupwide update.
Chairman Biographical and related information Participating in the annual board Charles Sinclair about the directors is set out on pages performance evaluation and receiving 50 and 51.
Executive directors a report on the evaluation.
George Weston Chief Executive Appointments to the board Receiving regular updates on John Bason Finance Director There is a formal, rigorous and regulatory matters.
transparent procedure for the Confirming directors independence.
Non-executive directors appointment of new directors to the Emma Adamo board.
Details are available in the Performance monitoring Ruth Cairnie Nomination committee report set out Receiving regular reports to the board Tim Clarke from the Chief Executive.
on page 58 which also provides details Javier Ferrn of the committees role and activities.
Receiving, on a rolling 18-month basis, Lord Jay senior management presentations Peter Smith Commitment from each of the groups business The letters of appointment for the areas.
Ruth Cairnie was appointed as a Chairman and the non-executive directors non-executive director with effect from Approving the group budget for the set out the expected time commitment 2014 15 financial year.
1 May 2014. required of them and are available for Undertaking an annual impairment Emma Adamo is not considered as inspection by any person during normal review of goodwill and property, independent by the board in view of her business hours at the Companys plant and equipment.
relationship with Wittington Investments registered office and at the annual general Receiving regular feedback on Limited, the Companys majority meeting.
Other significant commitments directors meetings held with shareholder.
She was appointed in of the Chairman and non-executive institutional investors.
December 2011 to represent this directors are disclosed on appointment Receiving reports from the Audit shareholding on the board of the and require approval thereafter.
The board considers that the Board development other five non-executive directors are Corporate responsibility The Chairman, with the support of the independent in character and judgement Approving the Corporate Responsibility Company Secretary, is responsible for and that they are each free from any Report 2013 and 2014 updates.
the induction of new directors and the business or other relationships which Receiving regular management reports continuing development of directors.
would materially interfere with the on health, safety and environment exercise of their independent judgement.
Receiving an update on Primark ethical sourcing.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance Board induction Ruth Cairnie Training and development board structure, organisation and Ruth Cairnie joined the board as a The board is kept up-to-date on legal, dynamics covering the combination non-executive director on 1 May 2014 and regulatory and governance matters of skills, experience, knowledge and undertook a formal, tailored programme through regular papers from the Company diversity including gender diversity, of induction facilitated by the Chairman Secretary and by presentations from the clarity of leadership given to the and the Company Secretary.
During organisations purpose, direction and the year, the board received updates on values, how well the board works as The purpose of the induction programme developments in narrative reporting and a unitary body, the individual and was to familiarise Ruth with the way executive remuneration reporting, the collective contribution of all members the group operates through its five impact of the UK and EU reviews of the to the working of the board: strategic business segments and audit market and other corporate with its governance arrangements.
board efficiency and effectiveness governance developments.
The programme took into account considering whether agendas are 55 Ruths experience and business Information flow appropriately focused on strategy, perspectives and the committees on The Company Secretary manages the performance, value creation and which she is to serve.
New directors are provision of information to the board at accountability, the quality of divisional encouraged to accelerate their knowledge appropriate times in consultation with the presentations, the adequacy of time of the group by visiting a number of its Chairman and Chief Executive.
In addition devoted to exchange of views and businesses and operations.
to formal meetings, the Chairman and discussion before key decisions are Chief Executive maintain regular contact taken, the content of board papers Key elements of the induction with all directors.
The Chairman also holds on investment decisions including programme and site visits undertaken by informal meetings with non-executive the rigour with which assumptions Ruth following her appointment to date directors, without any of the executives have been tested, leadership by the are set out below: being present, to discuss any issues Chairman, and the quality of strategic affecting the group, if this is thought review and debate: Board and governance necessary.
Regular management Legal and regulatory duties of a UK business performance including the listed company director.
updates are sent to directors to keep level and quality of reporting measures the non-executive directors informed The board and committee structure, on business performance, the trading of events throughout the group between schedule of matters reserved to the updates provided to the board by the board for its decision and committee board meetings and to ensure that they Chief Executive and whether these terms of reference.
are kept fully advised of the latest issues provide an appropriate degree of insight affecting the group.
Restrictions and process for dealing into the key opportunities and in the Companys shares.
Board performance evaluation challenges facing the group: Procedure for dealing with board An evaluation to assess the performance conflicts.
people issues covering management of the board as a whole, its committees development and succession planning, The groups approach to corporate and that of the individual directors is the boards exposure to senior responsibility and diversity.
conducted annually, with the aim of divisional management, the groups improving the effectiveness of the board Management meetings ability to attract sufficient talent to and its members and the performance of and site visits meet the groups needs, and the group.
Visit to Twinings site at Andover and remuneration strategy: attending budget review meeting.
This years review, which took place in the board committees considering Attending budget review meetings final quarter of the financial year, was led whether each key committee is for AB Mauri, AB Ingredients, by one of the independent non-executive AB Sugar and George Weston Foods.
working effectively, addressing the directors, Lord Jay, together with key issues and being effectively AB Vista site visit, including meetings non-executive director, Emma Adamo.
chaired, assessing whether the quality with senior management.
Process and clarity of information provided and Visit to AB Agri, including meetings A discussion guide was prepared and depth of debate is in each case with members of the senior circulated to each director and the satisfactory and whether committee management team.
This included the activities are reported back to the board AB Sugar site visit and meetings with following topics, which formed the in appropriate detail: and senior management.
agenda around which each discussion Audit committee briefing with the key issues for 2014 both strategic was framed: Group Financial Controller.
Remuneration committee briefing risk management and governance Lord Jay and Emma Adamo undertook a with the Group HR Director and Head including the expanded role of the confidential, unattributable interview with of Reward.
board in reviewing certain risk and each director, the Company Secretary and Visit to George Weston Foods in governance issues such as food each other based on the discussion guide.
Australia including meetings with safety, project management, Following the meetings, Lord Jay and senior management and site visits environmental responsibility, health Emma Adamo produced a written report, to Castlemaine and Chullora.
and safety, ethics and supply chain which was discussed with the Chairman and management succession: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance and the Chief Executive before being sent A list of recommended action points 2015 evaluation to board members and discussed at the arising from this years evaluation is being In accordance with the Code requirement following board meeting.
implemented under the direction of the that the annual performance evaluation Chairman and examples of actions should be conducted by an external A list of recommended action points identified are set out in the table below.
facilitator at least every three years, the arising from the 2013 evaluation was board intends to appoint an external implemented under the direction of the facilitator to lead the 2015 evaluation.
Objective Chairman and included the actions set out in the table below.
Conflicts of interest procedure Board impact The Company has procedures in place to An increased focus by the board at each board meeting on Primark, deal with the situation where a director Objective including fuller details of Primarks has a conflict of interest.
As part of this Board impact performance metrics and the process, the board: 56 The agenda was shaped to give progress of its expansion into the US.
sufficient prominence to certain key considers each conflict situation Particular board focus to be given to business issues identified during the separately on its particular facts: the Sugar division as further EU sugar 2013 evaluation, namely the expansion regime reforms approach.
considers the conflict situation in of Primark, the development of the More structured discussion at the conjunction with the rest of the food portfolio, the implications of EU board after each divisional presentation conflicted directors duties under sugar regime reform, and enhancing to consider the performance of the the performance of Ingredients the 2006 Act: division and to allow comparison with and George Weston Foods.
the performance of other operations keeps records and board minutes as to within the group.
authorisations granted by directors and Corporate responsibility Divisional presentations to the board the scope of any approvals given: and Regular, additional time was made to provide increased level of available on the board agenda to regularly reviews conflict authorisation.
information on key competitors address the further development of and market demand.
the groupwide CR agenda, the The board has complied with these implications for each business division Regular discussions to take place procedures during the year.
and the associated communication between board members individually, challenges.
and separately, with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Risk management The board to consider whether the The board increased its focus board evaluation exercise, when on certain key risks arising from not carried out by an external competitive, regulatory, health or consultant, should regularly be CR issues in each business division.
carried out, in rotation, by two non-executive directors.
Major investments Information was provided to the board Risk management in the area of key market demand The handling of risk to continue to be and competitive dynamics when a a priority for the Audit committee and major investment or proposal is the board with each business division under consideration.
encouraged to cover risk routinely in their presentations to the board.
Based on the responses and results from the 2014 evaluation, it was the directors Corporate responsibility overall view that the board was cohesive The annual report to the board on the environment to be separated from the and was continuing to work effectively report on health and safety, given the as a unitary body with a good balance of growing importance of environmental support, challenge and mutual trust.
was also their view overall that the board committees continued to function Remuneration Committee efficiently and effectively.
Each of the The chairmanship of the Remuneration directors was considered to be making committee to be kept under review.
a valuable contribution and with proper commitment, including of time, to their respective roles.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance Accountability Effective controls ensure that the groups High level controls Financial and business reporting exposure to avoidable risk is minimised, All operations prepare annual operating The board is required by the Code to that proper accounting records are plans and budgets which are updated present a fair, balanced and maintained, that the financial information regularly.
Performance against budget understandable assessment of the used within the business is reliable and is monitored at operational level and Companys position and prospects.
that the consolidated accounts centrally, with variances being reported In relation to this requirement, reference preparation and financial reporting promptly.
The cash position at group and is made to the statement of directors processes comply with all relevant operational level is monitored constantly responsibilities for preparing the financial regulatory reporting requirements.
and variances from expected levels are statements set out on page 83 of this The dynamics of the group and the investigated thoroughly.
The board environment within which it operates Clearly defined guidelines have been recognises that its responsibility to are continually evolving together with its established for capital expenditure and 57 present a fair, balanced and exposure to risk.
The system is designed investment decisions.
These include understandable assessment extends to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk the preparation of budgets, appraisal to interim and other price-sensitive of assets being unprotected and to guard and review procedures and delegated public reports, reports to regulators, and against their unauthorised use and the authority levels.
information required to be presented failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal controls can only provide Financial reporting reasonable and not absolute assurance Detailed management accounts are Business model against material misstatement or loss.
prepared every four weeks, consolidated A description of the Companys business in a single system and reviewed by senior model for sustainable growth is set out in The directors confirm that there is a management and the board.
They include the group business model and strategy process for identifying, evaluating and a comprehensive set of financial reports section on pages 8 and 9 and in the managing the risks faced by the group and key performance indicators covering business strategies section on pages and the operational effectiveness of the commercial, operational, environmental 10 and 11.
These sections provide an related controls, which has been in place and people issues.
Performance against explanation of the basis on which the for the year under review and up to the budgets and forecasts is discussed group generates value and preserves it date of approval of the annual report and regularly at board meetings and at over the long term and its strategy for accounts.
They also confirm that they meetings between operational and delivering its objectives.
have regularly reviewed the system of group management.
The adequacy and internal controls utilising the review Going concern suitability of key performance indicators process set out below.
After making enquiries the directors is reviewed regularly.
All chief executives have a reasonable expectation that the Standards and finance directors of the groups Company and the group have adequate There are guidelines on the minimum operations are asked to sign an annual resources to continue in operational groupwide requirements for health and confirmation that their business has existence for the foreseeable future.
complied with the Group Accounting Accordingly, and consistent with the There are also guidelines on the minimum Manual in the preparation of consolidated guidance contained in the document level of internal control that each of the financial statements and specifically to titled Going Concern and Liquidity divisions should exercise over specified confirm the adequacy and accuracy of Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK processes.
Each business has developed accounting provisions.
Companies 2009 published by the and documented policies and procedures Internal audit FRC, they continue to adopt the going to comply with the minimum control The groups businesses employ internal concern basis in preparing the annual standards established, including auditors both employees and resources financial statements.
procedures for monitoring compliance provided by Ernst & Young where and taking corrective action.
The board Internal control and risk management appropriate with skills and experience of each business is required to confirm The board acknowledges its relevant to the operation of each twice yearly that it has complied with responsibilities for the groups system business.
All of the internal audit activities these policies and procedures.
of internal control to facilitate the are co-ordinated centrally by the groups identification, assessment and Director of Financial Control, who is management of risk, the protection accountable to the Audit committee.
of shareholders investments and the All group businesses are required to groups assets.
The directors recognise comply with the groups financial control that they are responsible for providing framework that sets out minimum control a return to shareholders, which is standards.
A key function of the groups consistent with the responsible internal audit resources is to undertake assessment and mitigation of risks.
audits to ensure compliance with the financial control framework and make recommendations for improvement in controls where appropriate.
Internal audit Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance also conducts regular reviews to ensure The board continues to promote effective Nomination committee report that risk management procedures and engagement with its shareholders and, Members controls are observed.
The Audit on behalf of the board, the Chairman, During the year and at the date committee receives regular reports on Chief Executive and Finance Director have of thisreport: the results of internal audits work and met institutional shareholders and Charles Sinclair Chairman monitors the status of recommendations financial analysts on a regular basis Tim Clarke arising.
The committee reviews annually throughout the year to discuss the Javier Ferrn the adequacy, qualifications and Companys business strategy and current Lord Jay experience of the groups internal audit performance.
At each board meeting, Peter Smith resources and the nature and scope of the directors are briefed on shareholder internal audit activity in the overall context meetings that have taken place and on Key duties of the groups risk management system.
In accordance with its terms of 58 reference, the Nomination committees The Director of Financial Control meets The Senior Independent Director is key duties include: with the chairman of the Audit committee available to shareholders in the event that as appropriate but at least annually, leading the process for board communication with the Chairman, Chief appointments and making without the presence of executive Executive or Finance Director has failed recommendations to the board: management, and has direct access to resolve concerns or where such to the Chairman of the board.
regularly reviewing the board structure, contact is inappropriate.
size and composition including the Remuneration skills, knowledge, independence, The Company Secretary acts as a focal A separate Remuneration report is set out experience and diversity, point for communications on matters on pages 64 to 79 and provides details of recommending any changes: of corporate governance and corporate our remuneration policy and how it has considering plans for orderly responsibility.
been implemented, together with the succession for appointments to the activities of the Remuneration committee.
Annual general meeting AGM board and to senior management, The AGM will be held on Friday, to maintain an appropriate balance Articles of association and of skills and experience within the 5 December 2014 at 11.00 am at the share capital Company and to ensure progressive Congress Centre in London.
The board Information in relation to share capital, refreshment of the board: views the AGM as a valuable opportunity the appointment and powers of directors, keeping under review the leadership to communicate with private shareholders the issue and buy back of shares, and needs of the group, both executive and in particular, for whom it provides the significant interests in share capital is non-executive, to ensure the continued opportunity to hear about the general set out in the Directors report ability of the group organisation to development of the business and to ask on pages 80 and 81. compete efficiently in the marketplace: questions of the Chairman and, through and Relations with shareholders him, the chairmen of the key committees before any appointment is made by the Engaging with shareholders and other directors.
The practice has been board, evaluating the skills, knowledge, The board works to engage effectively for a short film to be shown at the meeting experience, independence and with the Companys shareholders so explaining a particular area of the groups diversity on the board and, in light of that both its objectives and those of business.
At this years AGM, the film this evaluation, preparing a description shareholders are understood.
focuses on Associated British Foods as of the role and capabilities required a Company that nurtures and develops for a particular appointment.
The Company announces its businesses of all sizes.
The film looks achievements and prospects to at three ABF businesses: AB Vista, Governance shareholders by way of interim Twinings US and AB World Foods which The Nomination committee comprises a management statements, the interim were small ten years ago and which minimum of three members at any time, results and annual report and accounts.
have transformed over that time into a majority of whom are independent Significant matters relating to the trading significant operations, operating across non-executive directors.
A quorum or development of the business are many markets.
consists of two members being either disseminated to the market by way of two independent non-executive directors Stock Exchange announcements and The Notice of AGM, which sets out in or one independent non-executive by press release and postings on the full the resolutions for consideration by director and the Chairman.
shareholders together with explanatory notes, has been sent to shareholders and Executive directors, members of senior is also available on the Investors section of management and other parties may be the Companys website www.
invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance Inthese circumstances the committee Following a rigorous process of interviews Audit committee report is chaired by an independent and assessments and, on the Members non-executive director elected by recommendation of the Nomination During the year and at the date the remaining members.
committee, the board approved the of thisreport: appointment of Ruth Cairnie with effect The committee may take independent Peter Smith Chairman from 1 May 2014. professional advice on any matters Lord Jay covered by its terms of reference at Diversity policy at board level Javier Ferrn Ruth Cairnie from 1 May 2014. the Companys expense.
As a board, we recognise that diversity is key for introducing different perspectives The committee chairman reports the Key duties into board debate and decision-making.
outcome of meetings to the board.
In accordance with its terms of A genuinely diverse board comprises reference, the Audit committees key The full terms of reference of the individuals with a range of personal 59 duties include: Nomination committee, can be viewed attributes, perspectives, skills, experience monitoring the integrity of the on the Investors section of the and backgrounds, as well as representing groups financial statements and any Companys website www.
differences in nationality, race and gender.
formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, Board appointments process While gender remains an important reviewing significant financial The process for making new aspect of creating an optimal board in reporting judgements contained appointments is led by the Chairman.
terms of balance and composition, it in them before their submission Where appropriate, external consultants remains the boards policy to make new to the board for approval: are engaged to conduct a search for appointments based on merit.
Candidates at the request of the board, reviewing potential candidates, who are considered for future board appointments will be the content of the annual report and on the basis of their skills, experience considered from the widest possible pool, accounts and advising whether, taken and fit with the range of skills of the although we will continue to ask any as a whole, it is fair, balanced and other members of the board.
The executive search agencies engaged to understandable and provides the Nomination committee has procedures ensure that half of the candidates they information necessary for shareholders for appointing a non-executive or an put forward for consideration are women.
to assess the Companys performance, executive director and these are set business model and strategy: Re-election of non-executive out in its terms of reference.
reviewing the groups internal financial directors controls, including the policies and Meetings The committee reviewed the results overall process for assessing The committee met once during the year of the annual board performance established systems of internal under review.
evaluation that related to the financial control and timeliness and composition of the board and the time effectiveness of corrective action Committee activities during the year needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, taken by management: Appointment of new independent Senior Independent Director and overseeing the groups arrangements non-executive director non-executive director.
It was satisfied for the prevention and detection of Both the Nomination committee and the that all members of the board are fraud, and whistleblowing: board are committed to the principle that devoting sufficient time to their duties.
monitoring and reviewing the role and appointments to the board should be effectiveness of the groups internal made on the basis of merit.
The committee considered the audit function in the context of the re-election of directors prior to their During the year and with the progressive groups overall financial risk recommended approval by shareholders management system: and refreshing of the board in mind, the at the annual general meeting.
The Chairman led the process for the overseeing the relationship with the non-executive directors who have been appointment of a new independent groups external auditors, including on the board for more than six years were reviewing and monitoring their non-executive director.
subject to particularly rigorous review.
objectivity and independence, agreeing The services of external executive search the scope of their work and fees paid Performance review consulting firm, Spencer Stuart, were to them for audit, and agreeing the The performance of the committee was retained to help identify potential policy in relation to the provision of evaluated as part of the annual board non-audit services.
Spencer Stuart is performance evaluation and it was found independent, with no other connection to be operating effectively.
with the Company, and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
Potential candidates were considered on the basis of their skills and experience in the context of the range of skills and experience of the existing board as a whole.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance Governance The committee invites the Group Finance Activities during the year The Audit committee comprises a Director, Group Financial Controller, In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the minimum of three members, all of whom Director of Financial Control and senior Audit committee receives and reviews are independent non-executive directors representatives of the external auditors presentations and reports from the of the Company.
Two members to attend its meetings in full, although it groups senior management, consulting constitute a quorum.
Appointments are reserves the right to request any of these as necessary with the external auditors.
for a period of three years after which individuals to withdraw.
Other senior Monitoring the integrity of reported they are subject to annual review, managers are invited to present such financial information extendable by two further three-year reports as are required for the committee Ensuring the integrity of the financial periods so long as members continue to discharge its duties.
statements and associated to be independent.
During the year, the committee held four announcements is a fundamental The committee structure requires the meetings with the external auditors responsibility of the Audit committee.
60 inclusion of one financially qualified without any executive members of the During the year it formally reviewed the member as recognised by the board being present.
groups interim and annual reports and the Consultative Committee of Accountancy The committee has unrestricted access interim management statements, issued Bodies with recent and relevant financial to Company documents and information, for the first and third quarters.
Currently, the committee as well as to employees of the Company reviews considered: chairman fulfils this requirement.
All and the external auditors.
committee members are expected to the accounting principles, policies be financially literate and to have an The committee may take independent and practices adopted in the groups understanding of the following areas: professional advice on any matters financial statements, any proposed covered by its terms of reference at the changes to them, and the adequacy the principles of, and developments Companys expense.
of their disclosure in the annual report: in, financial reporting including the applicable accounting standards and The committee chairman reports the important accounting issues, areas of statements of recommended practice: outcome of meetings to the board.
complexity and the actions, estimates and judgements of management in key aspects of the Companys The committees effectiveness is relation to financial reporting: operations including corporate reviewed on an annual basis as part of the policies and the groups internal boards performance evaluation process.
any significant adjustments to financial control environment: reporting arising from the audit: The terms of reference of the Audit matters which may influence the committee were reviewed and updated litigation and contingent liabilities presentation of accounts and key during the year and can be viewed on the affecting the group: and figures: Investors section of the Companys potential tax contingencies, compliance website www.
the principles of, and developments in, with statutory tax obligations and the company law, sector-specific laws and Meetings groups tax policy.
other relevant corporate legislation: The Audit committee met five times during the year including an additional the role of internal and external auditing meeting to consider tendering of the and risk management: and external audit.
The committee agenda the regulatory framework for the are linked to events in the groups groups businesses.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit committee in relation to the groups financial statements In the preparation of these financial statements a number of areas required the exercise of management judgement or a degree of estimation.
Set out below are the areas considered by the Audit committee to be the most significant accounting issues, of which impairment and tax provisions were the most material, together with details of how the committee concluded that such judgements and estimates were appropriate.
Significant accounting issue Audit committee assurance Impairment of goodwill, tangible The committee considered the reasonableness of cash flow projections which were based and intangibleassets on the most recent budget approved by the board and reflected managements expectations Assessment for impairment involves of sales growth, operating costs and margins based on past experience and external sources comparing the book value of an asset of information.
Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the annual budget were with its recoverable amount being the challenged to ensure they were appropriate for the products, industries and countries in 61 higher of value in use and fair value less which the relevant cash generating units operate.
The committee also reviewed the key costs to sell.
Value in use is determined assumptions made in deriving these projections: discount rates, growth rates, and expected with reference to projected future cash changes in production and sales volumes, selling prices and direct costs.
Refer to note 8 to flows discounted at an appropriate rate.
the financial statements for more details of these assumptions.
Both the cash flows and the discount The committee was satisfied that the discount rate assumptions appropriately reflected rate involve a significant degree of current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the estimation uncertainty.
The other assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.
The external auditor explained the results of their own review of the estimate of value in use, including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections as well as the long-term growth assumptions and discount rates.
On the basis of their audit work, and their challenge of the key assumptions, the external auditor concurred that no impairments were required.
Biological assets The sugar business has a good track record of calculating reliable estimates and any The valuation of growing sugar cane significant over or under-estimation becomes apparent in subsequent profit realisation.
requires management to estimate: Actual results were reviewed for consistency of measurement in the light of profit budgets and forecasts and the actual results of prior periods.
The committee was satisfied that the sucrose content in the cane and the appropriate assumptions had been made and consistently applied.
As biological assets expected cane and sucrose yields for the represent just 2% of total assets and 3% of net assets, material misstatement of the financial following season taking into account statements was considered highly unlikely.
weather conditions, harvesting programmes, and an assessment of the maturity of the cane at the balance sheet date: and the sucrose price, which depends on the markets to which the forthcoming crop is likely to be sold, the probable domestic and export prices, and related foreign currency exchange rates.
Post-retirement benefits Actuarial valuations of the groups pension schemes are undertaken every three years by Valuation of the groups pension schemes independent qualified actuaries who also provide advice to management on the assumptions and post-retirement medical benefit to be used, in intervening years, to update those valuations.
Details of the assumptions made schemes require various subjective in the current and previous two years are disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements judgements to be made including mortality together with the bases on which those assumptions have been made.
assumptions, discount rates and general The committee reviewed the assumptions by comparison with externally derived data and also inflation, salary inflation, and the rate of considered the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the surplus deficit to increase for pensions in payment and those changes in these key assumptions.
The principal accounting policy change in 2014 was the adoption of International Accounting Standard 19 relating to Employee Benefits.
In particular, the committee reviewed the impact that this change had on pension liability disclosures and the resultant requirement to restate earnings per share for 2013 to ensure that a meaningful comparison could be made with 2014 earnings.
Further details of the accounting policy change can be found on page 95.
The committee annually reviews the companys principles for managing tax risks.
Tax provisions The level of current and deferred tax The committee reviewed and challenged the provisions recorded at the balance sheet date and recognised in the financial statements management confirmed that they represent their best estimate of the likely financial exposure is dependent on subjective judgements faced by the Group.
as to the outcome of decisions by tax The external auditor explained to the committee the work they had conducted during the year, authorities in various jurisdictions around including how their audit procedures were focused on those provisions requiring the highest the world and the ability of the group to use degree of judgement.
The committee discussed with both management and the external tax losses within the time limits imposed auditor the key judgements which had been made.
It was satisfied that the judgements were by the various tax authorities.
See also Tax reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded were appropriate.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance Misstatements changes since the last annual Typically, the committee is required to Management reported to the committee assessment in the nature and extent approve the use of the external auditors that they were not aware of any material of significant financial risks and the to provide: accounting advice and training: or immaterial misstatements made groups ability to respond to changes employee benefit plan audits: corporate intentionally to achieve a particular in its business and the external responsibility, IT and other assurance presentation.
The auditors reported to the environment.
services: due diligence in respect of committee the misstatements that they acquisitions and disposals: certain Whistleblowing and fraud had found in the course of their work.
specified tax services including tax The groups whistleblowing policy After due consideration the committee compliance, tax planning and related contains arrangements for an concurred with management that no implementation advice: and certain other independent external service provider adjustments were required.
services when it is in the best interests to receive, in confidence, complaints on of the Company to do so and they can be Internal financial control and risk accounting, risk issues, internal controls, 62 undertaken without jeopardising auditor management auditing issues and related matters for independence.
No individually significant The committee is required to assist the reporting to the Audit committee as non-audit assignments that would require board to fulfil its responsibilities relating appropriate.
The Audit committee disclosure were undertaken in the to the adequacy and effectiveness of reviewed reports from internal audit financial year.
the control environment, controls over and the external service provider and financial reporting and the groups the actions arising therefrom.
The Company has a policy that any compliance with the UK Corporate recruits hired directly from the external The groups anti-fraud policy has been Governance Code.
To fulfil these duties, auditors must be pre-approved by the communicated to all employees and the committee reviewed: Group HR Director, and the Group Finance states that all employees have a Director or Group Financial Controller, the external auditors management responsibility for fraud prevention and with the chairman of the Audit committee letters and their Audit committee detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should being consulted as appropriate.
memoranda: be reported immediately and will be investigated vigorously.
The Audit The Audit committee has formally internal audit reports on key audit areas committee reviewed all instances of fraud reviewed the independence of its and significant deficiencies in the perpetrated against the company and the auditors.
KPMG LLP has provided financial control environment: action taken by management both to a letter confirming that it believes reports on the systems of internal pursue the perpetrators and to prevent it remains independent within the financial controls and risk management: recurrences.
meaning of the regulations on this matter and in accordance with their reports on fraud perpetrated against External audit professional standards.
the group: and Auditor independence The Audit committee is responsible for To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the the groups approach to IT, cyber the development, implementation and independence of the external auditors, security and whistleblowing.
monitoring of policies and procedures the Audit committee reviewed: Internal audit on the use of the external auditors for changes in external audit executives The Audit committee is required to assist non-audit services, in accordance with in the audit plan for the current year: the board to fulfil its responsibilities professional and regulatory requirements.
relating to the adequacy of the resourcing These policies are kept under review to a report from the external auditors and plans of internal audit.
To fulfil these meet the objective of ensuring that the describing their arrangements to duties, the committee reviewed: group benefits in a cost-effective manner identify, report and manage any from the cumulative knowledge and conflicts of interest: and internal audits reporting lines and experience of its auditors whilst also access to the committee and all the extent of non-audit services ensuring that the auditors maintain the members of the board: provided by the external auditors.
necessary degree of independence and internal audits plans and its objectivity.
Consequently, any non-audit Consideration is also given by the Audit achievement of the planned activity: work to be undertaken by the auditor in committee to the need to include the excess of 300,000 requires risk of the withdrawal of the external the results of key audits and other authorisation by the chairman of the Audit auditors from the market in its risk significant findings, the adequacy committee and the Group Finance evaluation and planning.
of managements response and Director prior to its commencement.
the timeliness of resolution: Individual assignments less than statistics on staff numbers, 300,000 are approved by the Group qualifications and experience and Finance Director.
The aggregate timeliness of reporting: expenditure with the group auditors is reviewed by the Audit committee.
the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit: and Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance Auditor effectiveness Richard Pinckard was appointed as KPMG To assess the effectiveness of the lead audit partner for the financial year external auditors, the committee ended September 2012 and would reviewed: ordinarily be expected to continue as lead audit partner until the conclusion the external auditors fulfilment of the of the 2016 audit.
Upon his appointment agreed audit plan and variations from it: Mr Pinckard undertook a detailed review reports highlighting the major issues of the external audit arrangements across that arose during the course of the audit: the group including a review of senior audit executives, and he presented his feedback from the businesses findings and recommendations to the evaluating the performance of each Audit committee.
As part of the normal assigned audit team: and 63 partner rotation arrangements, no a report from the Audit Quality Review changes were necessary in the current Team of the Financial Reporting year but one divisional audit executive Council FRC.
The Audit committee holds private The Audit committee is satisfied with the meetings with the external auditors auditors effectiveness and independence after each committee meeting to review and has recommended to the board that key issues within their sphere of interest KPMG LLP be reappointed as the and responsibility.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of KPMG LLP, or one of its predecessor the external audit process, the Audit firms, have been reappointed annually by committee reviewed: shareholders as auditor to the Company since its incorporation in 1935.
Whilst the the terms, areas of responsibility, Company has kept the effectiveness of associated duties and scope of the the relationship under review, no formal audit as set out in the external tender of the audit process has been auditors engagement letter for carried out since the original appointment.
the forthcoming year: Mindful of the requirements of the UK the external auditors overall work plan Corporate Governance Code that the for the forthcoming year: audit should be put out to tender every ten years, and the UK Competition & the external auditors fee proposal: Market Authoritys Order requiring the major issues that arose during the mandatory audit tendering at ten-year course of the audit and their resolution: intervals which comes into force in 2015, the Company has notified KPMG LLP of key accounting and audit judgements: its intention to put the audit out to tender the level of errors identified during the during 2015, with a view to a new firm audit: and being appointed to audit the financial statements for the year ending recommendations made by the 17 September 2016. external auditors in their management letters and the adequacy of The total fees paid to KPMG LLP for the managements response.
year ended 13 September 2014 were 9.1m of which 3.2m related to Auditor appointment non-audit work.
Further details are Although KPMG LLP or its predecessor provided in note 2 to the financial firms have been the Companys auditor statements.
for many years, the firm periodically changes its audit partners at a group, divisional and country level, in accordance with professional and regulatory standards, in order to protect independence and objectivity and provide fresh challenge to the business.
Such changes are carefully planned to ensure that the Company benefits from continuity of staffing without incurring undue risk or inefficiency.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
