Corporate governance statement As part of understanding the business, our effectiveness as Chairmans introduction a Board is also dependent on each of the directors absorbing and understanding large amounts of information.
I am pleased to report that the executive team take great care with the quality of the information provided to the Board and its Committees, whether as part of formal meeting packs or by way of updates or additional information at other times.
I have instituted an additional reporting and scrutiny process at Board meetings whereby each division provides an Annual Operating Review to the Board.
This supplements the existing divisional reporting processes to the Board and the Audit Committee and allows the Board to give increased focus to each division individually.
One of the innovations which my predecessor, Donald Brydon, instituted was to set annual objectives for the Board each year.
Sir George Buckley I believe this is a useful discipline and, at the final Board meeting of the year in July, the Board considered its performance against I have highlighted in my Chairmans statement the importance those objectives and agreed to set new objectives for this year.
of excellence in many areas of the Companys activities, such Of course, the Board also carries out comprehensive and rigorous as innovation, manufacturing, and customer service.
That annual reviews of its own performance, the performance of its commitment to excellence is no less important when it comes committees and the individual performance of its members.
the financial year 2013 14, this is an externally facilitated review, as further set out in the Corporate governance statement below.
I am honoured to be the Chairman of Smiths Group in its 100th year as a listed company.
I am committed to ensuring that the This year is the first year that the Company is subject to the Board provides the effective leadership which Smiths requires, new requirements in the UK Corporate Governance Code which as a diversified technology company operating in the complex includes the provision that the directors state in the annual report global environment of the 21st century, and which its and accounts that they consider that the report: shareholders rightfully expect.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The Smiths Board comprises nine people, with diverse provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess backgrounds, skills and experience, who share a collective the companys performance, business model and strategy.
responsibility for the long-term success of the Company.
paragraph C. 3.4 of the Code AsChairman, I lead the Board and strive to ensure that I and It is also the first year that the Company is subject to the my colleagues on the Board provide support and constructive new Remuneration Reporting Regulations and to the narrative challenge to the executive team, whether it be in formal Board reporting changes which require the Company to prepare a meetings or in less formal discussions with Philip and members strategic report and make a number of new disclosures.
The Audit Committee and the Board have discussed these topics As referred to in my Chairmans statement, I am very pleased to and considered, with the executive team, how best to ensure report the addition of Bill Seeger to the Board.
Bill not only brings good corporate reporting, which is clear and concise, whilst also us relevant and recent financial skills and expertise, having containing all the information required by shareholders.
It is spent the last seven years as Group Finance Director of GKN plc, always a tricky balancing act to provide all the information which but he also joins me and Tanya Fratto in providing valuable US regulation requires, whilst also producing a report which is useful commercial perspectives, further strengthening the international to our diverse shareholder community.
We will, of course, seek outlook and experience of the Board.
to continue to improve our reporting, as part of our commitment Bill has been engaged in an extremely thorough induction to maintaining a dialogue with our shareholders and other programme, visiting several sites in each of the Companys five stakeholders, but I hope that you find this years Annual Report divisions, as well as the Companys headquarters in London, and informative and helpful.
spending time with members of both the Corporate and divisional Sir George Buckley management teams and other colleagues.
Having recently Chairman completed my own extensive induction programme at Smiths, I am acutely aware of how valuable it is to engage with the Companys employees on their home turf, share their enthusiasm for Smiths products and skills and learn about their challenges.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 77 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Governance structure Board Executive Management Divisional Boards Committees Responsible for reviewing Executive Committee John Crane and agreeing the Groups Monitors performance of the strategy, provides the businesses and the functions Smiths Medical leadership of the Company, supporting the businesses and supervises the management makes recommendations on of the Company, monitors the implementation of strategy, Smiths Detection the operational and financial operations, people and performance of the Company organisational development Smiths Interconnect and reports to shareholders and Group policies.
on its stewardship of the shareholders assets.
Flex-Tek Monitor the delivery of short-term and mediumterm performance targets in accordance with the financial and operational performance targets and Board Committees the strategic plans set by the Board.
A corporate Disclosure Committee Makes recommendations member of the Executive Committee sits on each divisional board as an investor director.
concerning the identification Nomination Committee of inside information and Reviews the structure, size the timing and method of and composition of the Board disclosure and advises the and Board Committees and Functional Boards Chief Executive and the considers succession planning Board in accordance with the for directors and senior Companys disclosure policy.
Environment Health & Safety Steering Committee Develops and monitors implementation of EHS policies and strategy.
Security Committee Contributes to the development of Group Security Acquisitions & Divestments policies and associated minimum standards and Committee monitors their execution.
Considers, approves and sets Remuneration Committee conditions in relation to Group Makes recommendations to acquisitions and divestments the Board on the Companys Ethics Code Compliance Council within parameters established remuneration framework and Oversees the implementation of the Smiths by the Board.
sets the remuneration of the Group Code of Business Ethics and makes Chairman, the Chief Executive, recommendations to management and the Finance Director and to the Audit Committee.
Investment Committee Assesses high value and high risk proposals requiring the approval of the Board or the Chief Executive, including capital expenditure, asset disposal and special revenue expenditure projects including litigation costs : commercial bids contracts for supplying goods and services: Audit Committee reorganisation expenditure: contractual Monitors the integrity commitments to purchase goods and services: of the Companys financial research and development programmes: and statements, its systems of property freehold and leasehold.
internal controls and risk management and its internal and external audit findings.
IT Global Governance Board Responsible for all aspects of IT service support for the Groups business divisions and the corporate centre, including the delivery of all day to day IT services: the development of new IT solutions and services.
78 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board sets the Companys values and standards, including the Throughout the period 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2014 the Company Companys Code of Business Ethics which is referred to on pages has been in full compliance with the September 2012 edition 66 and 67. of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published The executive directors and senior management team are by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website responsible for the Companys financial performance, the https: www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporateday-to-day management of the Companys businesses and governance .
aspx except that: implementation of the strategy and direction set by the Board.
1 The Company has not put the external audit contract out to The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the tender for more than ten years.
The requirement in paragraph executive directors present at least twice a year.
The Senior C. 3.7 of the Code to put the external audit contract out to tender Independent Director meets the other non-executive directors at least every ten years applies to the Company for the first time without the Chairman present at least annually and is available this year, as it was not included in the version of the Code that to provide support to the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary applied last year.
It was the view of the Audit Committee and for the other directors, if required.
the Board that it would not be advisable to re-tender the audit contract in a year in which a new Chairman of the Company and Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the a new Chairman-elect of the Audit Committee were recruited.
benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
Taking into account the requirements in the Code, the final proposals of the Competition & Market Authoritys investigation into statutory audit services, and the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills proposals to implement the EUs June 2014 Audit Directive and Regulation, the Audit Committee will keep the issue of audit firm rotation under annual review.
2 The value of any fees received by executive directors in respect of external non-executive directorships is not disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, as this is not considered relevant to the Company.
The Company intends to continue to explain rather than comply with the Code in this limited area.
Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7 This Corporate Governance statement is a section of the Group directors report and is incorporated therein by reference.
Thisstatement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: 2.7: and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Group directors report on pages 111 and 112 and is incorporated in this Corporate governance statement by reference.
Directors The Board As at 15 September 2014, the Board comprises Sir George Buckley Chairman, Mr Philip Bowman Chief Executive, Mr Peter Turner Finance Director and six independent non-executive directors: Mr David Challen Senior Independent Director, Mr Bruno Angelici, Ms Tanya Fratto, Ms Anne Quinn, Mr Bill Seeger and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
Mr Donald Brydon retired from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting on 19 November 2013 and Sir George succeeded him as Chairman.
Biographies of the current directors, giving details of their experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages 74 to 76.
The Board and its committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The wide-ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure Board visit to Smiths Medical, that they can debate and constructively challenge management in St Paul, US relation to both the development of strategy and the evaluation of As part of its programme of visits to the performance against the goals set by the Board.
Groups businesses, the Board visited the head office and manufacturing The Board holds formal meetings at least six times a year to make facilities of Smiths Medical in St Paul, and review major business decisions and monitor current trading Minnesota, US, in May 2014.
The visit against plans which it has approved, and holds additional meetings included updates on strategy and to consider the strategy of each of the divisions and the strategy performance from senior management, of the Company.
The Board exercises control by determining a tour of the facility and the opportunity matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule which only to meetemployees.
the Board may change: these matters include the acquisition or divestment of significant companies or businesses, the issue of shares, significant contractual commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital expenditure.
Further meetings are arranged as necessary to deal with urgent items.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 79 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Board activities Trust and values Strategy and risk Ethics: health and safety and Operational, commercial and environmental management: security geographic strategies by Division and for Company as a whole: risk management reviews by division and at a Group level M&A Compliance and governance Current projects report: postBoard performance and effectiveness: acquisition reviews corporate governance updates: directors conflicts: share register: Board inside information and disclosure considerations: legal issues and litigation risk Operations Financials CEOs report: divisional performance Previous months trading: budgets and updates: divisions annual operating forecasts: financial risk and treasury reviews report: tax risk and status report: approval of trading statements Trust and values StPaul, USA in July.
The Chairman also approved the refinancing of its existing The Board sets the tone for the spoke on the theme of engineered US$800m bank facility, which was due Companys culture of compliance with for growth at the Groups senior to mature in December 2015.
The new high ethical standards and with all the management conference in Miami in May US$800m committed revolving credit laws and regulations that apply to its which was attended by over one hundred facility will mature in February 2019, businesses.
The Board supported the managers from across the Group.
with two one-year extension options.
holding of an Ethics Conference in Dubai In addition to the regular divisional Operations in October 2013 which addressed the risk reviews presented to the Audit The Board regularly monitors the ethical risks arising from operations in Committee, at least once a year the optimal operating structure of the Group, multiple jurisdictions, with particular Board reviews risks at a Group level.
In including consideration of the interaction focus on the Middle East.
The Board July this year the Group-wide risk report between the role of the Corporate Centre also participated in the online refresher that was presented to the Board included operating under the Boards direction training for the Code of Business Ethics analyses of risks faced by the Company and subject to the Boards reserved which was rolled out to all employees in the areas of contractual liabilities: powers and the divisions.
This year throughout the Group who had not exposure to developing markets: and there has been a particular focus on recently completed the training.
business and process transformation and the resources and optimum structure Strategy and risk the measures in place to mitigate these required, at both a divisional and Group The Board holds a number of dedicated risks.
A report on cyber-risk is submitted level, to achieve growth.
The new post of strategy sessions each year, focusing to each scheduled Board meeting.
Group Commercial Director was created on long-term targets and initiatives in May 2014 to leverage growth potential Compliance and governance to improve the growth, efficiency across all five divisions and lead initiatives The Board receives regular corporate and capability of each division and of on sales and marketing effectiveness and governance updates on relevant issues, the Company.
The information and expansion into key developing markets.
including amendments to the Listing proposals which are provided to the Rules and the UK Corporate Governance M&A Board are underpinned by a number Code and developments in regulatory and The Board considers a report on potential of workstreams amongst the executive legal regimes and sanctions.
changes to the Groups portfolio of assets teams in each division and on a Groupat each meeting and additional meetings wide basis.
This year initiatives included Financials of the Board are convened, as necessary, the establishment of a cross-divisional The Board considers the Groups trading to discuss significant acquisition and working group on additive manufacturing performance and financial risk at each divestment proposals.
also known as 3D printing, in order to meeting.
In September 2013, the Board share experience and resources.
The recommended the payment of a special Board saw at first hand the exciting dividend at the same time as the payment developments in this fast-moving area of the final dividend, in November 2013, when the Directors visited the 3D printing subject to shareholder approval at the facility at the Smiths Medical site in 2013 AGM.
In January 2014, the Board 80 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Board meetings Chairman and Chief Executive The table below shows the number of board meetings held during The Board has established clearly defined roles for the Chairman the financial year ended 31 July 2014 and, opposite each directors and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for name, the number of meetings they were eligible to attend and the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting number actually attended.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and Board meetings financial objectives.
Eligible to attend Attended Key roles and responsibilities D. H. Brydon Chairman to 19 Nov 2013 4 4 Chairman Sir George Buckley Deputy Chairman to 19 Nov 2013 and Chairman thereafter 10 10 The Chairmans responsibilities include: P. Bowman 10 10 Leadership of the Board P. A. Turner 10 10 Setting the agenda and tone for the Board B. F. J. Angelici 10 10 Promoting high standards of integrity and corporate governance D. J. Challen 10 10 Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board T. D. Fratto 10 10 A. C. Quinn 10 10 W. C. Seeger appointed 12 May 2014 2 2 Chief Executive Sir Kevin Tebbit 10 10 The Chief Executives responsibilities include: includes one occasion where matters were conducted by written resolution approved Ensuring implementation of the strategic and financial by all members of the Board objectives approved by the Board Providing leadership on all executive management matters Board visits affecting the Company The Board regards attendance at meetings as only one measure Chairing the Executive Committee of directors contributions to the Company.
In addition to formal Ensuring the proper management of the Companys diverse Board meetings, the directors attend other meetings and make stakeholder relationships including with shareholders, site visits during the year.
For example, as part of his induction, employees and customers Sir George visited a large number of the Companys sites in the USA and Europe and met employees and management in all five divisions.
Bill Seeger has also completed various site visits as part Senior Independent Director of his induction programme which will be completed by the end ofOctober 2014.
The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include: In January 2014 the Board visited the John Crane facility in Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman Acting as an intermediary for the directors where necessary Singapore: participated in the formal opening ceremony of the new Detection facility in Johor Bahru, Malaysia: and visited the Flex-Tek Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be resolved through the Chairman or executive facility, also in Johor Bahru.
The Board spent time with each of the local management teams.
In May 2014 the Board visited the head management Conducting an annual review of the Chairmans performance office and manufacturing facilities of Smiths Medical in St Paul, Minnesota, USA and in July 2014, the Board visited the Interconnect manufacturing facility of EMC RF Labs part of the Microwave business in Stuart, Florida, USA.
Company Secretary The Company Secretarys responsibilities include: Ensuring that all Board and Board Committee meetings areproperly held Assisting the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring thatthe directors are provided with all relevant information Organising new directors induction and ongoing training requirements Maintaining the Groups governance and listing rule compliance framework Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 81 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Board balance and independence Newly appointed directors undergo an induction programme to There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding such that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards of the Company and its activities.
They undertake briefing sessions decision making.
Throughout the financial year at least half the on corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance Board, excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent and risk management and HR, as well as meetings and site visits non-executive directors.
Each directors individual experience and background is taken into account in developing a programme In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board tailored to his or her own requirements.
Bill Seeger was well Committees, the need to refresh membership of the Committees versed in the obligations of UK-listed companies by virtue of his is taken into account.
The table on page 82 indicates the service, recent experience as the Finance Director of GKN plc, so the focus to 31 July 2014, of each of the directors.
Each of the non-executive of his induction has been on getting to know the Smiths products, directors is considered to be independent and Sir George was businesses and people.
He has visited more than ten US Smiths considered independent at the time of his appointment as sites and, by the time he completes his induction, will have visited Chairman.
In the light of the length of David Challens tenure at least another five sites in Europe.
on the Board, the Board and its committees have rigorously reviewed David Challens position as a non-executive director The Chairman consults with the directors on their respective and his committee memberships, taking into consideration his training and development requirements.
The suitability of external performance, judgements and character.
The Board is completely courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is satisfied that Mr Challen continues to be an independent director charged with facilitating the induction of new directors and with and should remain in the role of Senior Independent Director.
assisting in the ongoing training and development of all directors.
Appointments to the Board All directors have access to the advice and services of the The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take procedure for the appointment of new directors, which are made independent professional advice at the Companys expense should on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for the thisberequired.
benefits of diversity, including gender.
This procedure was followed Conflicts of interest in the appointment of Sir George Buckley as an independent Under the 2006 Act a director must avoid a situation where he non-executive director and Deputy Chairman on 1 August 2013 or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts and the appointment of Bill Seeger as a non-executive director or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
Further information in relation to the recruitment requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director of Bill Seeger is described in the Nomination Committee report becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another on page90.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies The Board is satisfied that the directors are able to allocate to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate and sufficient time to their responsibilities relating to the Company.
where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
During the year, the Board considered the other engagements and Article 76 5 of the Companys articles provides that the directors proposed engagements of the directors as part of the Directors can authorise potential conflicts of interest.
conflicts of interest procedure as further described below.
The Board has put procedures in place for directors to report any Information and professional development potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for The Board is provided with detailed information up to a week in their authorisation where appropriate.
Each director is aware of advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and nonthe requirement to seek approval of the Board for any new conflict executive directors have ready access to the executive directors situations, as they may arise.
The process of formally reviewing and other senior corporate staff.
Non-executive directors are conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given including such also provided with information and updates between meetings.
conditions as the Board may determine in each case, is repeated Regular site visits are arranged and non-executive directors are twice a year.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the encouraged to visit sites independently.
During site visits, briefings Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board are arranged and the directors are free to discuss aspects of the minutes and in a register of directors conflicts which is maintained business with employees at all levels.
Tenure of the Board The Board and Nomination Committee regularly review the mix of skills and experience on the Board.
The chart illustrates the good balance of longer-standing Board members and more recent appointments, providing both continuity and fresh perspectives.
4.3 years P. A. Turner 6.6 years P. Bowman 0.2 years W. C. Seeger 1.0 years Sir George Buckley 2.1 years T. D. Fratto 4.1 years B. J. F. Angelici 5.0 years A. C. Quinn 8.1 years Sir Kevin Tebbit 9.9 years D. J. Challen 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 82 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Performance evaluation the performance reviews undertaken in 2013, the performance The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of of each of the directors standing for re-election at this years its own performance and that of its Committees and each director.
AGM continues to be effective and that they each continue to In respect of the year ended 31 July 2013, the Board evaluation was demonstrate commitment to their respective roles and dedicate conducted by the Company Secretary using internally administered the time necessary to perform their duties.
The questionnaire required each of the directors to Remuneration consider the performance of the Board and each of the main Board Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on committees against a number of criteria, including effectiveness of page 91 and the Directors remuneration report is on pages 92 to 109. leadership, efficiency of meetings, time and focus given to particular areas, information issues, corporate governance standards and Accountability and audit the extent to which the objectives set by the Board had been met.
Financial reporting The Board evaluation completed in respect of the year ended The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and 31July 2013 identified a number of key strengths of the Board or understandable assessment of the Companys position and its functions and activities, including focused and productive Board prospects in the Annual Report and in interim and other public meetings: the high-quality materials provided at Board meetings: reports.
The directors are required to explain in the Annual Report a very effective Audit Committee: the orderly process to secure the the basis on which the Company both generates and preserves outgoing Chairmans succession, ably supported by the Nomination value over the longer term and its strategy for delivering the Committee: and a well-managed corporate governance programme.
The Board is satisfied that it has met these obligations in this Annual Report.
A summary of the directors Following on from the review, the Board noted a number of points responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 118. which it considered could enhance its performance, including The going concern statement required by the Code is set out in creating more opportunities for the non-executive directors to visit the Group directors report on page 111. the divisions, improving the monitoring of business performance by reference to competitors and spending more time on succession Internal control planning.
The Board also set itself a series of written objectives for The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent the year ended 31 July 2014, including to: of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular objectives and maintains sound risk management and internal continue to seek and test opportunities for portfolio control systems to safeguard shareholders investments and the rationalisation: Companys assets.
The effectiveness of the internal control system better monitor how innovation is driving growth in new product is reviewed at least annually by the Audit Committee, covering all sales: material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee encourage a culture where learnings from past mistakes prevent carried out such a review during the year ended 31 July 2014. repetition: and The Company has in place internal control and risk management ensure a successful transition to a new Chairman.
systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process The Board noted the additional work during the year in linking and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
innovation to revenue growth: the renewed emphasis on inorganic These systems include policies and procedures that: pertain to growth and portfolio rationalisation subject to market conditions : the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and the increased candour and transparency in relation to the and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide sharing of lessons learned in a number of areas.
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance The Board evaluation for the year ended 31 July 2014 is in with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : require progress and is being facilitated by Ms Sheena Crane, an external representatives of the businesses to certify that their reported consultant.
The Company has no other connections with Ms Crane.
information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The results of the evaluation will be presented to the Board in business and its results for the period: and review and reconcile November 2014 and will be used to inform further the Boards reported data.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring approach and its objectives.
these internal control and risk management systems.
The current directorships in listed companies and other significant The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk and commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor are shown on pages 74 to 76.
During the year, Bruno Angelici compliance with procedures.
The procedures for accountability and was appointed as Chairman of Vectura Group Limited: Advanced control are outlined below.
Drainage Systems, Inc. on whose board Tanya Fratto sits, successfully conducted an initial public offering: David Challen The Companys internal control systems are designed to meet the retired from his positions at Citigroup and Anglo American: and Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed Sir Kevin Tebbit relinquished the chairmanship of the Industry and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, Advisory Group to the UKTI Defence and Security Organisation.
assurance against material loss to the Company or material It is confirmed that the Chairman and the non-executive directors misstatement in the financial accounts.
have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company The Group has an embedded process for the identification, and that no executive director holds more than one non-executive evaluation and management of significant business risks.
directorship of another FTSE 100 company.
Theprocess is reviewed through the Audit Committee and monitored Re-election by the Group Internal Audit Department.
The Company has during All directors stand for election by the shareholders at the first the year identified and evaluated the key risks and has ensured that AGM following their appointment.
The Board has resolved that effective controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks.
all directors who are willing to continue in office will stand for reIn the highly regulated environment of the industries in which the election by the shareholders each year at the AGM.
Non-executive Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed operating directors are appointed for a specified term of three years, subject procedures manuals and are reinforced by training programmes.
now to annual re-election at each AGM, and reappointment for a These are designed to ensure compliance not only with the second three-year term is not automatic.
Any term for a nonregulatory requirements but also with general principles of executive director beyond six years is subject to a particularly business integrity.
The Chairman has confirmed that, following Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 83 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued A key element in any system is communication: the executive inthe main through distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
directors and senior corporate staff meet regularly with At least twice a year a report is made to the Board on the number representatives from the businesses to address financial, human and types of meetings between the Company and institutional resource, legal, risk management and other control issues.
The Board is confident that this process enables the non-executive directors to maintain a balanced understanding of Throughout the financial year the Board, through the Audit the views and concerns of major shareholders.
In 2014, SirGeorge Committee, reviews the effectiveness of internal control and the Buckley met with many of the Groups largest shareholders as management of risks.
In addition to financial and business reports, part of his induction.
More broadly, the Chairman, the Senior the Board has reviewed mediumand longer-term strategic Independent Director and the other non-executive directors plans: management development programmes: reports on key are available to meet shareholders on request.
operational issues: tax: treasury: risk management: insurance: legal matters: and Audit Committee reports, including internal Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting and external auditors reports.
All directors normally attend the Companys AGM and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting Audit Committee and Auditors and to meet directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
The Audit Committee makes formal and transparent It is intended that there shall be a poll vote on each resolution at arrangements for considering how financial reporting and the 2014 AGM.
The audited, final results of the poll votes will be internal control principles are applied and for maintaining an released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the appropriate relationship with the independent external auditors, Companys website, www.
com, as soon as is practicable  LLP.
after the conclusion of the AGM.
Relations with shareholders All the directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination Dialogue with shareholders and Remuneration Committees, were available at the 2013 AGM to The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Director, Investor answer shareholders questions.
The notice of the AGM and related Relations communicate with institutional investors through papers were sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before analysts briefings and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, the meeting.
US and continental Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange Board Committees announcements, meetings with management and site visits as The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees shown in the table below.
Members of the Board, and in particular are available upon request and on the Companys website, non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors views, www.
Investor relations activities timeline 2013-2014 Roadshows Presentations July 2014 Switzerland May 2014 UK, Sweden April 2014 UK, US, Germany, France March 2014 UK Interim results January 2014 UK Chairman roadshow December 2013 Private client brokers John Crane Capital Markets Day, Dubai November 2013 Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, France, Private client brokers AGM October 2013 UK, US, Canada, Germany, Private client brokers September 2013 UK Annual results During financial year 2013 14, senior management and the Contact with investors analysts 4 investor relations team had contact with over 300 analysts 1 United Kingdom 55% 3 and investors.
2 US and Canada 28% 3 Rest of Europe 12% 4 Rest of World 5% 1 2 John Crane Capital Markets Day, Dubai In December 2013, we held a capital markets day at our John Crane business in Dubai.
The programme included presentations on the divisions strategy, business model, markets and growth opportunities, as well as a tour of the facility.
Investors and analysts were also taken on an airside tour of Detections operations at Dubai International Airport.
84 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 All members served on the Committee throughout the year Audit Committee except Bill Seeger, who was appointed as a member of the Committee and as its Chairman-elect on his appointment to the Board on 12 May2014.
It is expected that Mr Seeger will take over Chairmanship of the Committee after the AGM on 19November2014.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors and, in the view of the Board, have recent and relevant financial and accounting experience, gained from their respective business activities in international businesses.
In particular, David Challen has held a number of senior finance roles in investment banking and advisory roles in City financial institutions, including membership of the Financial Reporting Councils advisory group of audit committee chairmen.
Bill Seeger has retired this year from David Challen, CBE the position of Group Finance Director of GKN plc which post he Chairman of the Audit Committee had held for over six years.
Further details of the qualifications and experience of the members of the Committee are contained in the biographies of the directors in pages 74 to 76.
Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee The financial year ended 31 July 2014 is the first year that the There have been no changes to the membership of the Committee 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode since the financial year-end.
has applied to the Company.
The Audit Committee has Meetings and attendance considered guidance from the Financial Reporting Council and other sources on the changes introduced by the Code, The Committee met three times during the 2013 14 financial year, with the meetings timed to coincide with the financial reporting and including the revisions to the role of audit committees.
We have implemented the necessary amendments both to our terms of audit cycles of the Company the approval of the Annual Report in September: the approval of the half-year report in March: and the reference and processes and to the reports we receive, in order to ensure the Committee has been able to monitor effectively presentation of the pre-year end early warnings report from PwC in July.
The Committee has agreed to a meeting schedule over the the Companys compliance with the Code.
The Committee has also carefully considered the tenure of PwC as the Companys next two financial years that will align with expected future key financial reporting and audit cycle events.
external auditor and has taken into account guidance on the audit tendering process issued by various sources, including the The attendance record of the members of the Committee was: Institutional Investor Committee.
Details of the work performed by the Committee over the year are outlined in the new, expanded Audit Committee Committee report below.
Eligible to attend Attended Upon joining the Board, Bill Seeger also joined the Committee D. J. Challen Chairman 3 3 and he will succeed me as Chairman after this years AGM.
B. F. J. Angelici 3 3 He has extensive experience in the finance functions of major T. D. Fratto 3 3 industrial companies, most recently as the Group Finance A. C. Quinn 3 3 Director of GKN plc, and so is ideally suited to take over the W. C Seeger appointed 12 May 2014 1 1 Chairmanship of this Committee.
Sir Kevin Tebbit 3 3 Throughout the year we have enjoyed excellent relationships with the external auditors, Internal Audit and the Groups More information can be found at www.
We appreciate the contribution they have all made to the effective operation of the Committee.
In a group with the In order to maintain effective communications between all relevant scale, diversity and geographical spread of Smiths Group, issues parties, the following were frequent attendees at the meetings: relating to internal financial and other risk controls, codes of the Group Chairman: conduct and ethical standards arise from time to time for review by the Committee.
We are satisfied that the Group has systems the Group Finance Director: in place to identify such issues promptly and that management the Group Financial Controller: has the appropriate processes and resources available to address them effectively.
the Company Secretary: the Director of Internal Audit: Committee membership the Group Director of Tax and Treasury: and The members of the Committee during the 2013 14 financial year were: the Group audit partners of the external auditor,  LLP PwC.
Audit Committee Appointed Last re-appointed Annual presentations on risk management were given to the Committee by the divisional president of each of the five divisions: D. J. Challen Chairman 21 September 2013 and the head of Business Information Services BIS the Groups B. F. J. Angelici 1 July 2013 IT function.
The Senior Vice-President & General Counsel Ethics T. D. Fratto 1 July 2012 & Compliance reported on the implementation of the Business A. C. Quinn 1 August 2012 Ethics Programme: the work of the Companys Code Compliance W. C Seeger 12 May 2014 Council: and the investigations into allegations of non-compliance Sir Kevin Tebbit 12 July 2012 with the Ethics Code, including issues raised through the Groups whistle-blowing procedures.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 85 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued At the conclusion of the meetings, the representatives of the The Chairman of the Audit committee reports formally to external auditor were given the opportunity to discuss matters the full Board on the activities of the Committee after each without executive management being present.
Internal Audit, the Senior Vice-President & General Counsel Written terms of reference that define the Committees authority Ethics & Compliance and the external auditors have direct access to and responsibility are available on our website at www.
the Chairman and the members of the Committee should he or they wish to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
Financial reporting During the financial year, the Committee: The members of the Committee also had the opportunity to meet separately at the end of each meeting to discuss any relevant considered information presented by management on key matters in the absence of all the invitees.
matters of accounting judgements and policies, adopted in respect of the Companys 2013 Annual Report and 2014 half-year The members of the Committee receive briefing notes from the report, and relevant changes to accounting standards and agreed Company and from PwC on all relevant developments in company their appropriateness: law: governance standards: and international and domestic financial accounting practices and regulations.
Mr Seeger is discussed with PwC the firms audit reports and noted the key undergoing a tailored induction process following his appointment accounting matters and significant judgements highlighted by as a director of the Company and a member of the Committee.
PwC in respect of each set of financial statements: All the members of the Committee attended the Annual General reviewed documentation prepared to support the statement Meeting of the Company in November 2013 apart from Mr Seeger, on internal control in the 2013 Annual Report, and was satisfied who was not in post at the time.
that the Company was operating an effective system of internal controls to manage risk: Outside of the formal meetings schedule, the Chairman of the Audit committee has met separately with senior management reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern of the Company, the representatives of PwC and the Director judgement in the 2013 Annual Report, and concluded that the of Internal Audit to discuss the Companys governance.
accounts had been properly prepared on a going concern basis: Role and responsibilities examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity adequacy, clarity and completeness of the 2013 Annual Report of the financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance and 2014 half-year report and the announcement of the annual of sound internal control and risk management systems.
This results, including the treatment of some items as non-headline: includes responsibility for monitoring and reviewing: has reported to the Board its views on significant financial the integrity of the Groups financial statements: the significant reporting issues and judgements applied to the 2013 Annual reporting issues and judgements contained therein: and the Report, the 2014 half-year report and the associated information reports of the external and internal auditors thereon: releases including matters communicated to the Committee by the external auditors : the business review and corporate the basis for the Groups going concern statements: governance statements in the 2013 Annual report: and financial announcements released by the Company and any considered and approved management proposals to introduce reports or returns made by the Group to financial regulators: the changes necessary to ensure full compliance in the Companys the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external 2014 Annual Report with the requirements of the Companies auditors, including auditor independence and objectivity: auditor Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards and 2013: the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code guidance: audit fees: and provision of non-audit services: the Code : and The Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the terms of engagement of the external auditor: thenewregulations.
the scope of the annual external audit plan and the quality and Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Committee experience of the external audit team assigned to its execution: has also reviewed and reported to the Board on the reports the reports of the external auditor, including any major issues and information supplied by management and by PwC on the or reservations and significant accounting and audit judgements judgements and policies adopted for the 2014 Annual Report: arising therein: the content of that document: approved the statement on internal controls and the going concern statement: and the content of the the effectiveness of the external audit process, making announcement of the financial results for 2013 14. recommendations to the Board on the appointment or re-appointment or the removal of the external auditors: Narrative reporting This Annual Report is the first time that the 2012 edition of the the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function and UK Corporate Governance Code has applied to the Company.
the appropriateness of the resources available thereto: Atthe request of the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the the effectiveness of the Groups policies on internal control and full content of the draft Annual Report and advised the Board that, risk management systems in the evaluation and management taken as a whole, the Committee considered the report to be fair, of significant business risk: balanced and understandable and that shareholders had been provided with the information necessary properly to assess the statements on the assessment and management of risks and Companys performance, business models and strategies over on internal controls: the 2013 14 financial year.
the Groups implementation of the Companys Code of Business Ethics and Business Ethics Programme, including the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise any issues of concern and the process for the investigation and resolution of any such issues: and the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and systems and controls for preventing bribery.
86 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 External audit Non-audit services In relation to the activities of the external auditor, during the In order to safeguard auditor independence, the Committee has financial year, the Committee: monitored compliance with the Group policy on the appointment of external auditors.
Non-audit services are divided into three considered PwCs audit reports on the 2013 Annual Report and categories in relation to the incumbent external auditor: the 2014 half year report and its Early Warning report on the 2013 14 audit: Pre-approved but subject to the Group Finance Directors approval for projects likely to exceed 10,000 where the threat monitored PwCs execution of the audit plan for 2013 14: to auditor objectivity and independence is considered low, such discussed all major issues identified by PwC during the course as regulatory compliance work: tax advisory work: and low-level of the audit, including the key accounting and audit judgements acquisition work: taken by management: Permitted but subject to the approval of the Audit Committee for agreed materiality levels with PwC and accepted the low-level, projects over 10,000 and competitive tendering for projects over uncorrected misstatements identified in the audit: 100,000 such as larger acquisitions: corporate reorganisation: tax structuring: and IT risk and security: reviewed and approved PwCs audit plan and terms of engagement for 2014, noting that both the statutory audit report Not permitted such as book keeping: financial system design: and the Audit Committee report in the Corporate Governance actuarial services: management functions: and internal audit.
section of the 2014 Annual Report would need to be expanded The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit work performed to comply with the requirements of the new regulations for by PwC during the financial year had been properly assessed the first time: and authorised in accordance with the Group policy.
reviewed the non-audit fees payable to PwC and found them to External auditor independence have been incurred in accordance with the policy on the provision The Committee is responsible for the development, of non-audit services: implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on conducted the annual review of the independence and objectivity external audit which are designed to maintain the objectivity and of PwC and was satisfied that PwCs behaviour had been independence of the external auditors.
These policies also regulate professional in both respects: the appointment by the Group of former employees of PwC and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors for determined that PwC remained effective in its role as external non-audit work.
auditor: and External auditors are not permitted to provide services which recommended to the Board that PwC be proposed for could result in: re-appointment as external auditor at the 2013 AGM for a further year.
the external auditor auditing its own firms work: Subsequent to the financial year-end, the Committee has the external auditor making management decisions for the considered the same items in respect of the 2014 Annual Report Group: and recommended that PwC be proposed for re-appointment at a mutuality of interests being created: or the 2014 AGM.
the external auditor being put in the role of advocate for the In preparation for the expiry of Martin Hodgsons five-year tenure Group.
as Group audit engagement leader and statutory auditor, at the conclusion of the 2014 audit, the Committee met with and The Committees review of the independence of the external approved the appointment of Andy Kemp as his successor.
He has auditors included: shadowed the 2014 Group audit and has taken over as Group audit examining written confirmation from PwC that they remained engagement leader following the signing of the 2014 audit report.
independent and objective within the context of applicable External audit plan professional standards: PwC presented its Group Audit Plan for the financial year ending considering the tenure of the audit engagement partner, who 31 July 2014.
The Committee discussed with PwC its risk matrix is required to rotate every five years in line with ethical standards and the factors affecting the various audit risk assessments: and has so rotated following the conclusion of the 2014 audit : the proposed audit scope, taking into consideration statutory audit requirements, financially significant components and significant monitoring the ratio between the fees for audit work and nonrisk components and central programme testing: materiality audit services: and levels: the testing of IT controls within the ERP environments in checking that management confirmed compliance with the Detection, John Crane and Medical: and the impact of changes Groups policies on the employment of former employees of PwC in governance regulations and professional standards.
The and the use of PwC for non-audit work.
Committee considered the resources proposed by PwC, including the qualities, seniorities and experience of the audit team As a result of this review, the Committee concluded that members, to be consistent with the scope of the audit.
Due to the PwC remained appropriately independent in the role of rotation of the Group engagement leader at the end of the audit, externalauditors.
it was agreed that his successor would shadow him during the Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2013 14 can be found in note 2 audit.
It was noted that the Audit Plan had been discussed and to the 2013 Annual Report.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2013 14 co-ordinated with Internal Audit and that 88% of Group revenue amounted to 0.8m which related principally to tax, consulting and would be covered by the combination of the audit scope and local IT services.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees totalled statutory audits.
The fee structure and terms of engagement, 17%.
All such activities remained within the policy approved by which had been agreed with Smiths management, and PwCs theBoard.
assessment of its independence were considered appropriate for the work proposed and were approved.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 87 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued External auditor effectiveness and reappointment Internal control and risk management The Committees review of the performance of PwC and the In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Committee: effectiveness of the external audit process included consideration reported to the Board on its evaluation of the Groups risk of the views and opinions of the executive directors and senior assurance framework and embedded risk management management on PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas processes, based on consideration of the Groups control including independence and objectivity, audit strategy and planning, environment and ERP systems and on fraud risk: the audits conduct and communication, audit findings and feedback, and undertaken by Internal Audit: and the risk management reports expertise and resourcing.
presented by and discussed with each of the divisions and BIS: The Committee also considered the results of the survey reviewed managements plans to mitigate and remedy the failings conducted by PwCs independent client perspective team on and weaknesses in the Companys internal financial and risk the 2012 13 Group audit and the review meetings between PwCs controls that were identified by PwC and Internal Audit and has independent senior partner and the Companys Chief Executive, monitored their effectiveness: and Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The results were positive and confirmed that both PwC and its audit considered and approved the Committee Chairmans responses process were appropriate and effective and that the relationships to the UK Cyber Security Health Check issued by the UK between the audit teams and the Companys businesses were Government to all FTSE 350 companies.
The Committee recognised the challenges in The Board has reserved to itself responsibility for reviewing the ensuring consistency in the audit process across the whole Group effectiveness of the identification and management of risk at the and the need to continue to improve communication at local and Group level.
Each division also presents an analysis of its own divisional levels.
business strategic risks to the Board on an annual basis.
The Committee received and considered the Independence Letters, Further information on the Groups systems of internal control sent by PwC in September 2013 in respect of its 2012 13 audit and and risk management is given on pages 83 and 84.
September 2014 in respect of the 2013 14 audit, and concurred with PwCs opinion that it had complied with all relevant regulatory Internal audit and professional requirements and that the firms objectivity had During the financial year the Committee: not been compromised.
received progress reports on the execution of the 2013 14 The Committee reviewed the findings in the Financial Reporting Internal Audit Plan which comprised 61 site audits: audits Councils 2013 14 Audit Quality Inspection report on PwC and of the five divisional headquarters: and three programme satisfied itself that the quality of the work exhibited by the firm managementreviews : and its commitment to improvements were of a sufficiently discussed the recommendations made by the internal auditors: highstandard.
reviewed the progress being made by management in reducing PwC has been the Companys external auditor since its formation the numbers of aged outstanding recommendations: in 1998, although a predecessor organisation of PwC has held office as sole auditor from 1997.
In determining whether to reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit as a part of the recommend PwC for reappointment as auditors in 2014, the Companys risk management process, including its use of KPMG Committee took into consideration the following factors: as an external contractor to provide additional facilities and capabilities in certain overseas audit visits: the length of PwCs appointment and the guidance on the new audit firm rotation proposals: considered the remit of Internal Audit, its budget and resources and its outsourcing to KPMG: and the results of the effectiveness review detailed above: approved the 2014 15 Internal Audit Plan 59 site visits and six the qualities and experience of the new audit partner following programme management audits, including the proposed audit the rotation of the previous audit partner whose five-year term scope, approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
expired at the completion of the 2013 14 audit, and Treasury and tax the appointment of two new non-executive directors, Sir George During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the report Buckley who took over as Chairman of the Company in November of the Treasury department of the Group on financial risk and 2013, and Bill Seeger, appointed as a non-executive director and treasury management, noting the Groups borrowing position as Chairman-elect of the Audit Committee in May 2014. and debt capacity.
The efficacy of the new framework for setting Taking these elements into account, the Committee concluded a banking counterparty limits, approved in July 2013, which involves that it would not be advisable to put the auditor appointment out the use of both S&P ratings and CDS levels, was duly monitored.
to competitive tender at this stage and b that it was appropriate The Committee also received status reports on tax risk from the to recommend to the Board that the reappointment of PwC as the Groups tax department, noting the assessments of compliance, Companys auditors for a further year be proposed to shareholders.
tax audit risk, tax provisions and international tax rates.
Taking into account the requirements in the Code and the Ethics consultation phases of both the Competition & Market Authoritys During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the annual investigation into statutory audit services and the Department for report on the Ethics programme, including the progress made in Business, Innovation & Skills proposals to implement the EUs improving and extending the training programmes available for the June 2014 Audit Directive and Regulation, the Committee will Companys Code of Business Ethics and the further dissemination keep the issue of audit firm rotation under regular review.
of the programmes to the Companys smaller and more remote There are no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the locations.
The expansion of the Code to include third parties and Groups choice of external auditors.
business partners was duly noted.
The report included details of the investigations into allegations of non-compliance with the Ethics Code and whistleblowing events, including bribery and corruption investigations.
The Committee commended the reduction in the number of substantiated complaints that were being reported.
88 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Constitution and membership Impairment During the year the Committee considered and approved changes The Committee considered the Groups carrying value of to its terms of reference to reflect the changes contained in the intangible assets and the assumptions used to justify the carrying new Code.
Particular attention was given to the carrying value of goodwill for Smiths Interconnect Power and Smiths Detection The Committee has also reviewed rigorously the performance following the underperformance of these businesses in 2013 14, of David Challen as a member and as Chairman of the Committee, as well as capitalised development assets for Smiths Medical and in accordance with the Committees decision last year to review Smiths Detection.
The Committee also reviewed the fair value less Mr Challens membership annually, following the completion of his costs to sell for Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Power.
third three-year term in office in September 2013.
The Committee, The Committee agreed that the projected future cash flows from with Mr Challen excluded from voting, determined to recommend these businesses and assets supported the carrying value and the to the Nomination Committee and the Board of directors that disclosures contained in the financial statements appropriately Mr Challen be reappointed as a member of the Committee from reflect the sensitivity of the judgements made.
Details of the expiry of his current term until the earlier of a year from the impairment testing and sensitivities are included in note 12 expiry date of his current term and the date on which he ceases of the financial statements.
to be a director of the Company and as Chairman from the expiry of his current term until the earlier of a year from the expiry date Working capital of his current term and the date on which he ceases to be a The Committee considered the key judgements within working director of the Company or the date he steps down from the capital and considered the harmonisation of provisioning policy Chairmanship of the Committee.
in Smiths Detection following a full review of working capital in the year.
The Committee determined that the judgments made Performance evaluation were appropriate to justify the working capital provision levels An annual evaluation of the performance of the Committee is at 31July2014.
conducted as part of the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board.
Provisions for liabilities and charges The Committee continued to monitor carefully the expert In respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 the Board evaluation was assessments of the financial exposure of the Group to the John conducted by the Company Secretary using internally administered Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation and to the Titeflex, Inc. CSST claims.
The evaluation considered the balance of skills, The treatment of potential liabilities and the assumptions made experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on in calculating the provisions were reviewed and determined the Board and its diversity in the widest sense and other factors fairly to reflect the position at 31 July 2014.
Furtherdetails relevant to its effectiveness.
The questionnaire required each of of the assumptions used are included in note 23 of the the directors to consider the performance of the Board and each financialstatements.
of the main Board committees against a number of criteria.
In the case of the Audit Committee evaluation, those criteria included Deferred taxation effectiveness of the leadership provided by the Chairman, clarity The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the Groups of the definition of the role and scope of the Committee: adequacy assumptions and judgements in relation to the estimates of the of the schedule of meetings: efficiency of meetings, the ability of assets and liabilities to be recognised in income and deferred tax.
the Committee to carry out a comprehensive review of the integrity Particular focus was given to deferred tax assets relating to the of the Annual Report: and the adequacy of the assessment of John Crane, Inc. asbestos provision, the Titeflex CSST provision the effectiveness of the external auditors.
On a scale of 1 to 7, and Smiths Detection.
In reviewing projected profit streams the the assessment criteria relating to the Committee were scored Committee was satisfied that the relevant entities will generate between 6.7 and 7.0. sufficient future profits to utilise these assets.
Furtherdetails on movements in tax balances are set out in note 7 of the Significant judgements and issues financialstatements.
An important responsibility of the Audit Committee is to review and agree the most significant management judgements and Post-retirement benefits issues.
To satisfy this responsibility, the Committee requests a The Committee reviewed and agreed the methods, assumptions written formal update from the Finance Director and Director of and benchmarks used by the actuaries to calculate the position Tax and Treasury twice a year and requires regular reports from of the UK and US schemes at 31 July 2014.
The Committee agreed the external auditors at each committee meeting The Committee the treatment and the corresponding disclosures on this matter carefully considers the content of these reports and the most and noted that a reliable estimate will be made by the scheme significant issues and areas of judgement raised.
The key areas trustees in 2014 15.
More detail on post-retirement benefits is of judgement in the year were as follows: contained in note 9 of the financial statements.
Revenue recognition Advice The Committee reviewed the key judgements on revenue The Committee has independent access to the services of recognition.
Attention was given to large, multi-faceted and nonInternal Audit and to the external auditors and may obtain outside standard contracts in Smiths Detection and to contracts where professional advice, at the expense of the Company, as it sees fit, point of completion accounting was used in Smiths Detection in the performance of its duties.
Following their review, the Committee concluded that the revenue judgements made were appropriate.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 89 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Membership Nomination Committee During the financial year the members of the Committee were: Mr Brydon Chairman of the Committee up to his retirement from the Board and the Committee on 19 November 2013, SirGeorge Buckley appointed as a member of the Committee on 1August 2013 and Chairman of the Committee from Mr Brydons retirement, Mr Angelici, Mr Challen, Ms Fratto, Ms Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
Mr Seeger joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 12 May 2014.
The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as directors of the Company and as Company Secretary and their removal or retirement, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nomination Committee and the composition Sir George Buckley and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee It reviews regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Introduction from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the independence of the non-executive directors, and makes The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the structure, recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
size and composition of the Board and the Board Committees and consider succession planning for directors and senior In October 2013 the Nomination Committee resolved to seek an additional member of the Board to succeed David Challen as management, to ensure that the Company has the correct balance of skills, experience and knowledge to meet the Chairman of the Audit Committee in due course.
The Nomination Committee appointed Egon Zehnder EZ to handle the search.
changing needs of the Company.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board with the review of the talent pipeline for The Nomination Committee worked with EZ to produce a detailed specification for the role including the capabilities and attributes senior management roles.
This is particularly important in a multi-industry global company with a fivedivision structure, which were either required or desirable.
These included the benefits to the Board of diversity in its widest sense gender, where talented individuals in one division may not be personally known to the leadership team in another division.
nationality, age, experience, and background and the particular skills which would benefit Smiths as a multi-industry company In July 2014 the Nomination Committee carried out a detailed operating in a global market.
After an extensive search and review of leadership talent across the Group, facilitated by interview process, which involved nearly every member of the the Group HR director, the Group Director of Leadership and Board, the Nomination Committee was pleased to recommend Talent and the Group Director of Reward.
The review focused to the Board the appointment of Bill Seeger as a non-executive on succession planning, especially in the context of the number director and as Chairman-elect of the Audit Committee.
of changes in the Executive Committee in the last year, and the MrSeeger was also appointed as a member of the Nomination action needed to improve the bench strength.
It also noted the and Remuneration Committees.
improvements made in the talent development architecture to drive a more focused and consistent approach to developing our The Chairman and the rest of the Board continue to support Lord Davies aspiration for female board representation, but this leadership capability.
The Committee also reviewed a number of initiatives now in place to support our growth strategy, including presents a particular challenge for a small board.
The appointment of Bill Seeger has meant that the proportion of women on the increased focus on engineering talent through the introduction of an Engineering Council, the integrated approach to management Board has fallen below 25%.
training and the launch of the new global performance The Nomination Committee and the Board remain committed reviewsystem.
to ensuring diversity is included within the remit for appointments at all levels in the Company, but does not think it is appropriate to Meeting attendance set specific Group-wide targets or objectives at this stage.
At the talent management and succession planning review presented Nomination Committee to the Nomination Committee in July 2014, the Committee was Eligible to attend Attended provided with data and analysis on the diversity of the workforce as a whole, and details of a number of initiatives to support inclusion D. H. Brydon Chairman to 19 Nov 2013 1 1 and diversity.
Further information on diversity is provided in the Sir George Buckley Strategic report on page 70.
Chairman from 19 Nov 2013 3 3 B. F. J. Angelici 3 3 The Committee meets periodically when required.
No-one D. J. Challen 3 3 other than members of the Committee is entitled to be present T. D. Fratto 3 3 at meetings but the Chief Executive is normally invited to attend A. C. Quinn 3 3 and external advisers may be invited by the Committee to attend.
W. C. Seeger 1 1 The Committee has access to such information and advice both Sir Kevin Tebbit 3 3 from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, Mor e information can be found at as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of www.
com external search consultants, where appropriate.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The annual review of the Committees terms of reference was conducted in July 2014.
90 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Remuneration Committee Anne Quinn, CBE Chair of the Remuneration Committee Introduction from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the Companys remuneration framework, giving full consideration to the matters set out in the Code.
The Committee also agrees with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, theFinance Director and senior management.
The Committee sets the remuneration for these individuals within the agreed policy having regard to a number of factors, including their performance, remuneration across the Company and market positioning.
The Committee takes note of the policies and trends in remuneration across the whole Group in relation to all levels of employees.
Further information about the activities and focus of the Remuneration Committee during the year is set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Meeting attendance Remuneration Committee Eligible to attend Attended A. C. Quinn Chair 3 3 D. H. Brydon retired 19 Nov 2013 1 1 Sir George Buckley appointed 1 Aug 2013 3 3 B. F. J. Angelici 3 3 D. J. Challen 3 3 T. D. Fratto 3 3 W. C. Seeger appointed 12 May 2014 1 1 Sir Kevin Tebbit 3 3 More information can be found at www.
com Membership The members of the Committee during the financial year were Ms Quinn Chair of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Mr Brydon, Mr Challen, Ms Fratto and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
Sir George Buckley joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 August 2013 and Mr Seeger joined following his appointment to the Board on 12 May 2014.
Mr Brydon ceased to be a member of the Committee on his retirement from the Board on 19 November 2013.
Responsibilities and activities The Committees responsibilities and main activities are described in the Directors remuneration report on page 100.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference and effectiveness annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference was conducted in July 2014.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 91 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
