G GO OV VER ERN NA AN NCE CE 52 52 ear Shareholders not just to achieve compliance but to enhance the effectiveness of Boards business decision How we fulfil our making processes.
commitment to the UK Corporate Governance Code The Audit and Risk Committee is also leading I am pleased to present this the Groups implementation of the Reports on introduction to our 2014 Payments to Government Regulations 2014, DCorporate Governance Report, effective from 1 January 2015.
The Company which describes how we have already has adequate accounting records in implemented and applied the principles of the place to comply with the reporting requirements.
2012 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout The Committee will oversee the collation and the year.
SOCO is committed to applying the reporting of the required information.
highest standards of corporate governance while RUI fide SOUSA pursuing the creation of value for our shareholders.
Diversity and succession We welcome the continued development of The Board identified gender diversity as a matter CHAIRMAN corporate governance guidance, which continues for increased focus in recent externally facilitated to evolve with the issuance of an updated Code in Board evaluations and continues to focus on September 2014 2014 Code.
succession planning, aimed at improving Board balance including independence.
Since 2012, the Board leadership and stakeholder engagement Board has appointed three directors, two of whom Corporate governance matters have become are women thereby providing the benefit of gender even more important in ensuring appropriate diversity while, in the case of Ms Cynthia Cagle, stewardship in the current volatile oil price additionally increasing Executive representation environment facing the oil and gas sector.
with sector, finance and governance experience.
As Chairman, I remain focused on leading the The appointment of Ms Marianne Daryabegui as Board in the effective delivery of our strategy for a Non-Executive Director, and Mr Rob Gray as the the long term success of the Company.
Key to Senior Independent Director, in 2013 also increased achieving that success is ensuring honest and Non-Executive representation and the proportion ethical conduct as well as protecting the health and of independent Directors, as well as providing safety of our people and the environment in which additional expertise in international finance, we work.
Communicating these values as well as banking, corporate finance and strategic thinking.
our strategy by maintaining an open dialogue with our stakeholders is an important part of my role as Throughout 2014 the Board had 17% female Chairman.
During 2014, opportunities to engage representation, in line with the FTSE 250 average with stakeholders included, in addition to being in 2014.
The Board will continue to manage its available to shareholders and analysts at general composition in future recruiting, acknowledging meetings and results presentations, a number of the government target of 25% women on boards as meetings with institutional shareholders to facilitate well as independence, individual merit, experience a fuller mutual understanding of the Groups and complementary Board skills.
activities and the priorities of those shareholders.
Effectiveness Independence The Directors place considerable emphasis on The Board has determined that it has seven the annual assessment of Board effectiveness and independent Non-Executive Directors out of a total attention to its results.
For a fourth successive year of 12 Directors.
Of those seven Directors three have the Board has utilised an external facilitator to assist served on the Board for over nine years.
The Board in its evaluation, and believes this has contributed believes that the Company continues to benefit to open and frank discussion in the interest of from those long-serving Directors who are uniquely improving the Boards processes, leadership and qualified to lead the Board through their detailed effectiveness.
This year the external facilitator knowledge and proven competencies.
Further, all increased scrutiny in strategy, corporate social six of the independent Non-Executive Directors responsibility, Director independence, recruitment who have served on the SOCO Board alongside and training.
Results of the evaluation reveal a the long-tenured Directors consistently supported Board in agreement over the Companys policies and endorsed each independent Directors and procedures in these areas.
The following pages provide further detail of Audit and Risk Committee how we fulfil our commitment to good corporate The name of this committee was recently governance, and in particular those principles expanded to highlight that its responsibilities related to the role and effectiveness of the Board.
extend beyond audit, and include the important role of reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups overall risk management systems.
Specifically, the Committees terms of reference have been amended to set out its responsibilities in respect of environmental, social and governance risk.
The Committee is, on behalf of the Board, leading a review of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in light of 2014 Code and Rui fide Sousa associated FRC guidance.
The aim of this review is Chairman CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 53 he Company is committed to Director, have been identified on page 55 as CONTENTS the principles contained in the independent Non-Executive Directors, after UK Corporate Governance Code giving full consideration to those circumstances Board of Directors........................... p53 that was issued in 2012 by the that the Code states may appear relevant.
FRC and for which the Board is Notwithstanding this, the Board is satisfied that Chairman and Chief Executive accountable to shareholders.
each of the Companys Directors strictly abides Executive and Non-Executive Directors by their legal and ethical duties owed to the TThe Company has applied Company to act objectively and in the best Senior Independent Director the principles set out in the interests of the Company and its shareholders Company Secretary Code, including both the Main Principles as a whole.
and supporting principles, by complying with Board Balance and Diversity the Code as described within this report, the Chairman and Chief Executive Independence, Tenure and Refreshment Directors Remuneration Report and the Audit The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Succession and Appointments and Risk Committee Report.
Officer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and Reappointment STATEMENT OF agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and the Board Structure and Process.............. p56 COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairman Conflicts of Interest.......................... p56 Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014, is responsible for the leadership of the Board, Accountability and Audit................... p57 the Company has complied with the provisions ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its Directors and Auditors Responsibilities set out in the Code.
role and setting its agenda.
The Chairman leads the constructive challenge of the Executives Going Concern A.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS strategy through open and probing discussion Risk Management and Internal Control and by ensuring the Non-Executive Directors The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial are fully appraised on all the aspects of the Internal Audit Function leadership and develop strategy, values and business.
The Chief Executive is responsible Relations with Shareholders standards while maintaining prudent and for leading the Executives and ensuring their Committees................................... p58 effective controls to assess and manage risk.
effectiveness in the running of the Companys The Board is responsible for ensuring that the business and implementing strategy and policy.
Audit and Risk Committee Company meets its obligations to stakeholders Together the Chairman and Chief Executive are Nominations Committee and has adequate resources to meet its strategic responsible for promoting the highest standards objectives.
The Board of Directors, whose of integrity and probity.
Remuneration Committee names and biographical details are set out on pages 46 and 47, comprises eleven Directors in Executive and Non-Executive Directors addition to the Chairman.
After an assessment Executive Directors are responsible for process set out in more detail below, seven of implementing the Boards agreed strategy these eleven, including the Senior Independent through the development of an appropriate 2014 MEETING ATTENDANCE BY DIRECTORS IN THEIR CAPACITY AS DIRECTORS AUDIT AND RISK REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS ANNUAL BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GENERAL MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING R fide Sousa O Barbaroux R Cagle C Cagle R Cathery E Contini R Gray M Daryabegui A Monteiro J Norton E Story M Watts Denotes scheduled meeting attended Denotes scheduled meeting not attended | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED business plan and for executing actions approved Senior Independent Director by the Board in accordance with relevant The Senior Independent Director provides an authorities.
The division of responsibilities independent leadership role to the Board.
The between the Executive Directors is set by the Senior Independent Director is available to Board.
the Chairman to discuss and develop ideas to maximise the Boards effectiveness, and as an The Executive Directors provide the leadership intermediary to other Directors to ensure each of the senior managers in the day-to-day running individuals views are fully considered in reaching of the Groups business and manage the Groups unitary consensus on Board matters.
The Senior risk programmes including the environmental, Independent Director meets at least annually health, safety and social performance of the with other Non-Executive Directors, without the business.
They must ensure the Company has Chairman present, to facilitate a full and open adequate financial and human resources to meet discussion of matters including appraisal of its objectives.
They are responsible for reporting the Boards effectiveness and the performance the performance and strategic direction of the of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Group to the Board and for providing accurate, Director is made available to communicate with timely and clear information to enable the Board shareholders, as described more fully under to make sound decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors, who undertake a Company Secretary supervisory role, contribute to the development of The Company Secretary, who is appointed by strategic proposals through constructive probing the Board, is responsible for facilitating the based on review and analysis that brings to bear communications and processes of the Board, the particular skills, experience and knowledge both within the Board and its committees and each brings to the Board.
The Non-Executive with management, in compliance with Board Directors review managements performance and procedures and governance guidelines.
The ensure that the systems in place provide adequate Secretary facilitates an induction programme for and effective financial, operational and compliance new Directors on appointment, which is tailored controls and risk management.
They must be to the new Directors individual qualifications satisfied that they have sufficient information and experience.
The Secretary provides advice for the discharge of their duties, which may be and service as may be required in the ongoing achieved through dialogue with management, discharge of the Directors duties, including training where appropriate to update their ensuring that the Company provides the knowledge or skills and consultation with necessary resources for access to independent independent professional advisors as required.
advice and any individual professional training and development needs agreed with each Director.
Additionally, briefing sessions are provided in the course of regular Board meetings and Committee meetings on relevant issues as deemed appropriate, including in relation to corporate governance and social responsibility as well as new and evolving statutory and other compliance matters.
Board Balance and Diversity The Board recognises the need for an appropriate THE DIRECTORS balance of critical attributes, including skills, experience, diversity, independence and knowledge of the Company.
The Company PLACE GREAT has an ongoing process for assessing the specific competencies required on the Board, giving consideration to relevant factors EMPHASIS ON arising from Board and individual Director evaluations, including effectiveness and time commitment.
Accordingly, it continually seeks, THE ANNUAL within an appropriate Board size, to manage a balance between the important elements in its composition, including Executive representation, ASSESSMENT independence, diversity, tenure and refreshment.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity, and OF BOARD gender diversity in particular.
The Board identified gender diversity as a matter for increased focus in recent externally facilitated Board evaluations, EFFECTIVENESS as discussed under the Nominations Committee section on page 58 and in the Succession and Appointment section opposite.
55 Independence, Tenure and Refreshment the Board referred to guidance setting out The Board embraces the underlying principles criteria deemed relevant to determining of the Code provisions regarding tenure and whether a Director continues to exhibit those refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike qualities and behaviours it considers essential an appropriate balance between continuity to be considered independent.
A specific set of of experience and succession.
The findings focused criteria was applied to the assessment of the externally facilitated Board evaluations of long-tenured Directors.
Consideration was conducted annually since 2011 see the also given to the results of individual evaluation Nominations Committee section on page and continued satisfactory performance as well 58 continue to confirm the Boards position as each Directors ability to allocate sufficient concerning independence, which emphasises time to discharge their respective Board and that an individuals independence cannot be Committee responsibilities.
determined arbitrarily on the basis of a set period of time or by a set period of concurrent Following assessment, Mr Rob Gray, tenure with an Executive Director.
Each of Ms Marianne Daryabegui, Ambassador Antnio the Non-Executive Directors tenure has run Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts were determined concurrently with the Chief Executive and to be independent.
After particular scrutiny, Deputy Chief Executive, both of whom have Mr John Norton, Mr Olivier Barbaroux and been in office from the Companys initial listing.
Mr Robert Cathery, each having served on The Company manages a portfolio of long the Board for more than nine years, were also term, complex projects and considers a Nondetermined to be independent.
Each of these Executive Directors most appropriate term of Directors continues to display an appropriate office as generally longer than that envisioned independence from Executive Directors.
The Company benefits They each continue to express their individual from long-serving Directors who are uniquely viewpoints, debate issues and objectively qualified to contribute leadership through scrutinise and challenge management.
Each detailed knowledge of the Companys business seeks clarification and amplification as deemed and with the proven commitment, experience required, including through direct access to the and competence to effectively advise and Groups employees and external advisors.
After oversee the Companys management on behalf careful consideration of the relevant factors, the of the shareholders.
The Company seeks to Board has determined that the tenure of these ensure its Directors are focused on a long term Directors has not affected their independence approach and, therefore, does not impose or their ability to bring judgement to bear in fixed term limits as this would result in a loss the discharge of their duties as Board and of experience and knowledge without assuring Committee members.
The Board considers increased independence.
Accordingly, the that the varied and relevant experience of its Boards assessment of independence is independent Directors combined provide an of prime importance to ensure that retention exceptional balance of skills and experience of experience does not result in a failure required for the business.
to retain a sufficient contingent of independent Directors.
Succession and Appointments Board appointments are made in consideration The independence of each Non-Executive of objective criteria which are developed in Director is assessed at least annually.
the assessment of Board competencies and Independence is additionally identified as a attributes.
Appointments are made through matter for increased scrutiny in the externally a formal process led by the Nominations facilitated Board evaluation, as described Committee, which is set out in more detail in more fully in the Nominations Committee the Nominations Committee section on page section of this report.
Following an appointment, the Company independent a Director must be determined Secretary facilitates a process of induction and to be independent both in character and in assimilation determined appropriate to the judgement and free from any relationships or appointees particular role and experience.
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement including in The Companys programme for succession takes FEMALE BOARD particular those set out in the Code.
Particular full account of the principles for board balance, MEMBERS scrutiny is applied in assessing the continued diversity, independence, tenure and refreshment independence of Directors having served over set out in the sections above.
The Board nine years, with attention to ensuring that continues to focus on succession planning, interactions with Executive Directors have not aimed at improving Board balance in both in any way eroded their independence and that independence and diversity as demonstrated in % their allegiance remains clearly aligned with its recent appointments.
Board refreshment and tenure are has appointed three Directors, two of whom are considered together, and weighed for relevant women thereby providing the benefit of gender benefit in the foreseeable circumstances, given diversity while, in the case of Ms Cynthia Cagle, The level of female further that the Board should not be enlarged to additionally increasing Executive representation representation on the a size that is unwieldy.
Board is in line with the The appointment of Ms Marianne Daryabegui FTSE 250 average In conducting its current assessment of as a Non-Executive Director, and Mr Rob Gray in 2014 Non-Executive Director independence, | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED as the Senior Independent Director, in 2013 also B.
BOARD STRUCTURE AND PROCESS increased Non-Executive representation and the proportion of independent Directors, as well as The Board typically has four scheduled meetings a providing additional expertise in international year and holds additional meetings as necessary.
finance, banking, corporate finance and During 2014, the Board held four scheduled strategic thinking.
meetings as deemed required for the effective discharge of its duties during the period.
There Following these appointments, excluding the was full attendance of Directors at scheduled Chairman, the Board includes two recently Board meetings and full attendance of members appointed independent Non-Executive Directors, at the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and who serve on the Board along with three longNominations Committees as set out in the table tenured Non-Executive Directors who have been on page 53, with the exception of Ms Cynthia determined by the Board to be independent.
Cagle who was unable to attend one Board The Company considers it has achieved an meeting due to a family bereavement.
appropriate balance between the benefits of continuity and refreshment.
The Board determines the Companys business strategy and provides the entrepreneurial Throughout 2014, the Board had 17% female leadership required to ensure its strategic representation, in line with the FTSE 250 average aims can be achieved.
The Board will continue to manage its within a formal framework of decision making composition in future recruiting, acknowledging designed to reserve matters of establishing the the government target of 25% women on boards strategy, business plan and nature or scope of as well as independence, individual merit, the Companys business to the Board.
Under experience and complementary Board skills.
this framework, authority for implementing the strategy and decisions taken by the Board is After assessment of the competencies required, largely delegated to the Executive Directors and the Board is satisfied that the current Nonmanagement within a system of internal controls Executive Directors comprise an appropriate designed to enable the risks of the Group to be balance of knowledge, skills, independence managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has and experience.
The Company has additionally established clear expectations for the Companys sought to maximise the benefits of independence, economic, social and environmental conduct to refreshment and continuity in constituting each promote the highest level of integrity and honesty of its Committees.
The Board will continue to in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
manage its composition in future recruiting, SOCOs Board membership comprises a broad including an appropriate focus on independence range of skills, knowledge and experience, which and diversity in addition to continued attention to is critical to the success of the Company.
The individual merit, experience and complementary Board functions as a unitary body, within which THE DIRECTORS Board skills.
Directors assume certain roles to ensure the Board as a whole fulfils its responsibilities.
These roles, Reappointment including committee memberships, are designed EXPRESS THEIR In accordance with the Code, all Directors are to maximise the effective contribution of each subject to annual election by shareholders.
of the Non-Executive Directors to the Board, its Reappointment of each Director is recommended committees and to the Executive Directors, while INDIVIDUAL in consideration of the results of individual ensuring an appropriate balance is maintained.
evaluation and demonstrated continued The composition of the Board and its committees satisfactory performance, commitment and is in accordance with Code guidelines.
Consideration is given to the broad annually, the Non-Executive Directors meet capabilities represented on the Board and the without the Executives present and, led by the ability of these to meet the unique challenges Senior Independent Director, meet without the DEBATE facing the Company.
Consideration is additionally Chairman present.
Such meetings are conducted given to the balance of the Boards composition in the spirit of good governance and process, and and the need for diversity and refreshment.
A are intended to ensure a forum for open dialogue ISSUES AND Non-Executive Director term exceeding six years without disruption of Board unity.
is subject to particularly rigorous review.
C. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST OBJECTIVELY The process for considering reappointments is described more fully in the Nominations Directors have power to authorise, where Committee section on page 58.
Following appropriate, a situation where a Director SCRUTINISE this process, the Board recommends the has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest reappointment of the retiring Directors, who have that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with each offered themselves for reappointment.
Such authority is in AND CHALLENGE The Chairman, having given consideration to accordance with section 175 of the Companies the results of the Boards formal evaluation Act 2006.
Procedures are in place for ensuring process and other relevant factors, is satisfied that the Boards powers of authorisation are MANAGEMENT that the Non-Executive Directors continue to operated effectively.
Directors are required to demonstrate the commitment level appropriate notify the Company of any conflicts of interest and to be effective in fulfilment of the or potential conflicts of interest that may responsibilities of the role.
arise, before they arise either in relation to the Director concerned or their connected persons.
57 The decision to authorise each situation C. 2 of the Code, by establishing a continuous is considered separately on its particular process, which has been in place throughout facts.
Only Directors who have no interest the year to the date of this report and which is THE NONin the matter are able to take the relevant in accordance with revised guidance on internal decision and must act in a way they consider, control published by the Financial Reporting in good faith, will be most likely to promote Council in 2005 the Turnbull Guidance, for EXECUTIVES the Companys success.
The Directors will identifying, evaluating and managing the impose such limits or conditions as they deem significant risks the Group faces.
appropriate when giving authorisation or when COMPRISE AN an actual conflict arises.
These may include The Board regularly reviews the process, which provisions relating to confidential information, is constantly evolving to meet the demands of a attendance at Board meetings and availability dynamic environment.
APPROPRIATE of Board papers, along with other measures as determined appropriate.
The Board reviews its In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, conflict authorisations at least annually.
the effectiveness of the Groups system of BALANCE OF internal control, including financial, operational D. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT and compliance controls and risk management, including management of ESG risks, is regularly KNOWLEDGE, Directors and Auditors Responsibilities reviewed by the Directors.
The review is based The responsibilities of the Directors and auditors principally on discussions with management and are set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on reviewing reports provided by management INDEPENDENCE, on pages 48 to 51 and in the Independent to consider whether significant risks are Auditors Report on pages 74 to 76. identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, but also may include independent interaction SKILLS AND Going Concern with employees or third parties.
Particular The Groups Financial Statements have been scrutiny is applied to the review of controls prepared on a going concern basis as described applicable to new or evolving areas of risks as EXPERIENCE in the Financial Review on page 28 and the they are identified.
Annual Report of the Directors on page 50.
The Board considers whether appropriate Risk Management and Internal Control actions are taken promptly to correct any The Directors are responsible for establishing, significant weaknesses identified, and if more maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness extensive monitoring may be required.
The of a sound system of internal control which Board confirms that such actions as deemed is designed to provide reasonable assurance necessary and appropriate have been or are regarding the reliability of financial information being taken to remedy any significant failings or and to safeguard the shareholders investment weaknesses identified in its review.
The Board and the assets of the Company and Group.
seeks to ensure that internal control and risk Relations with Shareholders Given the inherent limitations in any system management processes, including dealing The Executive Directors are responsible for of internal control, even a sound system can with any identified areas of improvement, are ensuring effective communication is maintained only provide reasonable assurance, and not embedded within the business.
with key stakeholders and partners, including absolute assurance, that the Company will not establishing an appropriate level of contact with be hindered in achieving its business objectives The Board has performed a specific assessment major shareholders and ensuring that their views or be protected against material misstatement for the purpose of this Annual Report and are communicated to the Board.
The Board has put in place formally Accounts, which considers all significant aspects Executive Directors are responsible for taking defined lines of responsibility and delegation of internal control arising during the period, and sufficient steps to understand these views, of authority and has delegated to executive is satisfied with the process employed and the including any issues or concerns.
management the implementation of material results thereof.
The Audit and Risk Committee internal control systems.
Documented policies spearheads the Board in discharging its review SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue and procedures are in place for key systems and responsibilities.
Audit and Risk Committee with shareholders.
The Company maintains a processes and the authority of the Directors is membership comprises highly experienced website wherein important information can be required for key matters.
professionals with complementary areas of posted and disseminated promptly to a wide expertise in the oil and gas sector and each audience and through which shareholders A comprehensive budgeting process is in place Committee member makes an important can electronically interface with executive for all items of expenditure and an annual contribution to the assurance process.
At a minimum, the Company budget is approved by the Board.
Actual results member undertakes specific review processes in provides three personal communication forums are reported against budget on a regular basis.
their areas of financial and audit, technical and annually the AGM, the presentation of Annual Revised forecasts for the year and longer term operating, diplomatic and commercial expertise Results and the presentation of Half Year Results financial projections are produced regularly and reports the results of their work to the full whereby shareholders can directly interface throughout the year.
Committee and to the Board.
Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders at The Board has the primary responsibility for Internal Audit Function least 20 working days prior to the meeting, and identifying the major business risks facing Although the Company does not currently have resolutions are proposed for each substantially the Company and Group and developing a separate internal audit function, the Directors separate issue.
The result of proxy voting is appropriate policies to manage those risks.
review at least annually the need to establish announced after votes are taken on a show of The risk management approach is used to such a function.
The Companys current staff hands.
Directors including the Chairmen of the focus attention on the Groups most significant size limits the ability to form an effective internal Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations areas of risk and to determine key control audit function and, accordingly, the Company Committees are available to answer shareholder objectives.
The Board has applied Principle outsources its internal audit requirements.
questions and to respond to any specific queries.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Company has assigned a senior executive Dr Mike Watts.
Dr Watts, with extensive Officer, serves as a Committee member along the responsibility for investor relations and has exploration and technical expertise in the sector, with independent Non-Executive Directors employed an outside agency, both to provide is a strong leader for the Committees oversight Dr Mike Watts, Ambassador Antnio Monteiro assistance in the dissemination of information of the Groups business risks, and in particular and Ms Marianne Daryabegui.
In addition, to shareholders and the general public and to those which could have a significant impact Mr John Norton, Mr Olivier Barbaroux and solicit actively feedback as to the effectiveness of on the Financial Statements.
The Committee Mr Robert Cathery act as Advisors to the such efforts.
Additionally, the Company maintains additionally comprises Mr Rob Gray, who is the Nominations Committee.
an ongoing, active dialogue with institutional Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, shareholders, specifically and proactively seeking and independent Non-Executive Directors Ms The Committee meets at least once a year.
opportunities for face-to-face meetings at Marianne Daryabegui and Ambassador Antnio Its primary responsibilities include making least twice a year, coincident with half-year and Monteiro.
The qualifications of each of the recommendations to the Board regarding the full-year results, between fund managers and members are set out on page 47.
The Board is appointment and reappointment of Directors Company executive management.
In 2014, the satisfied that the collective experience of the and Committee memberships.
It is responsible Company has continued to increase its dialogue members provides relevant financial and risk for review and recommendations regarding with shareholders and other stakeholders management experience and the complement overall Board structure and composition, regarding its corporate and social responsibility of skills required for the effective discharge of succession planning and establishing an policies and procedures.
Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr John ongoing process for evaluating the Board and Norton act as Advisors to the Committee.
Further details of the discharge Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled Norton has extensive experience as a Chartered of these responsibilities are set out below in Board meetings and public relations and Accountant in the oil and gas sector, and is addition to sections above regarding in particular analysts reports are distributed to the full Board.
supremely qualified to advise the Committee board balance, independence, diversity, Non-Executive Directors are made available to in the oversight of the external audit.
communicate with SOCOs major institutional Mr Norton is a long-standing Director, his shareholders, and particularly to be responsive professional experience has fully prepared him The Committee held two meetings in 2014 when additional communication from the for maintaining independence and objectivity in and has conducted one meeting to date in Chairman, Senior Independent Director or other this circumstance and the Board is completely 2015.
Other Non-Executive Directors were in Non-Executive Directors has been requested.
The satisfied that he has demonstrated continued attendance at a portion of these meetings by Chairman regularly interfaces with other principal independence in performing his role.
Certain Committee functions were shareholders.
The Board considers whether delegated to a subcommittee, which acted on additional communication may be appropriate The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least behalf of the Committee after an appropriate or desirable.
In particular, the delegated role of three times a year.
The Executive Directors, the dialogue among Committee members to the Senior Independent Director includes being Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer ensure a consensus of views.
A number of available to shareholders if they have concerns and a representative of the external auditors other informal meetings and communications which cannot be fully or appropriately addressed are normally invited to attend meetings.
Other took place between the Chairman, various by the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Directors are invited to attend as determined Committee and Board members and the appropriate or beneficial.
At least once a year Companys executives and employees.
E. COMMITTEES the Committee meets with the external auditors Additionally, the Chairman led discussions of without executive Board members present.
certain Committee matters in view of the full The Board has established three Committees, Board to expedite unitary decision making.
as described below, each having formal TOR The Committee held three meetings in 2014 and approved by the Board which set out its has conducted one meeting to date in 2015, all of During the year the Committee reviewed Board delegated role and authority.
The TORs, which were attended by executive management structure, size and composition, including a which are available on the Companys website and external auditors.
A private session, without profile of the skills, knowledge, experience and www.
com, are set in the Executives present, was held during two of diversity represented on the Board, which was consideration of the provisions of the Code and these meetings.
Additionally, a number of other utilised to facilitate the Boards review of Director are reviewed from time to time in the context of informal meetings and communications took independence, including tenure in particular.
Committee memberships are place between the Chairman, various Committee The Committee made recommendations to the reviewed in order to ensure optimum utilisation members, external auditors and the Companys Board concerning plans for succession reflecting of competencies on the Board while maintaining executives and employees.
the need for induction and assimilation of recent a balance between the benefits of refreshment appointments and continued refreshment while and continuity.
Each Directors specific Committee As part of the externally facilitated Board Evaluation taking into account the skills, experience and memberships, including as Chairmen, are set process described on page 59, the Committee diversity needed on the Board to best meet the out on pages 46 to 47.
Attendance at scheduled considered its performance and continued specific challenges and opportunities facing committee meetings by all members serving effectiveness.
The Committee performed a review the Company.
The results of these reviews were during the period is set out in the table on page of its TOR as part of this process which were in turn utilised in developing the Committees 53.
While only Committee members are entitled amended in the year to set out its responsibilities recommendations regarding potential Board to attend meetings and vote, Directors in advisory in respect of environmental, social and governance appointments as well as for continuation in office roles are generally invited to attend and other risk matters.
and reappointment of retiring Directors.
Directors may be invited to attend from time to time to ensure the Committees responsibilities A separate Report of the Audit and Risk After giving consideration to Board structure and are undertaken with access to the Boards full Committee is set out on pages 60 to 62 and composition, evaluations, time commitments, breadth of knowledge and experience.
The provides details of the role and activities of length of service, individual contributions, Company Secretary ensures that the Company the Committee and its relationship with the refreshment and the requirements of the Board, additionally provides such resources as the external auditors.
the Committee recommended that each of the Committees require in the discharge of retiring Directors be proposed for reappointment their duties.
Nominations Committee by the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Audit and Risk Committee Rui fide Sousa, the Non-Executive Chairman of Process for Board Appointments The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by the Company.
Mr Ed Story, the Chief Executive The Board has a policy in place for succession 59 The process was undertaken to enhance the quality of the Board and to improve its THE BOARD HAS procedures through identifying and addressing strengths and weaknesses.
The Chairman led discussions with the Committee and the full THE PRIMARY Board regarding the results, which included a commitment by the Board to continue its primary focus on corporate strategy and RESPONSIBILITY FOR corporate social responsibility.
The Board confirmed its commitment to a rigorous process for the assessment of independence IDENTIFYING THE and remains satisfied that it has led to an appropriate designation of independent Directors.
The Board was satisfied with the MAJOR BUSINESS benefits of refreshment provided through the measured achievement of its objectives to increase Board balance in both independence RISKS FACING THE and diversity in late 2013, and maintains a focus on succession planning.
Management committed to continue to develop its reporting COMPANY AND GROUP to the Board on governance and corporate responsibility programmes, including detailed and regular reporting to the Board on the AND DEVELOPING Companys extensive stakeholder engagement.
Additionally, the evaluation results were utilised to assess Director effectiveness, time APPROPRIATE commitments of Non-Executive Directors and training and development needs of each Director, which were reviewed by the Chairman.
POLICIES TO MANAGE The Committee performed a review of its TOR as part of this process.
THOSE RISKS Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and additionally comprises Mr Rob Gray, who is the Senior Independent Director, and independent NonExecutive Directors Ms Marianne Daryabegui and Dr Mike Watts.
In addition Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Robert Cathery act as Advisors.
The qualifications of each of the members are set out on page 47. planning, which addresses its approach to merit set against objective criteria and with due The Committee held two meetings in 2014 maintaining a balanced Board, including the regard for the benefits of diversity, would be and has held one meeting to date in 2015. benefits of diversity.
The Committee has a submitted for full Board approval.
The Company The Committee additionally held informal process in place for identifying and nominating Secretary facilitates induction upon appointment.
meetings with management and advisors, in candidates to fill vacancies which may arise particular regarding compliance with the revised from time to time, including ensuring Board Board Evaluation Accounting Regulations of the Companies membership is sufficiently refreshed and retains Since 2011, the Committees annual Board Act 2006 relating to the requirements for the an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
evaluations have been externally facilitated.
contents of the Directors Remuneration Report, The Committee develops an appropriate During 2014, the Committee led the Board and implementation of the remuneration policies description of the role, estimated time in evaluating its own performance and that approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
commitment and the capabilities and attributes of its Committees and individual Directors which would complement the composition of externally facilitated in confidence by Nautilus As part of the externally facilitated Board the Board and its Committees.
The Companys Management Limited, an independent firm that Evaluation process described above, the succession planning has been aimed at has provided secretariat and governance advice Committee considered its performance and increasing Board balance in both independence to the Company.
The evaluation entailed both continued effectiveness.
The Committee and diversity as a priority in recent and future questionnaires and interviews.
The external performed a review of its TOR as part recruitment.
Directors are encouraged to be facilitator sought evaluation of the Board and its of this process.
attentive to identifying candidates who meet effectiveness as a whole, but with an emphasis one or both of these objectives.
The Committee on the critical issues the Board will face in the The Committee is responsible for setting the would expect to utilise an independent next three to five years and with increased remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive external advisor to facilitate any search.
In such scrutiny in areas including strategy, corporate Directors, and is responsible for appointing circumstances, a diverse list of candidates social responsibility, Director independence, any consultants it may utilise in carrying out its would be compiled and a rigorous review recruitment and training.
Details of the Committees activities, process undertaken, involving other Board asked to comment on the operation and policies and objectives are set out in the members as deemed appropriate.
Committee performance of the Audit and Risk, Nominations Directors Remuneration Report on recommendations, which are to be made on and Remuneration Committees.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
