G GO OV VER ERN NA AN NCE CE 60 60 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE earlier than the date of rotation of the incumbent AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE senior statutory auditor, after the 31 December 2015 year end.
The Audit and Risk Committees primary responsibilities include reviewing the effectiveness There are no contractual obligations which restrict of the Companys and the Groups systems of the Committees choice of external auditor.
The internal control, risk management, overseeing Committee also considered the likelihood of a the selection of and relationship with external withdrawal of the auditor from the market and auditors and the review and monitoring of the noted that there are no contractual obligations to integrity of Financial Statements.
The Committee restrict the choice of external auditors.
The Board is responsible for review of the Groups major concurred with the Committees recommendation financial, operational and corporate responsibility for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the risk management processes, including ESG Companys auditors for 2015, which will be MIKE WATTS risk.
The effectiveness of these processes is proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
monitored on a continuous basis and a formal AUDIT AND RISK assessment is conducted at least annually.
The External Auditors Non-Audit Services COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Committee has been delegated the responsibility The external auditors are appointed primarily to for advising the full Board on compliance with carry out the statutory audit and their continued the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, independence and objectivity is fundamental including its risk management and internal to that role.
In view of their knowledge of the control requirements, as well as compliance with business, there may be occasions when the evolving guidance on corporate governance external auditors are best placed to undertake issues generally.
Additionally, the Committee other services on behalf of the Group.
The reports to the Board on whether, taken as a Audit and Risk Committee has a policy which whole, the annual report and accounts are fair, sets out those non-audit services which the balanced and understandable and provide external auditors may provide and those information necessary for shareholders to assess which are prohibited.
Within that policy, any the Companys performance, business model and non-audit service must be approved by the strategy.
The Committees activities undertaken in Committee.
Before approving a non-audit service, the discharge of its duties are regularly reported consideration is given to whether the nature of to the Board.
the service, materiality of the fees, or the level of reliance to be placed on it by SOCO would create, MATTERS REPORTED TO THE BOARD or appear to create, a threat to independence.
If it is determined that such a threat might arise, External Auditors Assurance Services approval will not be granted unless the Audit The Committee reviewed and approved the and Risk Committee is satisfied that appropriate terms and scope of the audit engagement, the safeguards are applied to ensure independence audit plan and the results of the audit with the and objectivity are not impaired.
The auditor is external auditors, including the scope of services prohibited from providing any services which associated with audit-related regulatory reporting result in certain circumstances that have been services.
An assessment of the effectiveness of deemed to present such a threat, including the audit process was made, giving consideration auditing their own work, taking management to reports from the auditors on their internal decisions for the Group or creating either a quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor mutuality or conflict of interest.
The Company independence and objectivity were assessed, has taken steps to develop resources and giving consideration to the auditors confirmation relationships in order to establish availability of that their independence is not impaired, the alternate advisors for financial and other matters.
overall extent of non-audit services provided by Additionally, the Committee closely monitors the the external auditors as described below and terms on which the Remuneration Committee, the past service of the auditors who were first with approval of the Audit and Risk Committee, appointed, following a tendering process, in 2002. has independently appointed the Companys Fees payable to the auditors where reviewed and auditors as advisors.
The advisors terms of approved by the Committee and are set out in reference restrict the provision of certain services Note 9 to the Financial Statements.
in order to maintain auditor independence and the scope and value of services to the Group is The Code, the Competition and Markets Authority under continuous review.
and the European Commission are now aligned in their requirements regarding external audit The Committee approved the non-audit services tendering and rotation, wherein, for FTSE 350 provided by the external auditors in 2014, having companies, a competitive tender process is concluded such services were compatible with required at least once every ten years.
Under auditor independence and were consistent transitional arrangements, SOCO will be required with relevant ethical guidance.
Details of to conduct a competitive tender process no later non-audit services are set out in Note 9 to than for the 2023 year end audit.
The Committee the Financial Statements.
will consider the appropriate timeframe within which to carry out such a tender process in light of the regulatory requirements as well as auditor performance and independence.
The Committee does not currently anticipate that this will be REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE 61 Risk Assessment Significant Issues Related to the The Committee undertook a detailed risk 2014 Financial Statements assessment whereby it reviewed existing risks For the year ended 31 December 2014 the and identified new risks as appropriate.
The Audit and Risk Committee identified the likelihood and significance of each risk was significant issues that should be considered considered along with associated mitigating in relation to the Financial Statements, being factors and was reported to the Board.
Any new areas which may be subject to heightened risks or changes to existing risks were monitored risk of material misstatement.
throughout the year and considered at each Audit and Risk Committee meeting.
As part Impairment of Exploration of this process, the Committee maintains a and Evaluation Assets detailed bribery risk assessment and mitigation The Committee considered the Groups procedure designed to ensure that the intangible exploration and evaluation assets Company has appropriate procedures in place individually for any indicators of impairment to eliminate bribery and that all employees, including those indicators set out in IFRS 6 agents and other associated persons are Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral made fully aware of the Groups policies and Resources.
During 2014, the Groups intangible procedures.
The Committee has reviewed and exploration and evaluation assets comprised its is satisfied with the Companys arrangements Africa licences as described in the Review for whistleblowing, whereby staff may raise of Operations on pages 15 to 23. concerns regarding improprieties in confidence, which would be addressed with appropriate After providing the DRC Government with follow-up action.
To facilitate such reporting the interpretation of the seismic results from Block Company maintains an Ethics Hotline Service V, SOCO will have no further involvement in using an independent, confidential telephone the Block.
Although minimal expenditure is service that can be used by staff members planned in 2015 to fulfill obligations to the and other stakeholders to report a suspected DRC Government, no substantive expenditure breach of SOCOs Code of Business Conduct is planned.
Further, in light of the current and Ethics.
The Committee reviews these macro-environment, the likelihood that there arrangements annually.
will be any measurable recoverable amount associated with Block V expenditure is remote.
Internal Controls and As a result, the capitalised inception to date Risk Management Systems costs incurred have been expensed through On behalf of the Board, the Committee has the income statement in 2014 see Note 14 to reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys the Financial Statements.
Costs expected to internal controls and risk management systems, be incurred during 2015 have been accrued, in including consideration of an internal audit accordance with IAS 37, in 2014.
This treatment function, which is more fully described in the was discussed and agreed by the Committee Risk Management and Internal Control section and the auditors.
of the Corporate Governance Report on page 57.
The Committee has reviewed and The Committee also discussed the Nanga II A approved the related compliance statements Block, onshore Congo Brazzaville.
The Committee has additionally the Company is pursuing negotiations with the reviewed and approved the statements objective of securing a PSC, following the expiry regarding compliance with the Code.
The of the Prospection Authorisation Permit, costs Committee reviewed and discussed with incurred to date on this new venture have been management and the auditors the Companys expensed in accordance with IFRS 6.
In addition, relevant financial information prior to a number of other costs associated with recommendation for Board approval.
searching for new acreage were written off in This included, in particular, the financial accordance with the Groups accounting policy statements and other material information on oil and gas exploration and evaluation see presented in the annual and half year reports.
Notes 2h and 14 to the Financial Statements.
The Committee considered the significant financial reporting issues, accounting policies The Groups remaining exploration and and judgements impacting the Financial evaluation properties that continue to be Statements, and the clarity of disclosures.
classified as intangible assets on the balance The Committee conducted a review of its sheet as at 31 December 2014 comprise its TOR for continued appropriateness.
Marine XI, MPS and Cabinda licences, all of which have substantial expenditure planned.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Committee discussed the Groups The Committee advised the Board whether the remaining exploration and evaluation assets annual report and accounts taken as a whole is with both management and the auditors and fair, balanced and understandable and provides concur with the treatment adopted.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors have confirmed this in their Responsibility Statement set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on page 51.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE 62 REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Oil and Gas Reserves Reserves estimates are inherently uncertain, The Groups estimates of oil and gas reserves especially in the early stages of a fields life, and have a significant impact on the Financial are routinely revised over the producing lives of Statements, in particular in relation to DD&A and oil and gas fields as new information becomes impairment.
Oil and gas reserves, as discussed available and as economic conditions evolve.
The in the Risk Management Report, are calculated Committee acknowledges that such revisions using standard evaluation techniques which have may impact the Groups future financial position inherent uncertainties in their application.
and results, in particular, in relation to DD&A and impairment testing of oil and gas property plant The Committee has discussed with management and equipment see below.
and the auditors the results to date of third party ERCE reserve assessments which, during 2014 Impairment of Producing Assets Classified as and to date in 2015, specifically focused on the Property, Plant and Equipment TGT field, and which are discussed further in The Committee considered the Groups oil and the Review of Operations on pages 15 to 23. gas producing assets that are classified as PP&E These assessments have been scrutinised by on the balance sheet individually for impairment management, taking into account the current with reference to indicators in IAS 36 Impairment stage of the fields development, to satisfy of Assets.
During 2014, the Groups PP&E oil and itself that reserve estimates are appropriate, gas assets comprised its two Vietnam licences, that the related DD&A calculations are correct the ongoing activities of which are described and that appropriate impairment testing has in the Review of Operations on pages 15 to 23. been conducted see below.
Management As discussed above, under Oil and Gas Reserves, also reviewed its estimate of future costs the Committee concurred with managements including decommissioning costs associated assessment to reduce proved and probable with producing the reserves.
Consequently, a reserves associated with both producing fields.
substantial amount of TGT 2P reserves has been Consequently, and having given consideration to re-classified into 2C Contingent Resources, the current oil price environment, management reflecting the fact that currently only the original determined that there were indicators of FDP and H5 FDP wells are being drilled and that, impairment.
Both assets were thoroughly tested at this stage, there is no agreement among the through economic modelling using a range of JOC partners on the scope of development and assumptions.
The TGT asset was determined to level of investment going forward.
Therefore, have a fair value in excess of its book carrying management believe that the prudent approach value, however the CNV asset fair value was found to 2P reserve booking against this background, to be less than its carrying value.
Management taking into account the level of reservoir concluded, and the Committee agreed, that complexity and uncertainty, is to include only CNV should be impaired to its fair value as at 31 the P50 recoverable volumes based on existing December 2014.
DD&A on both assets will reflect and likely near term wells, and optimal field the revised production and expenditure profiles management.
Additionally, a portion of the 2P from 2015.
The Committee has discussed the reserves has been recognised as 3C Contingent Groups PP&E assets and associated impairment Resources reflecting a degree of geological testing with both management and the auditors uncertainty around the range of oil-in-place and concur with the treatment adopted, further estimates and partner alignment on the level of details of which can be found in Note 15 to the future capital investment in the field.
Similarly, management have also discussed with the Committee and the auditors the results to date of reserves assessments, conducted in collaboration with the JOC, on the CNV field where previous commercial reserve estimates were largely predicated on the successful drilling of the CNV-7P well, which was targeting the previously untapped south west area of the field and material increase in production.
Disappointingly, due to unexpected geological issues the well failed to reach the target reservoir despite several attempts to side-track.
Thus, we have significantly reduced our estimates of the 2P reserves for CNV and re-classified undrilled wells including the CNV-7P well into Contingent Resources.
