41 JOINT OPERATING COMPANIES A LONG STANDING AND TRUSTING RELATIONSHIP e are fortunate in that we have been Wworking alongside our partners for a number of years and have a long standing TONY ROCHE and trusting relationship.
Our HSES policies and HLHVJOC DEPUTY related requests, from GENERAL MANAGER SOCO and its partners, are considered and taken seriously, and as a result, we have very safe and environmentally efficient operations at our two offshore oilfields.
Last year at a neighbouring oilfield, sadly there was a fatality.
Although unrelated to the JOC or SOCO, this brought into stark focus for us all our impeccable safety track record and its importance.
Extra checks were put in place to mitigate any potential issues as part of the lessons learnt from that accident.
For the operations here we recorded IN VIETNAM SOCO a total of 2.8 million man-hours of IS A JOC PARTNER IN safely working without any lost TWO ASSETS THE TGT hours over all of the sites including AND CNV FIELDS THAT the JOC office, the supply base WHEN COMBINED at Vung Tau, the four drilling rigs, REPRESENT ONE OF the onshore fabrication sites, the THE LARGEST NATIONAL offshore production facilities as PRODUCERS OF OIL well as the offshore installation and modification units.
All incidents are More on p8 investigated and followed up and preventative actions are always taken.
The safety of our people is paramount.
There are other aspects that are also important for us in contributing to the imprint that we leave.
Our early involvement in the Vietnamese projects started in 1999 and over the years we have invested in a wide range of community projects from public health, education, environmental, public facility, and community relationsbased programmes.
In all of these, our involvement has been not simply to provide investment funds or donations, but to actively work with the community and our partners: to build trust and ensure that both the communitys needs and those of SOCO and the JOC partners are considered when projects are planned.
Every year we ensure that our voluntary social contributions go to those projects that we believe will address the greatest needs as well as bring the most long term benefit.
For example, we assisted the Red Cross in drilling and building 15 clean water wells for the poorest families in the Soc Trang Province.
We provided medical equipment and supplies to the orphanage in Ho Chi Minh City and participated in the annual tree planting event, planting 235 trees on Environment Day in Ho Chi Minh City.
Further afield and falling within our contractual investments outlined as part of the Petroleum Contract we built a hard-top road in rural Tra Vinh Province to alleviate the erosion problems posed by the floods during the rainy season.
This was an incredibly impactful project for us to be involved in as the newly built road will further promote local economic development, bringing with it long term social benefits to the public including transport, education and welfare.
Larger scale contractual social projects for us last year included the construction of additional food, medical and classroom facilities at nursery schools in the Vinh Phuc and Thai Binh provinces.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
