Strategic Report Strategic Report Resources Review Relationships Our employees are critical to achieving our strategic priorities.
To realise our full potential, however, we also depend on a wider set of stakeholders.
Our stakeholders include the patients and We pursue strategically aligned valueCommunity investment physicians for whom we provide medicines enhancing business development Our global community investment strategy for some of the worlds most serious opportunities and focus on focuses on healthcare in the community diseases and the universities and institutes and science education.
We are committed that collaborate with our scientists.
They research transactions increasing to operating responsibly, supporting our also include governments, regulators, early-stage research transactions and community and maximising the benefit payers, suppliers and commercial entities.
academic alliances of our investment for all stakeholders.
peer collaborations exploring The Sales and Marketing section from page value-creating peer collaborations In 2014, we spent approximately 59 outlines our focus on customers and in-licensing and bolt-on acquisitions $880 million 2013: $1.12 billion on communicating effectively with them.
The pursuing partnering, in-licensing and community investment sponsorships, Research and Development section from bolt-on acquisitions to strengthen our partnerships and charitable donations, page 52 describes how we work with therapy area portfolios.
including through our product donation and payers from an early stage in a medicines patient assistance programmes.
Through life-cycle to demonstrate its full value.
Over the past three years we have our three patient assistance programmes completed more than 180 major or in the US, which make our medicines In Manufacturing and Supply from page 56, strategically important business available free of charge to eligible patients we examine our relationships with suppliers development transactions, including and healthcare facilities, we donated and our commitment to working only with some 70 in 2014.
Of these transactions, products valued at an average wholesale those that embrace standards of ethical 12 were related to clinical stage assets price of more than $800 million 2013: behaviour consistent with our own.
This or programmes, 47 to pre-clinical assets $1.05 billion.
We also donated products commitment extends to joint venture, or programmes and 11 to PHC and worth over $13 million, valued at an co-promotion partners and research and biomarkers.
Twenty one transactions average wholesale price, to the charitable licensing partners.
helped expand our biologics capabilities.
Acquisitions included Definiens and the Partnering rights to Almiralls respiratory franchise, Young Health Programme As outlined in Strategic priorities as well as its subsidiary focused on the We continued to develop the three strands from page 18, business development, development of innovative proprietary of our Young Health Programme YHP : specifically partnering, is an important devices.
We completed the acquisition advocacy: research: and on-the-ground pillar that supplements and strengthens of BMSs share of the diabetes alliance programmes focused on evidence our pipeline and our efforts to achieve in February 2014. generation with an increased 2014 focus scientific leadership.
As noted in Research on the prevention of non-communicable and Development from page 52, we strive For more information on our partnering diseases NCDs and associated adolescent to access leading science from within activity in 2014, please see Research and risk behaviours.
With over 667,000 young and outside our laboratories.
Development from page 52, Therapy people in communities across five Area Review from page 32, and Note 24 continents directly reached with the skills We partner with others around the to the Financial Statements from page 170. and information they need to improve their world, including academia, governments, health, we have therefore well exceeded industry, scientific organisations and patient our Clinton Global Initiative Commitment to groups to access the best science to Action of reaching 250,000 young people stimulate innovation and accelerate the directly by the end of 2015.
Over 9,500 of delivery of new medicines to target unmet these young people have been trained to medical need.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 65 Strategic Report Resources Review Relationships continued share this health information with their of Adolescent Health in December 2014. five percent 59 of Career Academies now peers and the community, and over 10,000 To support progress in the adolescent NCD have a STEM theme, exceeding the target frontline health providers have been trained prevention agenda, we commissioned the of 33% by the 2014 2015 academic year.
See the table below Population Reference Bureau to produce In 2014, 812 year one and two students for programme details.
several reports, including one on the participated in STEM, of which 41% of the prevalence of NCD risk behaviours among 441 students expected to graduate in To help place the prevention of adolescent young people in Africa publication expected 2015 are female.
This supports Career NCD-related risk behaviours on the global early 2015.
Academies UKs commitment to increase and local policy agenda, we engaged in female participation in STEM education various activities, including participation in STEM Career Academies and careers.
the United Nations High-level Review on We support science education in the NCDs and the development of an NCDs community in various ways.
For example, Disaster relief chapter for the UNICEF Facts for Life book.
in 2014, we extended for three years our The British Red Cross continues to act Also in 2014, the Wellbeing of Adolescents partnership with the educational charity as our global disaster relief partner, with in Vulnerable Environments study, Career Academies UK started in 2011 the majority of our disaster relief donations undertaken by Johns Hopkins Bloomberg to support increased participation by 16 channelled through it.
In addition to the School of Public Health as part of YHP, to 19 year-olds in science, technology, charitable donations referenced in was completed.
Headline findings were engineering and maths STEM subjects.
Community investment above, in presented at a YHP side meeting to the Career Academies UK links schools and September 2014 we donated 50,000 via United Nations General Assembly in colleges with employers through classes, the British Red Cross to the Gaza Israel September 2014, and study papers were mentoring, workplace visits and internships Appeal and 250,000 to the Ebola Appeal.
published in a special edition of the Journal to help prepare adolescents for work.
Thirty Further information on our approach to responsible business can be found in Responsible Business from page 227 and on our website, www.
Young Health Programme 2014 country programmes Country Focus Australia Improving driver licensing provision and knowledge of road safety Brazil, India, Zambia Hygiene, infection, sexual reproductive health and broader health issues Canada, South Korea, Improving the emotional and mental wellbeing of vulnerable Portugal, Sweden adolescents China Educating migrant youths from rural areas about water and air pollution Denmark Physical activities among socially vulnerable young people Germany, Health issues of homeless adolescents Netherlands, UK Norway Health of young people from immigrant families Romania Cardiovascular risk prevention through exercise clubs for young people Russia Health of adolescent orphans, focused on sport and smoking Spain Sexual education, healthy eating habits and drug addiction prevention Turkey Improving communication and social skills among adolescents to help them avoid violence US Helping adolescents live healthier lives by focusing on their strengths and assets www.
com 66 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Case study Healthy Heart Africa In October 2014, we launched the Healthy Heart Africa HHA programme in Nairobi, Kenya.
HHA is an innovative and sustainable programme that aims to improve the lives of hypertensive patients across Africa through increased screening, diagnosis, treatment and awareness of hypertensive risk factors and lifestyle modifications.
The initial demonstration programme will be the largest African programme to address hypertension.
Consistent with the WHOs 25 by 2025 global monitoring framework for preventing and controlling NCDs, HHAs goal is to reach 10 million hypertensive patients across sub-Saharan Africa by 2025 one-quarter of WHOs hypertension target for Africa.
To design and develop the programme, we worked closely with governments, international organisations, health experts and non-governmental and community-based organisations.
Some of these organisations, including AMPATH The Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare : AMREF Kenya, Africas largest international health non-governmental organisation: CHAK Christian Health Association of Kenya, a leading national faith-based organisation: Jhpiego, a non-profit health organisation affiliated with The Johns Hopkins University: and Population Services Kenya, are now helping to implement HHA.
We aim to increase the number of HHA-participating organisations and partners to support implementation across Kenya and Africa.
HHAs independent monitoring and evaluation partner, Abt Associates, will support and monitor the programmes progress.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 67
