Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Dear shareholder In this Report, we describe the work of the Audit Committee during the year and highlight the significant issues considered.
In 2014, our priorities were, once again, sound financial reporting and compliance with our Code of Conduct, which are considered below.
The principal duties of the Audit Committee considered and altered the scope of its AstraZenecas performance and approach are to provide assurance to the Board, external audit in 2014 to match the changing to operating ethically, within the law and in as part of the Boards stewardship and dynamics of the Group.
Accounting for accordance with our global Code of protection of our shareholders interests, on the business combinations consummated Conduct in China.
During the course of the in the year was an area of focus, principally year, we received and discussed quarterly the integrity of our financial reporting our acquisition of BMSs interest in the reports from the Chief Compliance Officer and internal controls over financial matters diabetes alliance and the strategic on compliance in all areas of our business.
the effectiveness of our internal controls transaction with Almirall.
over non-financial matters, and Engagement with senior leaders compliance with laws and our Code The Company is involved with IP litigation, During 2014, the Committee took the of Conduct which is a feature of the pharmaceutical opportunity to extend its interactions with the quality of the Companys relationship industry, and a number of government members of management below the SET.
with its external auditor investigations, and is a defendant in certain In particular, it held meetings with the senior the role, resources and effectiveness of product liability and anti-trust actions.
The leadership teams of Internal Audit Services the Companys internal audit function Audit Committee receives a regular update IA, IS IT and Finance.
It takes a special the effectiveness of the Companys risk from the General Counsel on the status of interest in the strength and depth of the management framework.
those litigation matters that might result in finance organisation and talent development fines or damages against the Group to within that function.
Financial reporting assess whether provisions should be taken Robust financial reporting is underpinned by and, if so, when and for what amounts.
We value dialogue with our shareholders well-designed internal controls, appropriate and welcome your feedback on this Audit accounting practices and policies, and good Compliance with the Code of Conduct Committee Report.
The Audit Committee reviews, The Audit Committee has oversight of the at least quarterly, the Companys significant Companys responsibilities under a US Yours sincerely accounting matters and, where appropriate, Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA which challenges managements decisions before is now in its final year.
In 2014, we received approving the accounting policies applied.
quarterly updates from the US Compliance In 2014, we looked in more detail at the Officer on our compliance with the CIA.
appropriateness of our revenue recognition Compliance with our Code of Conduct in Rudy Markham practices and policies.
We also considered Emerging Markets, particularly in Russia Chairman of the Audit Committee our restructuring and other related charges and China, has been an area of continuing as we go through a period of significant focus for the Audit Committee in 2014.
In reorganisation throughout the Group, how September, the Board visited our marketing those charges benchmark against our company based in Shanghai, China.
We pharmaceutical peer group, and the discussed the challenges and opportunities robustness of our processes to ensure that of China, which is one of AstraZenecas charges are appropriately accounted for fastest growing markets.
We talked to as Core or non-Core.
Our external auditor, members of management, including our after discussion with the Audit Committee, local and regional compliance officers about 96 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Corporate Governance Audit Committee membership calls between Audit Committee meetings subject to the approval of the Companys and attendance with each of the CFO: the Chief Compliance shareholders at a general meeting.
The members of the Audit Committee Officer: the Vice-President, IA: and the lead Shareholders authorise the Directors to are Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit partner of the external auditor.
fix the remuneration of the external auditor Committee, Bruce Burlington, Ann Cairns, at a general meeting.
The Audit Committee Jean-Philippe Courtois and Shriti Vadera.
The Audit Committee is currently scheduled reviews and approves the appointment and They are all Non-Executive Directors.
The to meet five times in 2015 and will meet at dismissal of the Vice-President, IA.
Board considers each member to be such other times as may be required.
independent under the UK Corporate Activities of the Audit Committee Governance Code and under the general Terms of reference in 2014 guidance and specific criteria of the Listing The core terms of reference of the Audit The Audit Committee has an annual Standards concerning the composition of Committee, which are available on our calendar of topics, developed from its audit committees applicable to non-US website, www.
com, include terms of reference, with standing items companies listed on the NYSE.
In April 2014, reviewing and reporting to the Board on which it considers in accordance with its we submitted the required annual written schedule at each quarterly meeting or, affirmation to the NYSE confirming our full matters relating to the audit plans insome cases, annually.
For the of the external auditor and IA as well purposes of the UK Corporate Governance as oversight of the work of the Global During 2014 and in February 2015, the Audit Code, the Board remains satisfied that at Compliance function Committee considered and discussed the least one member of the Audit Committee our overall framework for internal control following standing items: has recent and relevant financial experience.
over financial reporting and for other At its meeting in December 2014, the Board internal controls and processes The key elements of the Financial determined that Rudy Markham and Ann our overall framework for risk Statements, and the estimates and Cairns are Audit Committee financial management, particularly financial risks judgements contained in our financial experts for the purposes of the Sarbanesour accounting policies and practices disclosures.
Various accounting matters Oxley Act.
For more information regarding our annual and quarterly financial were considered.
These included the the experience of the Audit Committee reporting, including the critical estimates areas described in the Financial Review members, see the Board of Directors and judgements contained in our under Critical accounting policies and biographies on pages 28 and 29.
The reporting estimates with a focus on accounting Deputy Company Secretary acts as our internal control over financial reporting issues relevant to litigation and taxation secretary to the Audit Committee.
our Code of Conduct and whistleblower matters and goodwill impairment from procedures page 82 and other matters such as Meetings of the Audit Committee are compliance with our obligations under non-Core items, including restructuring routinely attended by the CFO: the General the CIA.
costs, with a particular focus on those Counsel: the Chief Compliance Officer: items that are non-Core.
Discussion of the Vice-President, IA: the Vice-President, The Audit Committee is responsible for these matters was supported by papers Group Financial Reporting: and our external notifying the Board of any significant prepared by management and the auditor.
The CEO attends on an agendaconcerns of the external auditor or the external auditor.
In line with its normal practice, Vice-President, IA arising from their audit The reports received from the external the Audit Committee also held a number work: any matters that may materially affect auditor concerning its audit of the Financial of private meetings, without management or impair the independence of the external Statements of the Group and from present, with the Chief Compliance Officer: auditor: any significant deficiencies or management, IA, Global Compliance and the General Counsel: the Vice-President, material weaknesses in the design or the external auditor on the effectiveness IA: and the Companys external auditor.
operation of our internal control over of our system of internal controls and, in These meetings were held between Audit financial reporting or other internal controls: particular, our internal control over financial Committee members and those individuals, and any serious issues of non-compliance reporting.
The Audit Committee also separately from the main sessions of the and how the Audit Committee has reviewed quarterly activity reports of audit Audit Committee.
It oversees work carried out by IA and the status of the establishment, implementation and follow-up actions with management, as Number of meetings and attendance maintenance of our Code of Conduct and well as reports from Global Compliance.
The Audit Committee held five scheduled other related policies.
It monitors the An update of the Group Risk Appetite meetings in 2014.
The attendance record Companys response to letters requesting Statement to reflect the revised strategy of the Audit Committee members is set out information and investigations initiated by and an annual review and update of in the Board and Board Committee meeting regulatory and governmental authorities the AstraZeneca Risk Management attendance in 2014 table on page 89. such as the SEC, the DOJ and the UK Framework, Top Risks, Emerging Risks Following each Audit Committee meeting, Financial Reporting Council FRC pertaining and Group Risk Taxonomy.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee to matters within the remit of the Audit The systems and processes that reported to the Board on the principal Committees work.
It has established management has developed for risk matters covered at the meeting and minutes procedures for the receipt and handling of identification, classification and mitigation.
of the meetings were circulated to all Board complaints concerning accounting or audit Compliance with the applicable provisions members.
In addition, the Chairman of the matters.
It recommends to the Board the of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In particular, Audit Committee held regular scheduled appointment of the external auditor, the status of compliance with the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 97 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued programme of internal controls over Committees work and to provide an chargebacks, cash discounts and returns financial reporting implemented pursuant opportunity to discuss specific areas for more information, please see the to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
These included Financial Review from page 70.
The Audit The Audit Committee remained focused Committee pays particular attention to on IT controls in the context of the receiving regular updates from the IT team managements estimates of these items, changes to the Groups IT environment, in connection with the transformation its analysis of any unusual movements described below.
More information about of AstraZenecas IT infrastructure, with and their impact on revenue recognition this is set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act particular attention to cybersecurity informed by commentary from the Section 404 section of the Financial considering our approach to the external auditor.
In particular, in 2014, Review on page 85. management of foreign exchange risk the Audit Committee considered the Data about reports made by employees in Emerging Markets accounting treatment of the US branded via the AZethics helpline, online facilities considering the robustness of the process pharmaceutical fee following enactment and other routes regarding potential by which product forecasts are compiled, of final regulations by the US Internal breaches of the Code of Conduct, assessed and included in the long-term Revenue Service in the third quarter together with the results of inquiries into business plan andtherebate calculation methodology those matters.
considering post-investment reviews andassumptions used at MedImmune.
Quarterly reports received from the US of a recent major business development Compliance Officer responsible for transaction, a capital expenditure project, Impairment of intangible assets monitoring the US businesss compliance and the integration of the BMS diabetes The Group has significant intangible assets with the CIA for more information about business acquired at the start of 2014. arising from the acquisition of businesses the obligations imposed on the Board by and IP rights to medicines in development the CIA, see below.
In addition to the quarterly reporting and on the market.
In his quarterly report Reports from the Group Treasury function stipulated by the CIA as described above, to the Audit Committee, the CFO outlines and, in particular, reports concerning the a number of other obligations required by the carrying value of the Groups intangible Groups liquidity and cash position and the the CIA were discharged by members of assets and, in respect of those intangible appropriateness of its cash management the Board and the Audit Committee during assets that are identified as at risk of policies in the context of the current 2014.
For example, all members of the impairment, the difference between the economic situation.
Board completed the annual CIA-required carrying value and managements current Going concern assessment and adoption training, addressing the Code of Conduct estimate of discounted future cash flows of the going concern basis in preparing and the elements of the CIA and the US for at risk products the headroom.
this Annual Report and the Financial compliance programme.
Furthermore, the Products will be identified as at risk Statements.
Board adopted a resolution signed by each because the headroom is limited or Other reports, on a quarterly basis, Board member in respect of the fourth because, for example, in the case of a concerning IA, Global Compliance and 12 month reporting period under the CIA.
medicine in development, a significant Finance, including the internal audit plan The resolution summarised the Boards development milestone such as the and progress and plans of Global oversight of the US compliance programme publication of clinical trial results could Compliance.
and stated that, to the best of the Boards significantly alter managements forecasts Quarterly reports from the General knowledge, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals for the product.
Counsel on the status of certain litigation LP and AstraZeneca LP AstraZenecas matters and governmental investigations.
principal US trading entities have In 2014, there were no significant The amount of audit and non-audit fees of implemented an effective US compliance impairments of intangible assets.
The programme to meet US federal healthcare Audit Committee was satisfied throughout programme, FDA and CIA requirements.
Litigation and contingent liabilities the year that the objectivity and Litigation, particularly that relating to the independence of the external auditor were Significant financial reporting issues enforcement and defence of IP rights not in any way impaired by the nature of considered by the Audit Committee protecting medicines, is a significant feature the non-audit work undertaken by the in2014 of the pharmaceutical industry.
In addition external auditor during the year, the level of The Audit Committee determined that the to IP litigation, the Group is involved in a non-audit fees charged for such work or significant issues considered during the number of government investigations and any other facts or circumstances.
Further year were is a defendant in certain product liability information about the audit and non-audit actions.
The Audit Committee receives fees for 2014 is disclosed in Note 29 to the revenue recognition regular updates from the General Counsel, Financial Statements on page 188. impairment of intangible assets and is informed by commentary from the A review and assessment of the Audit litigation and contingent liabilities external auditor, on the status of those Committees performance.
tax accounting litigation matters that might result in fines post-retirement benefits.
or damages against the Company to In addition to its usual business as assesswhether provisions should be taken described above, during 2014, members Revenue recognition and, if so, when and in what amounts.
of the Audit Committee met individual The US is our largest single market and Ofthe matters the Audit Committee managers or groups of managers on a sales accounted for 38.8% of our revenue considered in2014, the Nexium anti-trust number of occasions to gain a deeper in 2014.
Revenue recognition, particularly case and the DOJ investigation into insight into areas relevant to the Audit in the US, is impacted by rebates, Brilintawere among the most significant.
98 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Corporate Governance AstraZeneca successfully defended the with the transitional guidance issued by the should only be engaged where they are claims against it in the Nexium anti-trust FRC.
KPMG was first appointed as sole the only credible choice of service provider case and the DOJ decided to discontinue external auditor to AstraZeneca in 2001 for a particular piece of work.
At its meeting its investigation into the Brilinta PLATO trial.
The new EU in July 2014, the Audit Committee audit reform framework and the Competition determined that, with immediate effect, all Tax accounting & Markets Authoritys Order do not impact tax services to be performed by the auditor The Audit Committee considered the the Audit Committees decision to put the should be presented to the Audit Committee overalltax affairs of the Group in 2014, audit out to tender by 2018. for pre-approval.
This decision was in noting that the exposure associated with response to EU legislation that will restrict significant tax contingencies had reduced Non-audit services the non-audit services that can be provided somewhat but remains significant.
The The Audit Committee maintains a policy by the external auditor and which is AuditCommittee considered the key tax the Non-Audit Services Policy and expected to be effective from June 2016. developments at OECD, including proposed procedures for the pre-approval of all audit requirements for tax transparency through services and permitted non-audit services Fees paid to the auditor for audit, country-by-country reporting.
The Audit undertaken by the external auditor, the audit-related and other services are Committee concluded that the Company principal purpose of which is to ensure that analysed in Note 29 to the Financial would be well positioned to meet such the independence of the external auditor Statements on page 188.
Fees for non-audit additional requirements.
The policies and procedures services amounted to 34% of the fees paid cover three categories of work: audit to KPMG for audit, audit-related and other Post-retirement benefits services: audit-related services: and tax services in 2014.
Pension accounting continues to be services.
The policies define the type of asignificant area of focus.
The Audit work that falls within each of these Assessing external audit effectiveness Committee reviewed solvency ratios for categories and the non-audit services that In accordance with its normal practice, allsignificant pension plans and assessed the external auditor is prohibited from the Audit Committee considered the ongoing actions to secure the long-term performing under the rules of the SEC and performance of KPMG.
It also considered funding of the plans.
The Audit Committee other relevant UK and US professional and KPMGs compliance with the independence supported the Companys funding plans.
The pre-approval criteria under the relevant statutory, procedures permit certain audit, auditregulatory and ethical standards applicable Internal controls related and tax services to be performed to auditors and assessed its objectivity, At each quarterly meeting, the Audit by the external auditor during the year, taking into account the level of challenge Committee receives a report of the matters subject to fee limits agreed with the Audit provided around the critical estimates and considered by the Disclosure Committee Committee in advance.
The CFO supported judgements involved in our financial during the quarter.
At the February 2015 by the Vice-President, Group Financial reporting and the quality of our internal meeting, the CFO presented to the Audit Reporting monitors the status of all services control over financial reporting.
Having Committee the conclusions of the CEO being provided by the external auditor.
The considered all these factors, the Audit and the CFO following the evaluation of procedures also deal with placing non-audit Committee recommended to the Board the effectiveness of our disclosure controls work out for tender, where appropriate.
that a resolution for the re-appointment of and procedures required by Item 15 a of Authority to approve work in excess of the KPMG as the Companys external auditor Form 20-F at 31 December 2014.
Based pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the for the year ending 31 December 2015 be on their evaluation, the CEO and the CFO Chairman of the Audit Committee together proposed to shareholders at the AGM in concluded that, as at that date, we maintain with one other Audit Committee member in April 2015. an effective system of disclosure controls the first instance.
A standing agenda item and procedures.
at Audit Committee meetings covers the Consistent with current market practice, operation of the pre-approval procedures KPMGs services to the Company are There was no change in our internal control and regular reports are provided to the provided pursuant to terms of engagement, over financial reporting that occurred during full Audit Committee.
which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
the period covered by this Annual Report Neither these terms of engagement nor that has materially affected, or is reasonably In 2014, non-audit services provided any other agreement include any contractual likely to materially affect, our internal control to the Company by KPMG included tax obligations under which the Board would be over financial reporting.
compliance services and audit services in prevented from appointing a different audit relation to employee benefit funds, within firm were they to consider this to be in the Appointing the auditor and safeguards the scope of the pre-approved services set best interests of the Group.
The Audit on non-audit services out in the Non-Audit Services Policy.
The Committee, through management, We noted in our 2012 Annual Report that, Audit Committee supported managements continues to maintain contact and dialogue having reviewed the changes to the UK decision to enter into an outsourcing with other major audit firms who are familiar Corporate Governance Code with regard arrangement for tax and statutory accounts with the Groups business for succession to putting the external audit contract out preparation work, which, following purposes as required.
to tender at least every 10 years, and implementation in 2014, resulted in such cognisant of the fact that the lead audit work previously undertaken by KPMG partner at KPMG rotated in 2013, the Audit transitioning to another firm.
In addition, for Committee determined that the audit would other non-audit services, management has be put out to tender by 2018 in accordance determined that the Companys auditors AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 99
