Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Dear shareholder This Corporate Governance Report describes how the Group is organised, including the overall structure and principal roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees and the SET.
Length of tenure of Board composition All Directors are collectively responsible Non-Executive Directors The membership of the Board at for the success of the Group.
In addition, 31 December 2014 and information about the Non-Executive Directors are responsible U nder 3 years 4 individual Directors is contained in the Board for exercising independent, objective Leif Johansson of Directors section on pages 28 and 29. judgement in respect of Board decisions, Genevive Berger and for scrutinising and challenging Ann Cairns Graham Chipchase Corporate governance management.
The Non-Executive Directors 36 years 2 We have prepared this Annual Report also have various responsibilities concerning Bruce Burlington with reference to the UK Corporate the integrity of financial information, internal Shriti Vadera 69 years 4 Governance Code published by the UK controls and risk management.
Jean-Philippe Courtois Financial Reporting Council FRC in Rudy Markham 1 September 2012.
The Board conducts an annual review Nancy Rothwell of the Groups overall strategy.
The CEO, John Varley 9 years 1 This Corporate Governance Report CFO and SET take the lead in developing Marcus Wallenberg together with other sections of this Annual our strategy, which is then reviewed, Report describes how we apply the main constructively challenged and approved Gender split of Directors principles of good governance in the UK by the Board.
We have Male 9 complied throughout the accounting period John Varley, who joined the Board as Female 4 with the provisions of the UK Corporate a Non-Executive Director in 2006, was Governance Code, which is available on appointed as our Senior independent the FRCs website, www.
The role of the Senior independent Leadership and responsibilities Non-Executive Director is to serve as The roles of Chairman and CEO are split.
a sounding board for the Chairman and Directors nationalities Leif Johansson, our Non-Executive as an intermediary for the other Directors Chairman, is responsible for leadership of when necessary.
The Senior independent American 1 the Board.
Our CEO, Pascal Soriot, leads Non-Executive Director is also available British 6 the SET and has executive responsibility to shareholders if they have concerns French 4 Swedish 2 for running our business.
The Board that contact through the normal channels comprises 11 Non-Executive Directors, of Chairman or Executive Directors has including the Chairman, and two Executive failed to resolve, or for which such contact Directors the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and the is inappropriate.
There are four principal Board Committees: the Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination and Governance Committee: and the Science Committee.
The membership and work of these Committees is described on the following 1 The FRC published an updated UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 applicable to reporting pages.
In addition, there may from time to periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The Group time be constituted ad hoc Board expects to report against this edition for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Committees for specific projects or tasks.
86 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Corporate Governance Operation of the Board the Board and the status of succession The Board is responsible for setting our to both senior executive management and strategy and policies, overseeing risk Board level positions.
Directors have regular All Directors are and corporate governance, and monitoring contact with, and access to, succession progress towards meeting our objectives candidates for senior executive collectively responsible and annual plans.
The Board discharges management positions.
for the success of the these responsibilities through a programme of meetings that includes regular reviews of The Board aims to maintain a balance in Group.
In addition, the financial performance and critical business terms of the range of experience and skills Non-Executive Directors issues, and the formal annual strategy of individual Board members, which review day.
The Board also aims to ensure includes relevant international business, are responsible for that a good dialogue with our shareholders pharmaceutical industry and financial exercising independent, is maintained and that their issues and experience, as well as appropriate scientific concerns are understood and considered.
The biographies objective judgement of Board members set out on pages 28 The Board held 19 meetings in 2014, and 29 give more information about current including its usual annual strategy review.
The Board views Two meetings were telephone meetings, gender, nationality and cultural diversity which were convened at short notice, at among Board members as important In these cases, the scope and which business development transactions considerations when reviewing the responsibilities of the Committee are were discussed and approved.
Eleven composition of the Board.
The Board provides adequate meetings related to the approaches recognises, in particular, the importance resources to enable each Committee to from Pfizer during the year.
All of the six of gender diversity.
Currently, 36% of the undertake its duties.
scheduled meetings took place in London, Companys Non-Executive Directors are UK with the exception of the meeting in women and women make up 31% of the full Reserved matters and delegation September 2014, which took place at Board.
Although it has not set any specific of authority AstraZenecas offices in Shanghai, measurable objectives, the Board intends The Board maintains and periodically China.
The Board is currently scheduled to continue with its current approach to reviews a list of matters that are reserved to meet six times in 2015, and will meet diversity in all its aspects, while at the same to, and can only be approved by, the Board.
at such other times as may be required time seeking Board members of the highest These include: the appointment, termination to conduct business.
calibre, and with the necessary experience and remuneration of any Director: approval and skills to meet the needs of the Company of the annual budget: approval of any As part of the business of each Board and its shareholders.
Information about our item of fixed capital expenditure or any meeting, the CEO typically submits a approach to diversity in the organisation proposal for the acquisition or disposal of progress report, giving details of business below Board level can be found in an investment or business which exceeds performance and progress against the Employees from page 62.
$150 million: the raising of capital or loans by goals the Board has approved.
To ensure the Company subject to certain exceptions : that the Board has good visibility of the The following changes to the composition the giving of any guarantee in respect of any key operating decisions of the business, of the Board have occurred during the borrowing of the Company: and allotting members of the SET attend Board meetings period covered by this Annual Report: shares of the Company.
The matters that regularly and Board members meet other have not been expressly reserved to the senior executives throughout the year.
Ann Cairns was elected as a NonBoard are delegated by the Board to its The Board also receives accounting and Executive Director and appointed Committees or the CEO.
other management information about our as a member of the Audit Committee resources, and presentations from internal with effect from 24 April 2014.
The CEO is responsible to the Board for and external speakers on legal, governance Graham Chipchase was appointed as a the management, development and and regulatory developments.
At the end member of the Remuneration Committee performance of our business for those of Board meetings, the Non-Executive with effect from 6 May 2014 and stepped matters for which he has been delegated Directors meet without the Executive down from the Audit Committee with authority from the Board.
Although the CEO Directors present to review and discuss effect from the same date.
retains full responsibility for the authority any matters that have arisen during the delegated to him by the Board, he has meeting and or such other matters as may Independence of the Non-Executive established, and chairs, the SET, which is appear to the Non-Executive Directors to Directors the vehicle through which he exercises that be relevant in properly discharging their During 2014, the Board considered the authority in respect of our business.
independence of each Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the UK The roles of the Board, Board Committees, Board effectiveness Corporate Governance Code and the Chairman and CEO are documented, as Composition of the Board, succession corporate governance listing standards are the Boards reserved powers and planning and diversity of the NYSE Listing Standards.
The Nomination and Governance exception of Marcus Wallenberg, the Board Committee and, where appropriate, the full considers that all of the Non-Executive Board, regularly review the composition of Directors are independent.
Leif Johansson AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 87 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committee membership Nomination and 1 Name Audit Remuneration Governance Science Independent Genevive Berger Bruce Burlington Ann Cairns Graham Chipchase Jean-Philippe Courtois Marc Dunoyer n a 2 Leif Johansson Chair n a Rudy Markham Chair Nancy Rothwell Chair Pascal Soriot n a Shriti Vadera John Varley Chair Marcus Wallenberg 1 As determined by the Board for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
2 L eif Johansson was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
was considered by the Board to be be a breach of the Directors duty, under members time commitment exceeds this independent upon his appointment as Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006. minimum expectation when all the work that Chairman.
In accordance with the UK The Board has a formal system in place they undertake for the Group is considered, Corporate Governance Code, the test of for Directors to declare such situations particularly in the case of the Chairman of independence is not appropriate in relation to be considered for authorisation by those the Board and the Chairmen of the Board to the Chairman after his appointment.
Directors who have no interest in the matter Committees.
As well as their work in relation being considered.
In deciding whether to to formal Board and Board Committee Marcus Wallenberg was appointed authorise a situation, the non-conflicted meetings, the Non-Executive Directors also as a Director of Astra in May 1989 and Directors must act in the way they consider, commit time throughout the year to subsequently became a Director of the in good faith, would be most likely to meetings and telephone calls with various Company in 1999.
He is a Non-Executive promote the success of the Company, and levels of executive management, visits to Director of Investor AB, which has a 4.08% they may impose limits or conditions when AstraZenecas sites throughout the world interest in the issued share capital of the giving the authorisation, or subsequently, and, for new Non-Executive Directors, Company as at 5 February 2015.
A number if they think this is appropriate.
Situations induction sessions and site visits.
of Wallenberg charitable foundations have considered by the Board and authorisations connections to Mr Wallenberg and to given are recorded in the Board minutes On occasions when a Director is Investor AB.
For these reasons, the Board and in a register of conflicts maintained unavoidably absent from a Board or does not believe that he can be determined by the Company Secretary, and are Board Committee meeting, for example independent under the UK Corporate reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board where a meeting clashes with their existing Governance Code.
However, the Board believes that this system operates effectively.
commitments, they still receive and review believes that he has brought, and continues the papers for the meeting and typically to bring, considerable business experience Appointments to the Board provide verbal or written input ahead of the and makes a valuable contribution to the The Nomination and Governance meeting, usually through the Chairman of work of the Board.
In April 2010, he was Committee section from page 91 provides the Board or the Chairman of the relevant appointed as a member of the Science information about the appointment Board Committee, so that their views are Committee, reflecting his interest in process for new Directors.
made known and considered at the innovation and R&D, knowledge of the meeting.
Given the nature of the business history of the Company and its scientific Newly appointed Directors are provided to be conducted, some Board meetings are heritage and culture, and his broad comprehensive information about convened at short notice, which can make experience of other industries and the Group and their role as Non-Executive it difficult for some Directors to attend due businesses in which innovation and R&D Directors.
They also typically attend tailored to prior commitments.
are important determinants of success.
induction programmes that take account of their individual skills and experience.
Information and support Conflicts of interest The Company Secretary is responsible The Articles enable the Directors to Time commitment to the Chairman for ensuring that all authorise any situation in which a Director Our expectation is that Non-Executive Board and Board Committee meetings has an interest that conflicts or has the Directors should be prepared to commit are properly conducted, that the Directors potential to conflict with the Companys 15 days a year, as an absolute minimum, receive appropriate information prior to interests and which would otherwise to the Groups business.
In practice, Board meetings to enable them to make 88 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Corporate Governance Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2014 Board meetings Board Committee meetings Nomination In relation to and 1 2 Name Scheduled Unscheduled Pfizer Total Audit Remuneration Governance Science Genevive Berger 6 6 2 2 11 11 19 19 4 5 Bruce Burlington 6 6 1 2 10 11 17 19 5 5 5 5 3 Ann Cairns 4 4 2 2 8 8 14 14 3 3 4 Graham Chipchase 6 6 2 2 6 11 14 19 2 2 7 7 Jean-Philippe Courtois 6 6 1 2 9 11 16 19 5 5 Marc Dunoyer 6 6 2 2 11 11 19 19 Leif Johansson 6 6 2 2 11 11 19 19 13 13 5 5 Rudy Markham 6 6 1 2 11 11 18 19 5 5 12 13 5 5 Nancy Rothwell 5 6 2 2 11 11 18 19 9 13 5 5 5 5 Pascal Soriot 6 6 2 2 11 11 19 19 Shriti Vadera 6 6 2 2 11 11 19 19 5 5 John Varley 6 6 2 2 9 11 17 19 13 13 5 5 Marcus Wallenberg 5 6 2 2 11 11 18 19 3 5 Note: number in brackets denotes number of meetings during the year that Board members were entitled to attend.
1 The Board held six scheduled meetings, and two unscheduled meetings convened at short notice at which business development transactions were discussed and approved.
2 The Board held 11 meetings during the year in relation to the approaches from Pfizer.
3 Ann Cairns was elected as a Non-Executive Director and appointed as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 24 April 2014.
4 Graham Chipchase was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee and stepped down from the Audit Committee with effect from 6 May 2014. an effective contribution, and that Other than these limited instances, Lintstock perform effectively and to demonstrate governance requirements are considered is not a supplier to the Company and was commitment to his or her role.
able to act as a robust and independent led by the Senior independent Nonexternal facilitator for the Board Executive Director, the other Non-Executive The Company maintained Directors and performance evaluation.
Directors absent the Chairman evaluated Officers Liability Insurance cover throughout the performance of the Chairman.
The Directors are also able to obtain The 2014 evaluation involved a series reviews of the Boards Committees did not independent legal advice at the expense of short, web-based questionnaires and raise any significant problems and of the Company, as necessary, in their individual conversations between Lintstock concluded that the committees are capacity as Directors.
and each Board member, following which operating effectively.
Lintstock prepared a report of its findings The Company has entered into a deed of for the Chairman.
Subsequently, the main The Board intends to continue to comply indemnity in favour of each Board member themes of the report were discussed with the UK Corporate Governance Code since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are between the Chairman and individual guidance that the evaluation should be still in force and provide that the Company Directors, and collectively at the Board externally facilitated at least every three shall indemnify the Directors to the fullest meeting in December 2014.
A number years and expects to commission the next extent permitted by law and the Articles, of areas were reviewed, including the externally facilitated review in 2017. in respect of all losses arising out of, or composition of the Board and expertise in connection with, the execution of their of Board members: the dynamics among Re-election of Directors powers, duties and responsibilities as Board members and between the Board In accordance with Article 66 of the Directors of the Company or any of its and management: the effectiveness of Articles, all Directors retire at each AGM subsidiaries.
This is in line with current Board oversight, with particular focus on and may offer themselves for re-election market practice and helps us attract and strategy and succession planning: how the by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
Board handled the approaches from Pfizer: Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2015. and the Boards priorities for 2015.
Overall, The Notice of AGM will give details of those Performance evaluation it was concluded that the Board operates Directors seeking re-election.
During the year, the Board conducted the effectively and in an open manner and no annual evaluation of its own performance significant problems were raised.
Some Accountability and that of its Committees and individual improvements to ways of working were Risk management and internal control Directors.
This was facilitated by Lintstock proposed, such as the way in which the The Board has overall responsibility for Ltd Lintstock, a London-based corporate Nomination and Governance Committee our system of internal controls and risk advisory firm that provides objective and and the Remuneration Committee report management policies and has an independent counsel to leading European back to the full Board and how the Board ongoing responsibility for reviewing their companies.
For a number of years, makes use of its informal time outside effectiveness.
During 2014, the Directors Lintstock has supplied software and Board meetings.
As part of each Directors continued to review the effectiveness of services to the Company Secretarys team individual discussion with the Chairman, his our system of controls, risk management for the web-based questionnaires used or her contribution to the work of the Board and high level internal control processes.
for internal Board performance evaluations, and personal development needs were These reviews included an assessment and for the management of insider lists.
Each Director continues to of internal controls and, in particular, AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 89 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued financial, operational and compliance we aim to present a balanced and above, the Senior independent Noncontrols, and risk management and their understandable assessment of our strategy, Executive Director, John Varley, is also effectiveness, supported by management financial position and prospects.
available to shareholders if they have assurance of the maintenance of controls concerns that contact through the normal reports from IA, as well as the external We make information about the Group channels of Chairman, CEO and or CFO auditor on matters identified in the course available to shareholders through a range has failed to resolve, or in relation to of its statutory audit work.
The system is of media, including our corporate website, which such contact is inappropriate.
All designed to manage rather than eliminate www.
com, which contains a shareholders, including private investors, the risk of failure to achieve business wide range of data of interest to institutional have an opportunity at the AGM to objectives and can only provide reasonable and private investors.
We consider our put questions to members of the Board not necessarily absolute assurance of website to be an important means of about our operation and performance.
effective operation and compliance with communication with our shareholders.
Formal notification of the AGM is sent to laws and regulations.
shareholders at least one month in advance.
The Company has been authorised The Board ordinarily attends the AGM to The internal control framework was in by shareholders to place shareholder answer questions raised by shareholders.
operation throughout 2014 and continues communications such as the Notice In line with the UK Corporate Governance to operate up to the date of the approval of AGM and this Annual Report on the Code, details of proxy voting by of this Annual Report.
The Directors believe corporate website in lieu of sending paper shareholders, including votes withheld, that the Group maintains an effective, copies to shareholders unless specifically are given at the AGM and are posted embedded system of internal controls and requested.
While recognising and on our website following the AGM.
complies with the FRCs guidance entitled respecting that some shareholders may Guidance on Risk Management, Internal have different preferences about how Pfizers approaches Control and Related Financial and Business they receive information from us, we On 28 April 2014, Pfizer issued a statement Reporting and, in the view of the Directors, will continue to promote the benefits regarding a possible offer for the Company no significant deficiencies have been of electronic communication given the under Rule 2.4 of the City Code on identified in the system.
advantages that this has over traditional Takeovers and Mergers the Takeover paper-based communications, both in Code and confirmed that a preliminary, More information about the ways in which terms of the configurability and accessibility non-binding indication of interest had been we manage our business risks is set out of the information provided and the submitted to the Board in January 2014 in Risk from page 203, which also describes consequent cost savings and reduction regarding a possible merger transaction.
the principal risks and uncertainties that in environmental impact.
On the same date, the Company we face.
responded, issuing a statement that, absent We have frequent discussions with a specific and attractive proposal, it was Remuneration institutional shareholders on a range of not appropriate to engage in discussions Information about our approach to issues.
In addition to holding discussions with Pfizer.
remuneration and the role and work of with groups of shareholders, we also hold the Remuneration Committee, including individual meetings with some of our largest On 2 May 2014, Pfizer made a further our policy on executive remuneration, is set institutional shareholders to seek their views.
announcement of a possible offer for out in Governance and Remuneration from Board members are kept informed of any the Company under Rule 2.4 of the page 26 and in more detail in the Directors issues, and receive regular reports and Takeover Code.
The Company made an Remuneration Report from page 100. presentations from executive management announcement on the same date stating and our brokers to assist them to develop that the Board had met and considered Policy on external appointments and an understanding of major shareholders the approach from Pfizer and had rejected retention of fees views about the Group.
From time to it on the basis that the financial and other Subject to specific Board approval in time, we conduct an audit of institutional terms described in the proposal were each case, Executive Directors and other shareholders to ensure that we are inadequate, substantially undervalued the SET members may accept external communicating clearly with them and that Company and were not a basis on which appointments as non-executive directors a high-quality dialogue is being maintained.
of other companies, and retain any related The results of this audit are reported to, fees paid to them, provided that such and discussed by, the full Board.
We also On 16 May 2014, Pfizer made a third appointments are not considered by the respond to individual ad hoc requests for proposal of 53.50 per share, which the Board to prevent or reduce the ability discussions from institutional shareholders Board rejected on 17 May.
of the executive to perform his or her role and analysts.
Our Investor Relations team within the Group to the required standard.
acts as the main point of contact for On 18 May 2014, Pfizer announced investors throughout the year.
During 2014, a final proposal to AstraZeneca under Relations with shareholders the Chairman, the Senior independent Rule 2.4 of the Takeover Code.
On 19 May, In our quarterly, half yearly and annual Non-Executive Director, the CEO and the the Company issued a statement noting financial and business reporting to CFO held numerous meetings with our that the Board had rejected Pfizers final shareholders and other interested parties, largest institutional shareholders in relation proposal on the basis that it still undervalued to the approaches from Pfizer.
As discussed the Company and its attractive prospects, with a statement from the Chairman saying: 90 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Corporate Governance Pascal Soriot, Marc Dunoyer and I had We have rejected Pfizers final proposal matters: our internal controls over a lengthy discussion with Pfizer over the because it is inadequate and would non-financial matters, compliance with laws weekend about the proposal Pfizer made present significant risks for shareholders, and our Code of Conduct: the Companys on Friday evening at a value of 53.50 while also having serious consequences relationship with its external auditor: and per share.
During this discussion, Pfizer for the Company, our employees and the the appropriateness of the Companys said that it could consider only minor life-sciences sector in the UK, Sweden risk management framework, in each case improvements in the financial terms of the and the US.
with the ultimate aim of protecting our Friday proposal.
In response, we indicated, shareholders interests.
even assuming that other key aspects On 26 May 2014, Pfizer made an of any proposal had been satisfactory, announcement under Rule 2.8 of the Audit Committee Report from page 96 that the price at which the Board of Takeover Code stating that it did not intend AstraZeneca would be prepared to to make an offer for AstraZeneca.
The Remuneration Committee provide a recommendation would have Company made an announcement on The principal role of the Remuneration to be more than 10% above the level the same date, with a statement from the Committee is to consider and set, on contained in Pfizers Friday proposal.
The Chairman saying: behalf of the Board, the remuneration final proposal is a minor improvement including pension rights and compensation which continues to fall short of the Boards We note Pfizers confirmation that it no payments of Executive Directors and other view of value and has been rejected.
longer intends to make an offer for senior executives.
It also considers and AstraZeneca.
We welcome the opportunity sets the remuneration of the Chairman, Pfizers approach throughout its pursuit to continue building on the momentum in conjunction with the Senior independent of AstraZeneca appears to have been we have already demonstrated as an Non-Executive Director and in the absence fundamentally driven by the corporate independent company.
We are fully of the Chairman.
No Director is involved financial benefits to its shareholders of focused on the delivery of our strategy.
We in deciding his or her own remuneration.
cost savings and tax minimisation.
From have attractive growth prospects and a our first meeting in January to our latest rapidly progressing pipeline.
In the coming Directors Remuneration Report discussion yesterday, and in the numerous months, we anticipate positive news flow from page 100 phone calls in between, Pfizer has failed across our core therapeutic areas, which to make a compelling strategic, business underpins our confidence in the long-term Nomination and Governance or value case.
The Board is firm in its prospects of the business.
The Board is Committee conviction as to the appropriate terms grateful to Pascal, his management team The Nomination and Governance to recommend to shareholders.
and to all of our employees for their Committees role is to recommend to the dedication and focus over a period of Board any new Board appointments and AstraZeneca has created a culture of uncertainty.
AstraZeneca has a culture to consider, more broadly, succession plans innovation, with science at the heart of its of innovation, with science at the heart of at Board level.
It reviews the composition operations, which will continue to create everything we do.
I believe this will create of the Board using a matrix that records significant value for patients, shareholders significant value for our shareholders, the skills and experience of current Board and all stakeholders of AstraZeneca.
employees and patients who will benefit members, comparing this with the skills and from our life-changing medicines.
experience it believes are appropriate to the As an independent company, the entire Companys overall business and strategic value of AstraZenecas pipeline will Audit Committee needs, both now and in the future.
Any accrue to our shareholders.
Under The principal role of the Audit Committee decisions relating to the appointment of Pfizers final proposal, this value would is to provide assurance to the Board in the Directors are made by the entire Board be significantly diluted.
following areas: the integrity of our financial based on the merits of the candidates and reporting and internal controls over financial the relevance of their background and Pfizers approaches Timeline of events 25 November 2013 Pfizer makes initial approach to AstraZeneca 1 5 January 2014 Pfizer makes first proposal 46.61 12 January 2014 The Board rejects Pfizers first proposal 28 April 2014 Pfizer issues statement of interest put up or shut up PUSU period starts 1 2 May 2014 Pfizer makes second proposal 50.00 2 May 2014 The Board rejects Pfizers second proposal 1 16 May 2014 Pfizer makes third proposal 53.50 17 May 2014 The Board rejects Pfizers third proposal 1 18 May 2014 Pfizer issues final proposal 55.00 19 May 2014 The Board rejects Pfizers final proposal 20 May 2014 The Board clarifies Pfizers final proposal and Pfizer clarifies its proposal 26 May 2014 Pfizer withdraws and PUSU period expires 26 November 2014 Expiration of six-month period post-PUSU deadline 1 Indicative value per share, comprised of part cash and part Pfizer stock.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 91 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued experience, measured against objective leaders and other scientist employees: on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, a report criteria, with care taken to ensure that visits to our R&D sites throughout the world: by management stating its responsibility for appointees have enough time to devote and review and assessment of establishing internal control over financial to our business.
reporting and to assess annually the the approaches we adopt in respect effectiveness of such internal control.
We The Nomination and Governance of our chosen therapy areas have complied with those provisions of the Committee also advises the Board the scientific technology and R&D Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign periodically on significant developments capabilities we deploy private issuers.
The Board continues to in corporate governance and the the decision-making processes for believe that the Group has a sound Companys compliance with the R&D projects and programmes corporate governance framework, good UK Corporate Governance Code.
the quality of our scientists and their processes for the accurate and timely career opportunities and talent reporting of its financial position and results During 2014, the Chairman of the development of operations, and an effective and robust Nomination and Governance Committee benchmarking against industry and system of internal controls.
We have was Leif Johansson.
The members of the scientific best practice, where established a Disclosure Committee, Nomination and Governance Committee appropriate.
further details of which can be found in the were Rudy Markham, Nancy Rothwell Disclosure Committee section opposite.
Each member is a The Science Committee periodically reviews Non-Executive Director and considered important bioethical issues that we face, The Directors assessment of the independent by the Board.
The Company and assists in the formulation of, and agrees effectiveness of internal control over Secretary acts as secretary to the on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies financial reporting is set out in Directors Nomination and Governance Committee.
in relation to such issues.
It may also Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal consider, from time to time, future trends Control over Financial Reporting in the The Nomination and Governance in medical science and technology.
The Financial Statements on page 129.
Committee considers both planned and Science Committee does not review unplanned unanticipated succession individual R&D projects but does review, We are required to disclose any significant scenarios and met five times in 2014. on behalf of the Board, the R&D aspects ways in which our corporate governance As part of routine succession planning of specific business development or practices differ from those followed by US for Non-Executive Director roles during the acquisition proposals and advises the companies under the Listing Standards.
In year, MWM Consulting and The Zygos Board on its conclusions.
addition, we must comply fully with the Partnership assisted the Nomination and provisions of the Listing Standards relating Governance Committee with searches for During 2014, the members of the Science to the composition, responsibilities and new Non-Executive Directors.
One of those Committee, all of whom have a knowledge operation of audit committees, applicable searches culminated in a recommendation of, or an interest in, life sciences, were to foreign private issuers.
These provisions from the Committee to the Board to Nancy Rothwell Chairman of the Science incorporate the rules concerning audit propose Ann Cairns for election by Committee, Genevive Berger, Bruce committees implemented by the SEC under shareholders as a new Non-Executive Burlington and Marcus Wallenberg.
We have reviewed Director at the AGM in 2014.
Neither MWM EVP, GMD: the EVP, IMED: and the EVP, the corporate governance practices Consulting nor The Zygos Partnership has MedImmune, attended meetings of the required to be followed by US companies any other connection to the Company.
The under the Listing Standards and our During 2014, the Nomination and Vice-President, IMED Operations acts as corporate governance practices are Governance Committee also undertook secretary to the Science Committee.
generally consistent with those standards.
routine and long-term succession planning work in respect of the role of CEO, with the The Science Committee met twice in Business organisation assistance of Spencer Stuart.
Spencer person in 2014, in London and in Alderley Senior Executive Team Stuart undertakes executive search Park, and held three other meetings, all of The CEO is responsible for establishing, and assignments for the Company periodically.
which were by telephone, to review specific chairs, the SET.
The SET normally meets business development or acquisition once a month or as otherwise required by The attendance record of the Nomination proposals.
business need, to consider major business and Governance Committees members is issues, and makes recommendations to the set out on page 89.
The Science Committees terms of CEO.
Typically, it also reviews, in advance reference are available on our website, of submission to the Board, those matters The Nomination and Governance www.
which are to be submitted to the Board for Committees terms of reference are available review and decision.
US corporate governance requirements In addition to the CEO, CFO, General Science Committee Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, Counsel, and Chief Compliance Officer, The Science Committees core role is to accordingly, we are subject to the reporting the SET comprises nine EVPs representing: provide assurance to the Board regarding and other requirements of the SEC IMED: MedImmune: GMD: North America: the quality, competitiveness and integrity applicable to foreign private issuers.
Section International: Europe: GPPS: Operations of the Groups R&D activities by way of 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires & Information Services: and Human meetings and dialogue with our R&D companies to include in their annual report Resources.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the SET.
92 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Corporate Governance Early Stage Product Committees ESPCs decision to invest in life-cycle approach to compliance that addresses and Late Stage Product Committee management activities for the late-stage key risk areas across the business.
LSPC assets The ESPCs and LSPC were established decision to invest in late-stage business Risk from page 203 in 2013. development opportunities.
Global Compliance provides direct Early Stage Product Committees Disclosure Committee assurance to the Audit Committee on The ESPCs are senior level, cross-functional Our disclosure policy provides a framework matters concerning compliance issues, governance bodies with accountability for for the handling and disclosure of inside including an analysis of compliance oversight of our early-stage small molecule information and other information of interest breaches.
Complementing this, IA carries and biologics portfolio to Proof of Concept to shareholders and the investment out a range of audits that include stage.
The EVPs of our two biotech units, community.
It also defines the role of the compliance-related audits and reviews IMED and MedImmune, chair our ESPCs.
The members of the assurance activities of other The ESPCs seek to deliver a flow of of the Disclosure Committee in 2014 were: Group assurance functions.
The results products to GMD for Phase III development the CFO, who chaired the Disclosure from these activities are reported to the through to launch.
The ESPCs also seek Committee: the EVP, GMD who is also Audit Committee.
to maximise the value of our internal and the Companys Chief Medical Officer : the external R&D investments through robust, General Counsel: the Vice-President, IA is established by the Audit Committee transparent and well-informed decision Global Communications: the Vice-President, on behalf of the Board and acts as an making that drives business performance Investor Relations: and the Vice-President, independent and objective assurance and accountability.
The Deputy function guided by a philosophy of adding Company Secretary acted as secretary to value to improve the operations of the Specifically, the ESPCs have responsibility the Disclosure Committee.
The scope of IAs responsibilities for the following Committee meets regularly to assist and encompasses, but is not limited to, the inform the decisions of the CEO concerning examination and evaluation of the adequacy approving early-stage investment inside information and its disclosure.
and effectiveness of the Groups decisions Periodically, it reviews our disclosure governance, risk management, and internal prioritising the respective portfolios controls and procedures and its own control processes in relation to the Groups licensing activity for products in Phase I operation as part of work carried out to defined goals and objectives.
and earlier enable management and the Board to delivering internal and external assure themselves that appropriate Internal control objectives considered by opportunities processes are operating for our planned IA include reviewing allocation of R&D resources.
disclosures, such as our quarterly results announcements and scheduled investor consistency of operations or programmes Late Stage Product Committee relations events.
with established objectives and goals and The LSPC is also a senior level governance effective performance body, accountable for the quality of the Disclosure of information to auditors effectiveness and efficiency of operations portfolio post-Phase III investment decision.
The Directors who held office at the date of and employment of resources It was formed in early 2013, replacing three approval of this Annual Report confirm that, compliance with significant policies, committees, in a move to streamline so far as they are each aware, there is no plans, procedures, laws, and regulations development project governance.
Jointly relevant audit information of which the reliability and integrity of management chaired by the EVPs of GMD and GPPS, Companys auditors are unaware: and and financial information processes, members include, as appropriate, members each Director has taken all the steps that he including the means to identify, measure, of the SET, including the CEO and CFO, or she ought to have taken as a Director classify, and report such information and members of the GMD and GPPS to make himself or herself aware of any safeguarding of assets.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Based on its activity, IA is responsible for The LSPC seeks to maximise the that information.
reporting significant risk exposures and value of our investments in the late-stage control issues identified to the Board and portfolio, also ensuring well-informed Compliance and Internal Audit to senior management, including fraud and robust decision making.
Specific Services IA risks, governance issues, and other accountabilities include The role of the Global Compliance function matters needed or requested by the Audit is to manage and maintain the compliance Committee.
It may also evaluate specific approval of the criteria supporting Proof programme infrastructure and to help operations at the request of the Audit of Concept embed a culture of ethics and integrity Committee or management, as appropriate.
decision to invest in Phase III development in the Group.
Global Compliance works based on agreement of commercial closely with IA, with whom it provides Code of Conduct opportunity and our plans to develop the assurance reporting to the Audit Our Code of Conduct the Code, which is medicine Committee.
During 2015, the Global available on our website, www.
evaluation of the outcome of the Compliance function will continue to focus com, applies worldwide to all full-time and development programme and decision to on ensuring the delivery of an aligned part-time Directors, officers, employees and proceed to regulatory filing temporary staff, in all companies within our AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 93 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Group.
A Finance Code complements the Our Global Policies supplement the Code.
dividend payment to shareholders of Code.
It applies to the CEO, the CFO, the They provide clear and comprehensive $3,521 million.
An employee share trust, Groups principal accounting officers guidance in key ethical, compliance and AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited, waived including key Finance staff in major corporate responsibility risk areas.
its right to a dividend on the Ordinary overseas subsidiaries and all Finance Shares that it holds and instead received function employees.
This reinforces the Other matters a nominal dividend.
importance of the integrity of the Groups Corporate governance statement under Financial Statements, the reliability of the the UK Disclosure and Transparency A shareholders resolution was passed accounting records on which they are Rules DTR at the 2014 AGM authorising the Company based and the robustness of the relevant The disclosures that fulfil the requirements to purchase its own shares.
The Company controls and processes.
of a corporate governance statement under did not repurchase any of its own shares the DTR can be found in this section and in in 2014.
The Code is at the core of our compliance other parts of this Annual Report as listed programme.
It has been translated into over below, each of which is incorporated into Going concern accounting basis 40 languages and employees have access this section by reference Information on the business environment in to an electronic copy.
It provides clear which AstraZeneca operates, including the direction as to how our commitment to significant holders of the Companys factors underpinning the industrys future honesty and integrity is to be realised in shares growth prospects, is included in the consistent actions across all areas of the Articles Strategic Report.
Details of the product business.
Compliance with the Code is amendments to the Articles.
portfolio of the Group are contained in both mandatory and every employee receives the Strategic Report in the Therapy Area training on it.
Every employee is required Shareholder Information from page 232 Review from page 32 and the Directors to comply with local laws and regulations, and Corporate Information from page 237 Report.
Information on patent expiry dates as well as applicable national and for key marketed products is included international codes.
We always seek Subsidiaries and principal activities in Patent Expiries from page 201.
Our to operate at the highest standards.
The The Company is the holding company approach to product development and our Code is reviewed periodically and updated for a group of subsidiaries whose principal development pipeline are also covered in to take account of changing legal and activities are described in this Annual detail with additional information by therapy regulatory obligations.
Principal subsidiaries and their area in the Strategic Report.
locations are given in Principal Subsidiaries The Code contains information on how in the Financial Statements on page 189.
The financial position of the Group, its to report possible violations through our cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Helpline, which includes the AZethics Branches and countries in which the facilities are described in the Financial telephone lines, the AZethics website, and Group conducts business Review from page 70.
In addition, Note 25 the Global Compliance email and postal In accordance with the Companies Act to the Financial Statements from page 174 addresses described in the Code.
Anyone 2006, we disclose below our subsidiary includes the Groups objectives, policies who raises a potential breach in good faith companies that have representative or and processes for managing capital: is fully supported by management.
We scientific branches offices outside the UK financial risk management objectives: details take all alleged compliance breaches of its financial instruments and hedging and concerns extremely seriously, and AstraZeneca UK Limited: Algeria scientific activities: and its exposures to credit, market investigate them and report the outcome of office, Angola, Azerbaijan, Belarus, and liquidity risk.
Further details of the such investigations to the Audit Committee, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Groups cash balances and borrowings are as appropriate.
Cuba, Georgia, Ghana scientific office, included in Notes 16 and 17 to the Financial Jordan, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Romania, Statements from page 159.
In 2014, 247 reports of alleged compliance Russia, Saudi Arabia scientific office, breaches or other ethical concerns were Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia, Syria The Group has considerable financial made through the Helpline.
In 2013, there and Ukraine resources available.
As at 31 December were 149 reports.
However, during 2014 AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office, 2014, the Group had $7.0 billion in financial we extended our recording of Helpline Slovakia and the United Arab Emirates resources cash balances of $6.4 billion cases to include reports made by any other AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: and undrawn committed bank facilities of anonymous route that could be considered Vietnam.
$3.0 billion, which are available until April whistleblowing, and this change accounts, 2019, with only $2.4 billion of debt due at least in part, for the increase from 2013 Distributions to shareholders dividends within one year.
The Groups revenues are to 2014.
The majority of cases come to for 2014 largely derived from sales of products that our attention through management and Details of our distribution policy are set out are covered by patents, which provide self-reporting, which can be seen as an in the Financial Review on page 81 and a relatively high level of resilience and indication that employees are more Notes 22 and 23 to the Financial Statements predictability to cash inflows, although comfortable in raising their concerns on page 169. our revenue is expected to continue to with line managers, local HR, Legal or be significantly impacted by the expiry of Compliance, as recommended in the Code The Companys dividend for 2014 of $2.80 patents over the medium term.
In addition, and reinforced in the 2014 Code training.
178.1 pence, SEK 21.82 per Ordinary government price interventions in response Share amount to, in aggregate, a total to budgetary constraints are expected to 94 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Corporate Governance continue to adversely affect revenues in donations and other political expenditure Annual General Meeting many of our mature markets.
However, we in broad terms, a resolution will be put to The Companys AGM will be held on 24 anticipate new revenue streams from both shareholders at the 2015 AGM, similar to April 2015.
The meeting place will be in recently launched medicines and products that passed at the 2014 AGM, to authorise London, UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent in development, and the Group has a the Company and its subsidiaries to to all registered holders of Ordinary Shares wide diversity of customers and suppliers and, where requested, to the beneficial across geographic areas.
Consequently, make donations to political parties or holders of shares.
the Directors believe that, overall, the independent election candidates Group is well placed to manage its business make donations to political organisations External auditor risks successfully.
other than political parties A resolution will be proposed at the AGM incur political expenditure, up to an on 24 April 2015 for the re-appointment After making enquiries, the Directors have a aggregate limit of $250,000.
of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company.
reasonable expectation that the Company The external auditor has undertaken various and the Group have adequate resources Corporate political contributions in the US non-audit work for us during 2014.
More to continue in operational existence for are permitted in defined circumstances information about this work and the audit the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they under the First Amendment of the US and non-audit fees that we have paid are continue to adopt the going concern basis Constitution and are subject to both federal set out in Note 29 to the Financial in preparing the Annual Report and and state laws and regulations.
In 2014, the Statements on page 188.
Groups US legal entities made contributions auditor is not engaged by us to carry out amounting in aggregate to $1,650,200 any non-audit work in respect of which it Changes in share capital 2013: $1,147,950 to national political might, in the future, be required to express Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share organisations, state-level political party an audit opinion.
As explained more fully in capital during 2014, including details of committees and to campaign committees the Audit Committee Report from page 96, the allotment of new shares under the of various state candidates.
No corporate the Audit Committee has established Companys share plans, are given in Note donations were made at the federal level pre-approval policies and procedures for 22 to the Financial Statements on page 169. and all contributions were made only where audit and non-audit work permitted to be allowed by US federal and state law.
We carried out by the external auditor and has Directors shareholdings publicly disclose details of our corporate US carefully monitored the objectivity and The Articles require each Director to be the political contributions, which can be found independence of the external auditor beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares in the on our website, www.
Company with an aggregate nominal value responsibility transparency.
The annual of $125 which currently represents at least corporate contributions budget is reviewed Directors Report 500 shares because each Ordinary Share and approved by the Deputy General The Directors Report, which has been has a nominal value of $0.25.
Such holding Counsel, North America, the US Viceprepared in accordance with the must be obtained within two months of the President, Corporate Affairs and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, date of the Directors appointment.
At 31 President of our US business to ensure comprises the following sections December 2014, all of the Directors robust governance and oversight.
US complied with this requirement and full citizens or individuals holding valid green Corporate Governance Report details of each Directors interests in shares cards exercised decision making over the Audit Committee Report of the Company are set out in Directors contributions and the funds were not Development Pipeline interests in shares on page 112.
Information provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal Responsible Business about the shareholding expectations of the entity.
Such contributions do not constitute Shareholder Information Remuneration Committee in respect of political donations or political expenditure for Corporate Information Executive Directors and SET members the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and the Board in respect of Non-Executive and were made without any involvement and has been signed on behalf of Directors is also set out in Directors of persons or entities outside the US.
interests in shares on page 112.
Significant agreements The Board considers this Annual Report, Political donations There are no significant agreements to taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries which the Company is a party that take and understandable, and provides the made any EU political donations or incurred effect, alter or terminate on a change of necessary information for shareholders any EU political expenditure in 2014 and they control of the Company following a takeover to assess AstraZenecas performance, do not intend to do so in the future in respect bid.
There are no persons with whom we business model and strategy.
of which shareholder authority is required, or have contractual or other arrangements, for which disclosure in this Annual Report is who are deemed by the Directors to be A C N Kemp required, under the Companies Act 2006. essential to our business.
Company Secretary However, to enable the Company and its 5 February 2015 subsidiaries to continue to support interest Use of financial instruments groups or lobbying organisations concerned The Notes to the Financial Statements, with the review of government policy or law including Note 25 from page 174, include reform without inadvertently breaching the further information on our use of financial Companies Act 2006, which defines political instruments.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 95
