Strategic Report Strategy Governance and Remuneration How our governance supports the delivery of our strategy Governance Good governance is crucial to ensuring we are well managed and can deliver our strategic priorities The Board Nomination and Audit Committee Governance Committee Chairman: Leif Johansson Chairman: Rudy Markham Senior independent Non-Executive Director: John Varley Chairman: Leif Johansson To deliver the Groups strategy, we must have sound financial Directors are collectively responsible for the success of Talented people are critical to and non-financial controls.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are the delivery of the Groups Audit Committee is responsible responsible for exercising independent and objective judgement strategy.
The Nomination and for reviewing our financial and for scrutinising and challenging management.
Governance Committees role reporting, internal controls, is to recommend new Board The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, compliance with laws and our appointments to the Board and oversight of risk and corporate governance and monitoring relationship with our external to consider, more broadly, progress towards meeting our annual plans.
It is accountable to auditor, as well as risk succession planning to senior our shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and our management.
executive management and long-term success and represents the interests of all stakeholders.
The Nomination The Board has delegated some of its powers to four principal and Governance Committee committees and the CEO.
also advises the Board on significant developments in Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on the corporate governance.
Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Corporate Governance Report from page 86 Report from page 86 from page 96 Remuneration Elements of remuneration We seek to create sustainable growth in shareholder value by developing and executing a remuneration strategy that supports the successful Base pay Variable remuneration Short Term Incentive, or annual bonus, performance measures are implementation of our business strategy.
drawn from a Group scorecard, which is closely aligned to our strategic priorities.
The measures are considered by the To be sufficient but no To align the interests of our The progress and success of our business strategy will be measured Remuneration Committee and updated annually more than necessary to Executive Directors with those against three key areas: Achieve scientific leadership: Return to growth: and attract, retain and develop of our shareholders over the Achieve Group financial targets.
During 2014, the Remuneration Committee Long Term Incentive LTI Plans comprise the PSP and the AZIP.
Currently, LTI awards are granted with a split between the two plans in the high-calibre talent to achieve short, medium and long term reviewed the Groups shortand long-term performance incentive plans ratio 75% PSP and 25% AZIP our business strategy for the Executive Directors and senior management to ensure that they supported the delivery of these goals.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan AZIP performance measures are designed to align The key components of our remuneration strategy for Executive Directors senior managements interests to the are set out here.
Groups longer-term financial performance over a four-year performance period with a four-year holding period AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan PSP performance measures are designed to align to financial and strategic objectives over a three-year performance period.
For awards granted from 2015, a two-year holding period for Executive Directors applies.
For more information on Performance measures, please Performance measures see Strategic priorities from page 18 and Key performance Achieve Group Return to growth Achieve scientific Total shareholder Cash flow Dividend per Dividend cover financial targets leadership return share indicators from page 20 Directors Remuneration Report from page 100 26 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Remuneration Committee Science Committee CEO: Pascal Soriot Gender split of Directors Chairman: John Varley Chairman: Nancy Rothwell The Senior Executive Team SET comprises CEO We seek to attract, retain and Achieving scientific leadership CFO develop the highest-calibre is key to our strategic success.
Nine Executive Vicetalent while paying no more than The Science Committee Presidents from acrossthe is necessary.
The Groups provides assurance to the organisation, representing shortand long-term incentive Board regarding the Groups HR, GPPS, Operations & IS, plans are closely linked to our R&D activities by reviewing Commercial Regions and strategic and financial goals, and assessing our approaches Mal Mal e 9e 9 Fem Fa ele m4 ale 4 R&D science units and the delivery of sustainable in our chosen therapy areas: General Counsel shareholder value.
The the scientific technology and Key roles Chief Compliance Officer Remuneration Committee R&D capabilities we deploy: is responsible for the Groups the quality and development Chairman remuneration policy, which of our scientists: and our The SET is the body through Leadership, operation and supports the delivery of decision making.
which the CEO exercises the governance of the Board, ensuring our strategy.
authority delegated to him by Board effectiveness the Board.
It considers major business issues and makes CEO recommendations to the CEO, Responsible to the Board for the and typically reviews matters that management, development and are to be submitted to the Board performance of the business for its consideration.
The CEO is Senior independent responsible for establishing and Non-Executive Director chairing the SET.
Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for other Directors and shareholders Directors Remuneration Corporate Governance Biographies of SET when necessary Report from page 100 Report from page 86 members on pages 30 to 31 Variable remuneration Short Term Incentive, or annual bonus, performance measures are drawn from a Group scorecard, which is closely aligned to our strategic priorities.
The measures are considered by the To align the interests of our Remuneration Committee and updated annually Executive Directors with those of our shareholders over the Long Term Incentive LTI Plans comprise the PSP and the AZIP.
Currently, LTI awards are granted with a split between the two plans in the short, medium and long term ratio 75% PSP and 25% AZIP AstraZeneca Investment Plan AZIP performance measures are designed to align senior managements interests to the Groups longer-term financial performance over a four-year performance period with a four-year holding period AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan PSP performance measures are designed to align to financial and strategic objectives over a three-year performance period.
Performance measures Achieve Group Return to growth Achieve scientific Total shareholder Cash flow Dividend per Dividend cover financial targets leadership return share AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 27
