Governance Clinical Governance and Safety Committee Report Dear Shareholder The work of this Committee, in On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our first Report of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee the Committee overseeing the delivery of clinical or CGSC since Spire was admitted to the London Stock Exchange in July 2014. governance, patient safety and COMMITTEE PURPOSE care quality, is central to the The Groups mission is to bring together the best people, dedicated to developing excellent clinical environments and delivering the success of Spire Healthcare.
The CGSC oversees, reviews and monitors the quality of our clinical services with the aim of ensuring that the highest standards of governance are consistently met and that clinical outcomes, patient safety and patient experience continuously improve in support of this mission.
The Committee also has an important role in identifying areas of clinical risk, and of ensuring that controls are in place to mitigate such risk as far as possible.
Close links between the CGSC and the Audit and Risk Committee have been developed to support the Companys robust approach to risk management.
Professor Dame Janet Husband Chair, Clinical Governance and Safety Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Other members: Tony Bourne, Garry Watts, Rob Roger Since listing, the Committee has been reconstituted, bringing together non-executive directors and senior management to further develop a sound framework of clinical governance within Spire.
With my recent, relevant and broad clinical experience, acquired during a long medical career, I have the required experience to chair this Committee of the Board.
The CGSC members during the period since Admission were: Dame Independent Janet Husband Non-Executive Director Committee Chair Tony Bourne Independent Non-Executive Director Rob Roger Chief Executive Officer Garry Watts Group Chairman Members biographies and details of Committee attendance are on pages 56 and 57, and page 64, respectively.
The Group Company Secretary, or his appointed nominee, is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee operates in an inclusive manner.
The Companys Group Medical Director and Chief Nursing Officer attend each meeting, with other management and Board members invited, as appropriate.
This openness supports the quality and transparency of the Committees work and the communication of its deliberations with the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board and the hospitals executive management teams.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee will meet eight times in 2015, in accordance with its terms of reference, with meetings scheduled to take place before each Board meeting, so that there is a timely flow of information on clinical governance matters to the Board.
From the above meetings schedule, the Committee will hold four meetings at Spires head office in London, and four in a designated Spire hospital, thereby providing the opportunity for the Committee to meet Hospital Directors, matrons and other front-line staff and to tour the hospital facilities.
This will aid a ward to Board approach to clinical governance and also permits the hospital management team to present its own strategic developments and challenges and to focus on specific aspects of clinical governance relevant to its own experience.
70 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES PERSONAL EXPERIENCE The Committee reviews a number of standing items, including: In order to better understand the business, culture and ethos within Spires diverse group of hospitals, I am also undertaking a programme the Group Medical Directors Review of performance, in the form of informal visits to all of our hospitals.
These visits will enable me of a Clinical Governance and Safety Report, and, on a quarterly to engage more closely with senior clinical and managerial staff basis, a review of Serious Adverse Events: and to be visible as Chair of the CGSC.
In 2014, I visited 13 of health and safety: our 39 hospitals and plan to complete my tour during 2015. information governance: and These hospital visits have allowed me to question the hospital management teams on various issues, to learn about their aspirations whistleblowing.
and challenges, and to gather ideas and suggestions that may have In 2014, the Committee developed its strategy, which not only an impact on the future strategy of both the Committee and the focuses on monitoring clinical performance and trends in practice, Group.
I have also learnt an enormous amount about the complexity but also on a programme of themed reviews to address key strategic and variety of Spires healthcare business and of the influences that quality areas in a rolling agenda over the next two years.
drive change and development in the local environment.
Themed reviews planned for 2015 include: Equally important, I have been able to talk to individual patients on a one-to-one basis and have learnt about their experience of being a programme of preparation and training for the new CQC a patient at a Spire hospital and how they viewed the quality of inspections regime: care they have received.
a review of our complaints process and its compliance with I am pleased to report that the feedback from the patients I have national guidance: met has been overwhelmingly positive.
a review of Spires in-house clinical review process of individual TERMS OF REFERENCE AND EVALUATION hospitals, which will enable us to benchmark our hospitals against The Committee operates under formal terms of reference that were well-defined standards: and approved by the Board during the year.
The terms of reference are a review of the quality of service provided by resident medical available on the Groups website www.
officers at each of our 39 hospitals.
Within these terms, the Committee and its individual members are We will also undertake specific deep dives to investigate compliance empowered to obtain outside legal or other independent professional with best practice guidance and to take action where needed.
advice at the cost of the Group.
Such powers were not required This approach will ensure that the Committee has a detailed during the period.
understanding of contemporary clinical issues and of the As the Committee has only been in existence for a short period of challenges of delivering the highest standards of modern time, an evaluation of its performance has not been undertaken.
The first evaluation is scheduled for 2015.
2014 ACTIVITIES Details of the risk management and internal control processes The Committee held two meetings at head office and one off-site are contained on pages 48 to 51. meeting in 2014.
The Committee believes that it has received sufficient, relevant and Apart from standing review activities, the Committee conducted reliable information from management and the clinical executive its first themed review, examining the clinical governance structure team to enable us to discharge our responsibilities.
across Spire, information flows, the escalation of issues through the executive management to the Board, and ensuring that FUTURE DEVELOPMENT the structures and processes comply with best practice across In this Report, our aim has been to present information in a healthcare organisations in the UK.
simple and transparent way and I hope that shareholders will find it informative.
In future, the Committee intends to review its clinical governance framework in the light of developing practice on a regular basis.
As Chair of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee, I am committed to ensuring an open dialogue with our shareholders.
If The off-site meeting was held at Spire Bristol Hospital in November.
you have any questions about clinical governance or safety generally, Hospital staff, including management, clinicians and nurses, met or the contents of this report, please contact me via the Company members of the Committee and were able to highlight particular Secretary companysecretary@spirehealthcare.
successes and discuss areas targeted for further improvement.
Members of the Committee were able to see the hospitals levels of The work of this Committee, in maintaining the highest standards care for themselves and to meet the Chair of the hospitals Medical of clinical governance, patient safety and care quality, is central to Advisory Committee and a number of other specialist consultants.
the success of Spire Healthcare.
It is part of a governance structure that seeks to balance central and common standards and processes with the unique circumstances of each of our hospitals.
As a process seeking continuous improvement, I look forward to reporting on our further progress in a years time.
Professor Dame Janet Husband DBE FMedSci, FRCP, FRCR Chair, Clinical Governance and Safety Committee 23 March 2015 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 71
