Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Audit and Risk Committee Report All the members of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee Welcome to the Groups were appointed in July.
In accordance with the UK Code, the Board has determined that the Chairman, Robert Lerwill, has recent and first Audit and Risk relevant financial experience.
The Committee members biographies are on page 57, and its terms Committee Report.
of reference approved by the Board can be found on the Groups website, www.
The Company Secretary, or his deputy, is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee will normally meet at least three times a year.
It met twice in the short period between the IPO and 31 December 2014, with attendance disclosed on page 64.
The Committee normally invites the external auditor and the Chief Financial Officer to attend each meeting and other members of the management team attend as and when invited.
Representatives of the Groups Robert Lerwill external auditor have a private session with the Committee Chair, Audit and Risk Committee Chairman of the Committee.
Other members: Dame Janet Husband, Tony Bourne.
EXTERNAL FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committee is responsible for monitoring, reviewing and challenging the integrity of the financial statements, and ensuring compliance with legal, regulatory and statutory requirements, giving due consideration to the provisions of the UK Code.
The external auditor provided reports for the half-year and year end reporting, including all significant issues, with an assessment of the prudence of managements judgements.
The Committee considered that managements judgements were cautious, but not overly prudent, a view shared by the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
EY proposed no material audit adjustments arising from their audit work, which provided additional comfort to the Committee.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable, and whether it provided the necessary information for the shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, and has affirmed that view to the full Board.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and internal financial controls of the Group, for reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management systems, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditor of the Group and for reporting its findings and recommendations to the Board.
These comprise: receiving and reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and half-yearly financial statements and any public financial announcements, and advising the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable: receiving and reviewing reports from the external auditor, monitoring their effectiveness and independence, and approving their appointment and their terms of engagement: monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management system: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial controls and internal control systems, assessing and advising the Board on the internal financial, operational and compliance controls: and overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and relating to whistleblowing.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 67 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued ACTIVITIES The main activities were as follows: adopting the Committees terms of reference, which are set out on our website: http: investors.
com corporate-governance committees : agreeing the Committees rolling agenda for 2014: approving the terms of engagement of the external auditor, including its remuneration and reviewing its independence: approving the plan for the external audit for 2014: reviewing changes to the Groups capital structure in preparation for the IPO: challenging and reviewing the financial and regulatory reporting relating to the IPO, including the Combined Historical Financial Information included within the Price Range Prospectus: discussing and reviewing the Groups accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements: receiving and approving the Interim Report and the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts: reviewing the systems of internal control, including assessing the requirement for an internal audit function: agreeing the policy for approval of non-audit services provided by the external auditor details are on our website: http: investors.
com corporate-governance committees : considering the adequacy of the risk management systems of the Group: and receiving a report on the IT function and how its risks are managed, with particular focus on IT security.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND MATERIAL JUDGEMENTS The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The table below summarises the matters where the most significant judgements have been made in relation to reporting in 2014.
EY also identified these matters in its audit report, commenting that they had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources and in directing the efforts of the engagement team: Matters Judgement and estimation required How the Committee gained comfort on the matter Revenue recognition The complexity of the pricing structures and the By assessing the internal measures taken in the high volume of procedures undertaken present analytical review of revenues and procedures relating a risk in relation to the accuracy and completeness to the controls over the invoicing process.
In addition, of revenue recognition.
EY tested key manual controls and performed extensive substantive testing, with no issues being noted by it during this work.
Goodwill carrying amounts The carrying value of goodwill was significant By challenging the reasonableness of assumptions 519.1 million as at 31 December 2014.
It is used in impairment calculations by management tested by reference to its value in use, which and the appropriateness of the judgements and involves judgements by management as regards forecasts used the growth rate and discount rate the assumptions used in forecasting cash flows, and reviewing the sensitivity analyses as applied in particular regarding growth rates and the to the key assumptions.
Recognition of deferred tax The reorganisation of the Groups ownership By reviewing the key assumptions adopted by balances structure prior to IPO results in a higher inherent management in the calculation of deferred tax, in risk associated with the calculation of tax balances.
particular the assumptions about the future use or disposal of properties and the deductibility of items There are judgements required in estimating the yet to be approved by the relevant tax authority.
liability to deferred tax on the property portfolio 91.7 million as at 31 December 2014 and in the EY reviewed the tax calculations in detail, testing recognition of deferred tax assets 43.6 million as key assumptions, with no issues being noted.
at 31 December 2014 in accordance with IAS 12, particularly in respect of available losses.
Treatment of costs directly Management has exercised judgement about By reviewing managements approach to identifying attributable to the Groups IPO how the IPO costs are presented in the financial costs as directly attributable to the issue of shares, statements.
Exceptional costs of 54 million, mainly as netted to equity.
related to the IPO, were classified as exceptional, Careful consideration was given by management in accordance with the Groups definition thereof, to the FRC guidance issued on 13 December 2013, and charged to the Income Statement.
Costs arising as regards consistency in reporting exceptional from the IPO directly related to the issue of shares items, as it relates to items arising in 2014.
Particular have not been expensed, but netted to equity in attention was given to the nature and magnitude accordance with IAS 32. of the costs incurred.
68 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information EXTERNAL AUDITOR RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the external An overview of the risk management and internal controls processes auditor and formally reviews the relationship, policies and procedures are contained on pages 48 to 51.
The Committee, with the assistance to ensure independence.
of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee CGSC which focuses on key non-financial risks, including patient and clinical risks, The Committee adheres to the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical carried out the following: Standard 3, which requires the rotation of the audit partner for listed companies every five years.
EY has audited the financial statements reviewed the work carried out by the CGSC in relation to the risks of Spire since 2008 under the same audit engagement partner, David within its remit: Hales and, therefore, his term will end in 2015.
As a FTSE 250 Group, reviewed the Groups system of internal control: we will comply with the new provisions requiring an audit tender at least every 10 years and our approach to this will be considered monitored the risks and associated controls over the financial further in 2015. reporting processes, including the process by which the Groups financial statements are prepared for publication: and As noted, we reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor.
We did this by: reviewed reports from the external auditor on any issues identified during the course of its work, including a report reviewing its proposed plan for the 2014 audit: on control weaknesses.
discussing the results of its audit, including its views about The overall risk management framework, including the Boards material accounting issues and key judgements and estimates, appetite for risk and the underlying process for capturing and and its audit report: reporting risk and control data, will be reviewed by the Board reviewing the quality of the people and service provided by EY: and and its Committees during 2015 to ensure, as far as possible, that changes to reflect the new regulatory environment and evaluating all of the relationships between the external auditor and best practice are incorporated.
the Group, to determine whether these impair, or appear to impair, the auditors independence.
WHISTLEBLOWING The Committee also continued its monitoring and oversight of the NON-AUDIT SERVICES AND INDEPENDENCE procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of qualifying The details of our policy in relation to non-audit services are set disclosures by staff.
In summary, there are certain services The Group offers its staff an independent and confidential service, termed excluded services that are not permitted to be provided where staff may register any concerns about any wrongdoing or by the external auditor, including where the auditor may be required safety at work.
The General Counsel is, as Whistleblowing Officer, to audit its own work, would participate in activities that would responsible for the investigation of any concerns arising and normally be undertaken by management or is remunerated through reporting directly to the Committee.
ACCOUNTABILITY Total non-audit services provided by EY to the Group for the year At the year-end, following a detailed review by the Committee of ended 31 December 2014 totalled 0.5 million.
The majority of the the Corporate Risk Register and the principal risks drawn from it, services related to the IPO in July 2014.
IPO services are typically consideration of reports on the operation of the risk management performed by auditors, as they are mostly assurance-related: the fee and internal control systems from senior management, the results was not contingent or success-based.
Excluding the fees in relation of all external audit, review and inspection activity and all reported to the IPO, non-audit fees principally related to tax advisory and risk events, the directors confirmed that no material failings or compliance services and they represent less than 20% of the recurring weaknesses were identified.
base fee and will remain subject to scrutiny and approval by the ANNUAL EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEES PERFORMANCE Committee.
A full breakdown of non-audit fees paid during the year As the Committee has only been in existence for a short period is disclosed within note 12 to the financial statements on page 109. of time, an evaluation of its performance has not been undertaken.
The Committee considers the requirements of the UK Code and The first evaluation is scheduled for 2015. the appropriateness of tendering the external audit contract as On behalf of the Committee part of normal business practice.
Based on an ongoing assessment, for example, of the quality of the external auditors report to the Robert Lerwill Committee and the audit partners interaction with the Committee, Chair, Audit and Risk Committee the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and 23 March 2015 effectiveness of the audit.
The Committee, therefore, has not considered it necessary to require the audit to be put to tender.
The Committee has recommended, and the Board has agreed, that, subject to shareholder approval, EY will be reappointed at the 2015 AGM.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 69
