Governance Nomination Committee Report THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee did not The Nomination Committee the Committee must have at least three members, of which a majority must be independent meet in the period following non-executive directors.
The Board appoints the Chairman of the Committee, who must be either the Chairman of the Board or an Admission, as the appointments independent non-executive director.
During the year, I was appointed to the role of Chairman of the Committee, though, in my absence, of all independent non-executive the Committee will be chaired by an independent non-executive director.
The Company Secretary or, in his absence, the Deputy directors took place at the Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets as and when required, but did not meet in the period following the IPO, as the appointments of all independent non-executive directors were made on the same date and there was no immediate requirement for further consideration of the Boards diversity of skill and experience, nor that of succession planning at the Board and below.
Meetings of the Committee are scheduled to take place twice in 2015 and the Committee will invite other senior executives to assist their discussions.
John Gildersleeve The meetings will consider any standing items of business, together Chair, Nomination Committee with ad hoc discussion between Committee meetings in the event Other members: Dame Janet Husband, of new director recruitment and I will report the outcome of our Robert Lerwill, Rob Roger meetings to the Board.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference, which were reviewed and approved by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
The Committee and its members are also empowered to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice at the cost of the Group in relation to its deliberations which were not exercised during the period and to secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other parties, should it be considered necessary.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that the Group has the best possible leadership and a clear plan for both executive and non-executive director succession.
Its prime focus is, therefore, to concentrate upon the strength of the Board, for which appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post.
The Nomination Committee advises the Board on these appointments, and also on retirements and resignations from the Board, and its other Committees.
The Committees key objectives can be found on page 63.
72 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information BOARD COMPOSITION SENIOR MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION All the executive and independent non-executive directors have During 2015, it is anticipated that the executive directors will submit served at a very senior level in global and UK-based organisations, succession plans in respect of senior executives to the Board for have international experience across a variety of industries, and most review.
The Board also actively seeks to meet with key executives have financial experience.
At present, one of the seven executive and throughout the Group in order to gain a greater understanding of the independent non-executive directors is female.
breadth and depth of management talent.
During 2015, this process will be augmented to include a series of formal presentations to the It should be noted that in Lord Davies original recommendation Board by relevant members of the executive management team, on Women on Boards, he stated that listed companies in the and of the senior leadership team.
This will allow members of the FTSE 100 should aim for a minimum of 25% female Board member Committee to adopt a more informed approach to the requirements representation by 2015.
He also recommended that FTSE 350 of Board and or Group succession planning in 2015. companies should be setting their own challenging targets and expected that many would achieve a much higher figure than COMMITTEE EVALUATION this minimum.
We note this requirement and aim to move As the Committee has only been in existence for a short period of towards this target as soon as practicable.
time and did not meet in 2014, an evaluation of its performance has not been undertaken.
The first evaluation is scheduled for 2015.
PROCESS FOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS When considering Board recruitment, the Committee will draw up RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS a specification for a director, taking into consideration the balance The Committee met in March 2015 and reviewed the continuation of skills, knowledge and experience of its existing Board members, in office, and potential re-appointment, of all members of the Board.
the diversity of the Board, the independence of continuing Board Following this review, the Committee recommended to the Board members, together with the ongoing requirements and strategic that all directors should be re-appointed, and hence all directors development of the Group.
The search process can then focus on will seek re-election at the AGM.
appointing a candidate with a balance of skills that will enhance On behalf of the Nomination Committee the Board.
John Gildersleeve The Committee will utilise the services of an executive search firm Chair, Nomination Committee to identify appropriate candidates, ensuring that the search firm 23 March 2015 appointed does not have any other connection with the Group.
In addition, the Committee will only use those firms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
A long list of potential appointees will then be reviewed, followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview, based upon the objective criteria identified at inception.
Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees will have sufficient time to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
The Committee will then recommend a preferred candidate and the directors not on the Committee will meet the candidate.
Following these meetings, and assuming acceptance, the Committee will make a formal recommendation to the Board on the appointment.
Wherever possible, the Nomination Committee will arrange for all directors to meet the preferred candidate.
BOARD SUCCESSION The Committee will regularly examine succession planning based on the Boards balance of skills and overall diversity.
Led by the Committee, succession planning of the Board will form an integral part of the Boards annual strategy meeting.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 73
