Governance Corporate governance COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Group complies with the UK CODE The Group has complied with, and will continue to comply with, the UK Corporate Governance Code, principles and code provisions of the UK Code, except as described below, from the date of Admission.
Independence is determined by ensuring that, apart from receiving their fees for acting as directors or owning shares, non-executive directors do not have any other material relationship or additional remuneration from, or transactions with, the Group, its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, which in the judgement of the Board may affect, or could appear to affect, their independence of judgement.
The UK Code recommends that at least half the Board of Directors of a UK-listed company, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances that may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The Group complies with this recommendation of the UK Code, notwithstanding that Simon Rowlands and Dr Supraj Rajagopalan are not independent, as they have been nominated to act as non-executive directors by Cinven Funds, the principal shareholder who entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company on 7 July 2014.
Under the terms of that agreement, for as long as they and their associates control in excess of 30% of the votes able to be cast, they are entitled to appoint two non-executive directors.
When Cinven Funds control between 15% and 30% of votes, they will be entitled to appoint one non-executive director.
They control 48.35% of votes as at 23 March 2015.
The directors believe that the terms of the Relationship Agreement will enable the Group to carry on its business independently of Cinven Funds.
The UK Code also recommends that the Chairman of the Board of Directors should meet the independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment.
Garry Watts was not independent on appointment, having previously served as executive chairman of Spire.
Following his appointment as non-executive chairman, Garry is responsible for the leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board and setting the Boards agenda, but he is no longer responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Simon Rowlands and Dr Supraj Rajagopalan are partners at Cinven Funds, which controls 48.35% of the voting rights in the Company as at 23 March 2015.
Save as set out in the paragraph above, there are no actual or potential conflicts of interest between any duties owed by the directors or senior management to the Company and their private interests or other duties.
60 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Garry Watts Rob Roger Chairman Chief Executive Officer The Chairman leads the Board.
He is responsible for: The Chief Executive Officer manages the Group.
He is responsible for: the leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board: developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration a clear structure for the operation of the Board and and approval by the Board: its Committees: day-to-day management of the Groups operations: setting the Board agenda in conjunction with the Company Secretary and Chief Executive: and the application of the Groups policies: ensuring that the Board receives accurate, relevant and timely the implementation of the agreed strategy: and information about the Groups affairs.
being accountable to, and reporting to, the Board on the performance of the business.
John Gildersleeve Daniel Toner Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director General Counsel and Group Company Secretary The Board nominates one of the non-executive directors The Company Secretary supports the Chairman on Board corporate to act as senior independent director.
He is responsible for: governance matters.
He is responsible for: being an alternative contact for shareholders at Board level other planning the agenda for the annual cycles of Board than the Chairman: and Committee meetings: acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: making appropriate information available to the Board in a timely manner: if required, being an intermediary for non-executive directors concerns: ensuring an appropriate level of communication between the Board and its Committees: undertaking the annual Chairmans performance evaluation: and ensuring an appropriate level of communication between senior when required, leading the recruitment process management and the non-executive directors: for a new Chairman.
keeping the Board appraised of developments in relevant legislative, regulatory and governance matters: and facilitating a new directors induction and assisting with professional development, as required.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group rests The non-executive directors bring a wide range of skills and with the Board of Directors.
The independent non-executive directors represent a strong, independent element on the Board and are well The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy issues placed to constructively challenge and support management.
They and is responsible for: help to shape the Groups strategy, scrutinise the performance of leadership of the Group: management in meeting the Groups objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
implementing and monitoring effective controls to assess and manage risk: Their role is also to satisfy themselves with regard to the integrity of the Groups financial information and to ensure that the supporting the executive management team to formulate Groups internal controls and risk management systems are robust and execute the Groups strategy: and defensible.
monitoring the performance of the Group: and The independent non-executive directors oversee the adequacy setting the Groups values and standards.
of the risk management and internal control systems from their membership of the Audit and Risk Committee and Clinical There is a specific schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
Governance and Safety Committee CGSC, as well as the THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER remuneration for the executive directors from their membership The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the of the Remuneration Committee.
Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and was reviewed As members of the Nomination Committee, the non-executive and approved by the Board during the Admission process.
directors also play a pivotal role in Board succession planning and the appointment of new executive directors.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 61 Governance Corporate governance continued YOUR BOARD IN 2014 THE BOARDS PLAN FOR 2015 Since the date of Admission, the Board met on four scheduled It is planned that the Board will convene on eight formal scheduled occasions including one by telephone conference for the year occasions including one by telephone conference during 2015, as ended 31 December 2014. well as holding any necessary ad hoc Board and Committee meetings to consider non-routine business.
The agenda at scheduled meetings in 2014 covered standing agenda items, including: a review on the Groups performance by the Chief The Chairman and the other non-executive directors are scheduled Executive Officer, the current months and YTD financial statistics to meet on their own without the executive directors present.
by the CFO and a report from the Chair of the Clinical Governance In addition, the non-executive directors will also meet without and Safety Committee including a clinical performance report.
In the Chairman present to discuss matters such as the addition, the Board received a verbal report from other Committee Chairmans performance.
Chairmen, where the Committee met immediately in advance of the The Board will maintain its focus on the Groups pursuit of its scheduled Board meeting, and the Board regularly received reports 2015 targets and, during the year, its activities will include: on legal and statutory matters.
review and approve the 2014 Annual Report: Also in 2014, the Board focused upon major elements of the Groups operations by: review the proposed final dividend for 2014: reviewing, and approving, the Groups five-year Strategic Plan: approve the 2015 Annual Operating Plan: considering a draft 2015 Annual Operating Plan: and consider specific major themes: receiving, reviewing and approving major capital review the risk management framework: and expenditure proposals.
follow a rolling agenda, ensuring proper time for strategic debate.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and The Board will enhance and streamline information flows to the delegates certain matters to Committees, as outlined elsewhere.
Board and Committees via an on-line portal with Board documents, Specific matters reserved for the Board considered during the period briefing papers and a library of relevant information about the to 31 December 2014 included: reviewing the Groups performance Group and its activities, will meet the senior leadership across the monthly and YTD : approving capital expenditure: setting and Group and will review the delegation of its authority, as appropriate.
approving the Groups strategy and annual budget: and a review of the draft dividend policy.
Furthermore, the Board will consider clinical safety matters and maintain overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes via the relevant Board Committees.
SHARE SCHEMES COMMITTEE In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to the Share Schemes Committee, which operates in accordance with the delegation of authority agreed by the Board.
Committee Role Chair of Committee Membership Share Schemes To facilitate the administration Any member.
Committee of the Companys share schemes.
62 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Garry Watts Chairman Key objectives: ensure effectiveness of the Board: promote high standards of corporate governance: ensure clear structure for the operation of the Board and its Committees: and encourage open communication between all directors.
THE BOARD OF SPIRE HEALTHCARE GROUP PLC The Board comprises nine directors the non-executive Chairman, Garry Watts: the Chief Executive Officer, Rob Roger: the Chief Financial Officer, Simon Gordon: and six non-executive directors, four of whom are deemed to be independent for the purposes of the UK Code.
Daniel Toner serves the Board as General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Key objectives: leads the Group: oversees the Groups system of risk management and internal controls: supports the executive management team to formulate and execute the Groups strategy: monitors the performance of the Group: and sets the Groups values and standards.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CLINICAL GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND SAFETY COMMITTEE Tony Bourne, Tony Bourne, the Chairman, Dame Janet Husband, Robert John Gildersleeve, Dame Janet Husband: Chief Executive Officer: Lerwill, Chief Executive Officer: Robert Lerwill: Chair is Robert Lerwill.
Chair is Dame Janet Husband.
Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: promotes, on behalf of the advises the Board on determines the appropriate monitors the integrity of Board, a culture of highappointments, retirements remuneration packages for financial reporting: and quality and safe patient care: and resignations from the the Chairman, executive assists the Board in its monitors specific nonBoard and its Committees: directors and Company review of the effectiveness financial risks and their and Secretary: and of the Groups internal associated processes, reviews succession planning recommends and monitors control and risk policies and controls: for the Board.
the level and structure for management systems.
i clinical and regulatory risks: other senior management ii health and safety: and remuneration.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM The Group also operates an executive management team convened and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The team generally meets weekly as operational activities allow and its members are as follows: Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Group Company Secretary, Group Medical Director, Investor Public Relations Director, Commercial Director and Business Development Director.
Key objectives: assists the Chief Executive Officer in discharging his responsibilities: ensures a direct line of authority from any member of staff to the Chief Executive Officer: and assists in making executive decisions affecting the Company.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 63 Governance Corporate governance continued BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The attendance of the directors who served between the date of Admission, 23 July 2014, and 31 December 2014, at the Board and principal Committee meetings held during this period, is shown in the table below.
The number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Committees Clinical Governance 1 Board Audit and Risk and Safety Nomination Remuneration Chairman Garry Watts 4 4 3 3 Deputy Chairman John Gildersleeve 4 4 3 3 Executive Directors Rob Roger 4 4 3 3 Simon Gordon 4 4 Non-Executive Directors Tony Bourne 4 4 2 2 3 3 3 3 Robert Lerwill 4 4 2 2 3 3 Dame Janet Husband 4 4 2 2 3 3 Simon Rowlands 3 4 Dr Supraj Rajagopalan 3 4 1 The Nomination Committee has to ensure the best possible leadership and, as the on-executive directors were appointed for the first time on 24 June 2014, there has been no meeting of this Committee in 2014 two meetings have been scheduled in 2015.
To the extent that directors are unable to attend scheduled meetings, The Board considers that half of the Board is independent of or additional meetings called on short notice, they will receive the management and free from any business or other relationship papers in advance and relay their comments to the Chairman for that could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chairman will follow up after Simon Rowlands and Dr Supraj Rajagopalan are remunerated by the meeting in relation to the decisions taken.
Cinven Funds and are not considered to be independent.
EFFECTIVENESS As the Chairman was previously the executive chairman prior BOARD COMPOSITION to Admission, he did not satisfy the independence criteria on The Board seeks to ensure that both it and its Committees have the his appointment to the Board.
John Gildersleeve was appointed appropriate range of skills, experience, independence and knowledge as the Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman.
of the Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 56 and 57. and responsibilities effectively: for example, the 2015 Board calendar includes Board development training sessions on the role and APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD regulatory powers of the CQC.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nomination Committee.
The Committee will follow a formal, The number of non-executive directors and their range of skills and rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of experience were carefully reviewed and agreed as part of the IPO new directors to the Board.
Further information is set out process.
The continuing requirements and the number of directors, in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 72 and 73. together with the Groups succession plans, will form part of the Nomination Committee activities and the Boards evaluation process in 2015.
The Board considers its size and composition to be appropriate for the current requirements of the business.
Committee composition is set out in the relevant Committee reports.
No-one other than Committee Chairs and members of the Committees is entitled to participate in meetings of the Audit and Risk, Nomination, Remuneration and Clinical Governance and Safety Committees, unless by invitation of the Committee Chair.
64 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information TIME COMMITMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The UK Code requires main principle B.
6 that the Board should The Chairman and non-executive directors each have a letter undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance of appointment, which sets out the terms and conditions of their and that of its Committees and individual directors.
An indication of the anticipated time commitment is As the date of Admission was 23 July 2014, the Board had not yet provided in any recruitment role specification, and each directors had sufficient time working together for an evaluation of their letter of appointment provides details of the meetings that they performance to be sufficiently wide-ranging across the full business are expected to attend.
Non-executive directors are required to set aside sufficient time to Hence, no Board evaluation was performed in 2014. prepare for meetings, and to regularly refresh and update their skills and knowledge.
In signing their letters of appointment, all directors The Board will undertake an informal evaluation of its performance, have consequently agreed to commit sufficient time for the proper and that of its Committees, in 2015. performance of their responsibilities, acknowledging that this will ELECTION OF DIRECTORS vary from year to year, depending on the Groups activities.
All the directors offer themselves for election at the first AGM and, Directors are expected to attend all Board and Committee meetings, in future, will be re-elected in accordance with the requirements and any additional meetings, as required.
Each directors other of the UK Code.
The biographical details of each of the directors significant commitments were disclosed to the Board at the time are set out in the 2015 Notice of AGM.
The Board believes that each of their appointment and they are required to notify the Board of of the directors standing for election is effective and demonstrates any subsequent changes.
The Group has reviewed the availability commitment to their respective roles.
Accordingly, the Board of the non-executive directors and considers that each of them is recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount of time proposed at the 2015 AGM relating to the election of the directors.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES INDUCTION AND TRAINING The directors of the Group have the benefit of a third-party An induction programme was used in 2014 for the initial introduction indemnity provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies of all non-executive directors to the Groups activities.
Act 2006, in the Groups Articles of Association.
In addition, directors and officers of the Group are covered by directors and officers Generally, reference materials are provided, including information liability insurance.
about the Board, its Committees, directors duties, procedures for dealing in the Groups shares and other regulatory and governance DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST matters, and directors are advised of their legal and other duties, The Board has established a formal system to authorise situations and obligations as directors of a listed company.
where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Company Secretary ensures that any additional request for Directors declare Situational Conflicts, so that they can be considered information is promptly supplied.
Whilst the Chairman, through for authorisation by the non-conflicted directors.
the Company Secretary, ensures that there is an ongoing process to review any internal or external training and development needs.
In considering a Situational Conflict, these directors act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success As already noted, in the event of a general training need, in-house of the Group, and may impose limits, or conditions, when giving training will be provided to the entire Board.
Necessary and relevant authorisation or, subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
regulatory updates are provided as a standing item at each Board meeting in the Group Company Secretarys report and Board briefing The Company Secretary records the consideration of any conflict by external advisers, where appropriate.
The Board believes that the system it has in place for reporting Situational Conflicts continue INFORMATION AND SUPPORT to operate effectively.
The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely manner, information of an appropriate quality to enable it to adequately discharge its responsibilities.
Papers are provided to the directors in advance of the relevant Board or Committee meeting to enable them to make further enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting, should they so wish.
This also allows directors who are unable to attend to submit views in advance of the meeting.
Outside the Board papers process, the Chief Executive provides written updates to non-executive directors on important business issues, including financial and commercial information.
In addition, relevant updates on shareholder matters including analysts reports are also provided to the Board.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 65 Governance Corporate governance continued ACCOUNTABILITY RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders The Committees report is set out on pages 67 to 69 and identifies and stakeholders in a clear and open manner, and seeks to ensure its members, whose details are set out on pages 56 and 57. effective engagement through the Groups regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
The report describes its work in discharging its responsibilities in the period ended 31 December 2014 and its terms of reference The Group undertakes an ongoing programme of meetings can be found on the Groups website www.
with investors, which is managed by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The majority of meetings with investors RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL are led by them.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal control, and for During the year, there were in excess of 130 individual meetings, reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to manage, rather conference presentations, group lunches and telephone briefings than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and safeguard its assets.
with investors, attended by one or both of the CEO and CFO, No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against supported by the Investor Relations Director, of which 74 were material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed to subsequent to the IPO process.
provide the directors with reasonable assurance that issues are The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairs identified on a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
remain open for discussion with shareholders on matters under The Audit and Risk Committee and the Clinical Governance and their areas of responsibility, either through contacting the Company Safety Committee, whose reports are set out on pages 67 to 69 secretary or directly at the AGM.
and pages 70 and 71, respectively, assist the Board in reviewing The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system and a year, with the publication of its Annual and Half-yearly internal controls, including financial, clinical, operational and Financial Reports.
It also currently issues further trading updates each year with the EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND RISK publication of an Interim Management Statement.
In conjunction Only independent non-executive directors are allowed to serve with these announcements, presentations or teleconference calls on both the Audit and Risk, and Remuneration Committees.
The are held with institutional investors and analysts, and copies of any non-executive directors are, therefore, able to bring their experience presentation materials issued are made available on the Companys and knowledge of the activities of each Committee to bear when website www.
considering the critical judgements of the other.
All directors are expected to attend the Companys AGM, This means that the directors are in a position to consider carefully providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them the impact of incentive arrangements on the Groups risk profile about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting, and to ensure the Groups remuneration policy and programme or informally afterwards.
are structured, so as to accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Group.
FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL RISK Independent non-executive directors serve on the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee, as well as the Chief Executive Officer.
In conjunction with the independent members of the Audit and Risk Committee, both Committees aim to ensure that the control and monitoring of both financial and non-financial risks is satisfactory.
In addition, the Committees, jointly, seek to ensure, as far as practicable, there are no elements omitted or unnecessarily duplicated and that all critical judgements receive the correct level of challenge.
66 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
