SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance.
The following section will detail how the UK Corporate Governance Code has been applied during the year.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION powers of the Board.
During the year one meeting has been held solely for the NonI am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Statement, which contains Executives in the absence of the Chairman.
This has enabled the Non-Executives to details of the activities of the Board and its Committees and how the Group discuss a range of matters with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 for the year ended 27 April As a major employer in the UK we are constantly looking for new talent to join the 2014.
During the year we have attracted new employees, with fresh ideas, by During the year the Board undertook an external evaluation by an independent offering an employee internship scheme.
The scheme is paid and offers interns the consultant, to facilitate an accurate assessment.
The external evaluation was opportunity to work towards cash rewards and permanent roles.
The scheme has also aimed at assisting in the adoption of best practices wherever possible, and already commenced for FY15, extending its remit and now offering internships for up ensures that the Board have complied with the framework provided in the Corporate to 90 people in three key areas of the Group.
Further details on the scheme can be Governance Code.
Aspects assessed during the evaluation included decision found on page 20. making, strategic debate and risk management.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE I have found that the culture and values of the Board are imperative for the The overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal controls purposes of good corporate governance.
The Board were more than willing to assist systems sits with the Board.
This is an on-going process which relates to the the evaluator and the results of his evaluation were positive.
Further information on identification, evaluation, management and monitoring of significant risks.
This the external evaluation can be found on page 29. complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Throughout FY14 we have spent a great deal of time considering how to achieve Lord The Board is subject to the latest Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in Davies target of 25% of board members being female by 2015.
The culture of the September 2012.
The main principles of the Code are: Group is to promote internal training and progression, and ideally we would like to Leadership see our female members of management promoted up to Executive Board levels as Effectiveness and when vacancies arise.
Our Board is extremely diverse and the members mutual Accountability trust and understanding has been vital to the difficult decisions that they have Remunerations reached.
It is essential that any new member of the Board possesses the necessary Relations with Shareholders qualities in order to constructively challenge opinions and fit in with the Boards attitude.
The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance processes and policies, and has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2014 the year the The Groups strategy includes further international expansion, both in-store and Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
We are aware that online is an important growth opportunity and we continue to invest in infrastructure and people to protect our online business.
As online THE BOARD penetration grows, the vulnerability of transactional websites is an issue for all The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, Keith Hellawell, the Executive online retailers.
Expertise in such a rapidly evolving area is also recognised and Deputy Chairman, Mike Ashley, one other Executive Director, and four further Nonvalued by the Board.
The names, skills and short biographies of each member of the Board are set out on page 24.
The Board work together and individually to follow the Groups strategy and further the interests of our shareholders.
The clear leadership by the Board and senior The size and composition of the Board are regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure management team has had a positive impact on the performance of the Group and that there is the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Role of the Board Key topics of discussion throughout the year have included bonus share schemes, The role of the Board is to ensure the overall long-term success of the Group.
This is legal matters, appointments of key individuals and corporate governance matters.
achieved through the review, development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
Additional details of the Groups strategy can be found on page 8.
The Board also maintains responsibility for corporate responsibility, accountability and to ensure effective leadership is delegated to management for the day to day running Ways in which the Board have furthered the interests of shareholders during the of the Group and ensures an appropriate strategy is in place for succession planning.
year include meeting with major investors to discuss our corporate governance procedures, and discussing the qualities required for the Company Secretarial and The Board has a programme in place to enable it to discharge its responsibility of Finance Director positions.
The appointment of our Head of Legal in the Company providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership to the Group within a framework of Secretariat role has ensured that there is a clear flow of information between the prudent and effective controls.
two departments, and that the Board are fully informed of material legal matters The Board plans to meet on a formal basis six times during the year with up to four within the Group as they arise.
An external search consultancy was not used for the additional strategy meetings at convenient times throughout the year when broader appointment as it was concluded that the Head of Legal already had the requisite issues concerning the strategic future of the Group will be discussed.
The Board will knowledge of the Group in order to be best suited to the appointment.
An external meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
During the year the search consultancy has been engaged for the recruitment of the Finance Director Board met on 10 occasions.
The consultancy that have been engaged do not have any interest or formal connection with the Group.
A detailed agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate documentation is provided to Directors in advance of the meeting.
Regular Board meetings provide an As well as holding full Board and Committee meetings, Non-Executive meetings agenda that will include reports from the Chief Executive, reports on the performance have also taken place throughout the year.
The Non-Executive meetings allow the of the business and current trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from Non-Executive Directors to discuss a range of issues without the influence of the Committees of the Board and specific proposals where the approval of the Board Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Simon Bentley, is sought.
The Board will monitor and question monthly performance and review also facilitates the independence of the Board.
Amongst his powers, he is able anticipated results.
to add items to meeting agendas and he is vocal in ensuring a balance in the GOVERNANCE 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where appropriate, and Given the structure of the Board, the fact that the Chairman and Chief Executive roles the Board will consider at least annually the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the are fulfilled by two separate individuals and the terms of the Relationship Agreement meetings of Committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, with Mike Ashley, the Board believes that no individual or small group of individuals unless a conflict of interest arises, to enable all Directors to have oversight of those can dominate the Boards decision making.
matters delegated to Committees, and copies of analysts reports and brokers notes The Non-Executive Directors are provided to Directors.
The Board consists of four Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The role of the In an effort to secure the long-term future of the Group, the Board have created a high Non-Executive Directors is to understand the Group in its entirety and constructively performance culture within the Group by devising Employee Bonus Share Schemes as challenge strategy and management performance, set Executive remuneration levels well as a share scheme for senior members of management.
and ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is in place.
They must also ensure they are satisfied with the accuracy of financial information and that thorough It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure that the accounts are prepared and risk management processes are in place.
Having assessed the current Annual Report, along with the accounts, the Directors confirm that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Non-Executive Directors have excellent experience from a wide range of sectors.
The Directors authorise that these documents provide the necessary information The Non-Executive Directors assist the Board with issues such as governance, internal in order for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and control, remuneration and risk management.
Simon Bentley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He supports the Key Activities Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
Ensuring the long-term success of the Group Considering the obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders The Non-Executive Directors External Appointments Considering the effect the Groups activities have on the environment and Non-Executive Directors are required to disclose prior appointments and other community in which it operates significant commitments to the Board and are required to inform the Board of any Maintaining a high business reputation changes to or additional commitments.
Details of the Non-Executives Directors Maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers and the wider community external appointments can be found on page 24.
There is a formal schedule of matters that require Board approval: they are matters Before accepting new appointments Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain that could have significant strategic, financial or reputational effects on the Group as approval from the Chairman, and the Chairman requires the approval of the whole a whole.
It is essential that no appointment causes a conflict of interest or jeopardises the Non-Executive Directors commitment and time spent with the Group in their Matters Reserved for the Board existing appointment.
Sets budgets The Non-Executive Directors Independence Monitors and reviews strategy and business performance The Group considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in accordance with Approves acquisitions, expansions into other regions countries the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Appointments and removal of Board members Succession planning Each year the Board evaluations consider the independence of each Board member.
Overall responsibility for internal control and risk management as described on The most recent evaluations did not highlight any Directors who lacked independence.
pages 29 to 30 Although the Board have remained constant for some time, the longest-serving member of the Board has been with the Board for seven years, this being less than the The Chairman and Executive Directors nine year period after which independence is questioned.
The division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Conflicts of Interest Board.
However they work closely together to ensure effective decision-making and the The Board has set procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest that arise.
successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
During the year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any and that all Directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the Company.
He transactional conflicts of interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
ensures that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
No Director took part in the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
The Chairman officiates effective communication with shareholders and ensures that the Board understands the views of major investors, and is available to provide advice Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Re-election and support to members of the Executive team.
The Group complies with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and all Directors offer themselves for re-election every year.
The Executive Deputy Chairman is an ambassador for the Company.
He takes the lead in the strategic development of the Company, formulating the vision and strategy The Board have determined that all Directors must put themselves forward for election which he does in conjunction with the Chief Executive.
or re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Retiring Directors may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the do so and if so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
All Directors appointed by Executive Deputy Chairman, whose wholly-owned company, MASH Holdings Limited, the Board are appointed after consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination currently holds approximately 57.7% of the issued share capital of the Company Committee, and those so appointed must stand for reappointment at the following excluding treasury shares.
This agreement is described in the Directors Report on 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Director Charles McCreevy has informed the Board that he will not The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Groups business for the stand for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
His retirement will therefore delivery of the strategy, leading the management team and implementing specific become effective at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
decisions made by the Board to help meet shareholder expectations.
The Chief Executive reports to each Board meeting on all material matters affecting the Groups Details of Executive Directors service contracts, and of the Chairmans and the Nonperformance.
No one individual has unfettered power of decision.
Executive Directors appointment letters, are given on pages 36 to 37.
Copies of service contracts and of appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 29 Executive and Non-Executive - Training and Development AUDIT COMMITTEE All newly appointed Directors are provided with a tailored induction programme based Dear Shareholder, on their existing skills and experience.
The Board is also informed of any material I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the 52 weeks ended 27 April changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and The Audit Committee has an important role to play in effective reporting to our each Director and each Board Committee may take independent professional advice stakeholders and ensuring high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external at the Companys expense, subject to prior notification to the other Non-Executive audit process and this year has seen the introduction of many changes to corporate Directors and the Company Secretary.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors reporting.
This report provides an overview of: Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Performance Evaluation There is a formal process in place for the performance evaluation of the Board, its what the Committee has done during the year, and what is planned for 2015 Committees and individual Directors.
Each Director is given the opportunity to express how it has assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors, including ensuring their views on the organisation and operation of the Board and its Committees, their their independence: and effectiveness and contribution to the business, and on any other matter they consider the Committees opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as a whole.
Membership The evaluator that was selected by the Board was NJMD Corporate Services Limited, The Audit Committee comprises me as Chairman, and all of the independent Nonwhich is a specialist consultancy led by Nigel Davies.
Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on page 24.
All of the members of the Committee are considered BOARD COMMITTEES independent.
To assist the Board with their duties, there are three principal Board Committees, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Meetings The Committees are governed by terms of reference which provide detail of matters The Committee met three times during the year and attendance at those meetings is delegated to each Committee and the authority they have to make decisions.
Full terms shown on page 29 within the Corporate Governance Report.
At the invitation of the of reference are available on request and on the Companys website.
Committee members, the Group Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director attend Committee meetings, as do the external auditors.
After each of its meetings, we met Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year and the with the external auditors, in each case without the presence of Executive Directors or total number of meetings that they could have attended are set out in the table below.
In addition I meet with the auditors as and when it is needed.
All Directors attended all meetings of the Board and of Committees of the Board of which they were members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Board is satisfied that currently no one Director exercises a disproportionate influence.
Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual audit plan and monitoring Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings the same.
1 Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditors and Keith Hellawell 10 10 3 3 4 4 1 1 relationships with them and in particular agreeing and monitoring the extent of the Mike Ashley 4 10 - - - non-audit work that may be undertaken.
Monitoring, making judgements and recommendations on the financial reporting Simon Bentley 10 10 3 3 4 4 1 1 process and the integrity and clarity of the Groups financial statements.
1 1 1 Dave Forsey 10 10 3 3 4 4 1 1 Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control and risk 1 management policies and systems in place.
Dave Singleton 10 10 3 3 4 4 1 1 Monitoring the audit of the annual and consolidated accounts.
1 Claire Jenkins 8 10 3 3 4 4 1 1 Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Charles McCreevy 8 10 3 3 3 4 1 1 What has the Committee done during the year?
2 1 1 Bob Mellors 3 10 1 3 2 4 - Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered the current 1 A number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings were attended by economic climate and its likely impact on the Group.
Board members who were not members of the Committees.
The Board members concerned attended these meetings Considered the reappointment of the auditors.
at the invitation of the Committee members.
Reviewed accounting policies, presentations and the financial statements.
2 Meetings attended by Bob Mellors up until his retirement on 31 December 2013.
Internal Controls During the year the additional Board meetings were also held in order to attend to As one of the fastest-growing retailers with a rapidly expanding overseas and internet urgent matters which arose between scheduled meetings.
Following unscheduled operations, we have many complex operational risks to manage.
meetings all absent members of the requisite Committees subsequently reviewed and endorsed the decisions made.
This ensured that all members could have their thoughts The internal audit reviews led by the long established Retail Support Unit have led the recorded, even though they werent available during the meeting itself.
way, through their audits across the retail operations each year, in providing comfort over the efficiency of controls over the operational procedures and systems which help There were a number of meetings throughout the year which were solely for Nonto generate and report the numbers within the financial statements, and will continue Executives.
Meetings also took place which were attended by Non-Executives, although to do so.
the Non-Executive Chairman was not able to attend.
These meetings enabled the Non-Executives to discuss matters which they perhaps could not discuss with the We are, however, conscious of the rate of growth and complexity taking place and have Executives and or the Non-Executive Chairman present.
therefore recently appointed BDO as internal audit advisers.
BDO have specialists experienced in auditing the strategies and plans put in place to mitigate risks to further strengthen the control environment.
BDO will conduct a review of our key risks and develop a strategic audit plan to provide assurance to the Audit Committee regarding the management of these key risks over the next three to five years.
This plan will be presented to the Audit Committee for approval and agreement of a detailed annual programme.
SD14 AR Inners 25.07. indd 29 25 07 2014 12:33:38 PM GOVERNANCE 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering operational, Reviewed accounting policies, presentations and the financial statements financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Information on the Groups approach Following the revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to financial to internal control and risk management is set out in the Corporate Governance Report years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board asked the Committee to on pages 27 to 32. advise on whether the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for External auditors shareholders to assess the Groups business model, strategy and performance.
The On an annual basis, the Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors Committee reviewed the process for preparing the annual report and accounting and their remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board.
This process included the following key elements: appointed each year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee consider the level of service provided by the auditors and their independence.
Review of new regulations and reporting requirements with external advisers to identify additional information and disclosures that may be appropriate The Committee has recommended the reappointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP Preparation of a detailed timetable and allocation of drafting responsibility to for FY15.
The Committee took a number of factors into account in its assessment relevant internal teams with review by an appropriate senior manager including but not limited to: Provision of an explanation of the requirements of fair, balanced and understandable to those with drafting responsibility the quality and scope of the planning of the audit in assessing risks and how the Monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements and other information external auditors planned to evolve the audit to respond to changes in the business: provided to shareholders to ensure they represented a clear and accurate the quality and timeliness of reports provided to the Committee and the Board: assessment of the Groups financial performance and position the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and the retail Review of significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the sector: financial statements the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around the Group and Review of all sections of the report by relevant external advisers the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which required management Review by senior manager working group responsible for the annual report process judgement.
Interim progress review of process and report content with the Audit Committee The Committees view following this assessment was positive in relation to their Review of a paper presented to the Committee which set out to review the contents evaluation of the work of the external auditors and they felt that high standards had of the annual report and substantiate why it provided a fair, balanced and been maintained.
understandable view of the year under review After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and has confirmed it is fair, balanced and external auditors were effective.
The Committee believes their independence, the objectivity of the external audit Financial reporting and the effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains strong.
This The Committees review of the interim and full year financial statements focused on the is displayed through their robust internal processes, their continuing challenge, following areas of significance: their focused reporting and their discussions with both management and the Audit Acquisition accounting - the Committee provided a robust challenge to Committee.
management over the judgments formed in respect of the accounting for the To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external auditors are required to acquisition of EAG and SIG during the year including the assessment of the fair rotate audit partners for the Group audit every five years and the current lead partner values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
The Committee is satisfied that has been in place for one year.
Under the Corporate Governance Code 2012, audit the related disclosures appropriately reflect these assessments, as well as the services must be put to tender at least every ten years or else we must explain why we underlying strategic rationale have not done so.
Our current auditors, namely Grant Thornton UK LLP, have been in Intangibles impairment assessment - the Committee considered the key place since the listing in February 2007. judgements including the discount rate, long-term growth rate, and the projected future cash flows of each cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated, based The Committee has approved a policy on the engagement of the external auditors upon financial plans approved by the Board.
The Committee is satisfied with the for non-audit work, in order to ensure that the objectivity of the auditors opinion on methodology and assumptions used, and the conclusion that the Groups intangible the Groups financial statements is not or may not be seen to be impaired, and has assets are not impaired established a process to monitor compliance.
Carrying value of inventory - the Committee has reviewed managements paper The policy identified three categories of potential work.
setting out the basis on which the inventory provision is calculated and is satisfied with the reasonableness and consistency of model applied and that stock is held at Auditor Authority Type of Work the lower of cost and net realisable value Work the auditor may not provide The work includes the preparation of accounting The Audit Committee are satisfied with the level of rigor applied by the external as completing the task could entries or financial statements, IT systems design auditors in addressing these areas as part of the audit procedures.
and implementation, management of projects and tax planning where the outcome would have Looking ahead to FY15, with the further assistance that can be expected following the a material impact on the financial statements or appointment of BDO as internal auditors, the Audit Committee will ensure appropriate where the outcome is dependent upon accounting internal control procedures are in place as the Group continues to grow.
Work the auditor may undertake Corporate finance services, acquisition due diligence, with the consent of the Chairman management consultancy and secondment of staff Simon Bentley of the Audit Committee.
other than for the preparation of accounting entries Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director or financial statements.
17 July 2014 Work the auditor may undertake.
There are services that the auditors may provide as the work is clearly audit-related and there is no potential threat to independence, including regulatory reporting and acting as reporting accountants.
The Company is satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements of the Auditing Practices Board.
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 31 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Directors who served on the Committee during the year were: As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I lead the process for the appointment of new Board members, with the overall decision being that of the Board.
We have seen a Dave Singleton Chairman change in the Board over the course of the year following the resignation of Bob Mellors Simon Bentley due to ill health.
Bob had been with the Group for almost 10 years when he resigned Keith Hellawell and the knowledge that he had amassed during that time was invaluable.
The loss Charles McCreevy of Bob by the Group has left a knowledge gap in the Board which will be difficult to Claire Jenkins replace.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board to ensure appropriate levels of pay There are a number of factors that must be taken into account when considering and benefits are in place for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
A key priority is Board appointments, including age, ethnicity and nationality.
Although the targets to ensure that remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve the long-term for diversity of the Davies Report must be awarded appropriate recognition, so must success of the Group.
The Committee ensures that it complies with the requirements of the requirements of the Group.
The Groups expansion into new markets with differing regulatory and governance bodies including the UK Corporate Governance Code whilst customer bases must be awarded appropriate consideration upon appointing new meeting shareholder and employee expectations.
All members of the Committee are Board members, with any new appointee requiring knowledge of the challenges Non-Executive Directors and are considered independent.
involved in breaking into new markets and an awareness of the changing business landscape.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: There is a strategy within the Group for improving the gender imbalance of the Board, Determining the Companys policy on Executive remuneration, including and it is our overall aim to nurture our in-house talent.
However we are open to the design of bonus schemes and targets and payments made thereunder.
recruiting external Board members where specific knowledge cannot be found in-house.
Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and each of the Executive We aim to attract the most number of recruits by utilising a number of different Directors.
recruitment methods including head hunters, word of mouth and advertising.
Monitoring the remuneration of Senior Management and making recommendations in respect thereof.
Members of the Nomination Committee during the year were: Agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any Executive Director.
Keith Hellawell Chairman The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year and met on three Simon Bentley occasions during the year.
Dave Singleton Charles McCreevy A report on the remuneration of Directors appears on pages 33 to 40.
The Nomination Committee will meet at least once a year and will also meet when What has the Committee done during the year?
The Committee met on one occasion during the year, although met Reviewed Executive remuneration to include salaries and bonuses.
informally on a number of further occasions in order to discuss the appointment of Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report contained a replacement Finance Director.
All of the Nomination Committee members are Nonon pages 33 to 40.
Executive Directors and considered independent.
Full details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report on The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: page 38. Review the Boards structure.
Review the composition and make up of the Board, including evaluating the balance Dave Singleton of skills, knowledge and experience of the members of the Board.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Give consideration to succession planning for Directors.
Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any Board 17 July 2014 appointment.
Make recommendations to the Board concerning the standing for reappointment of Directors.
Identify potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, and make recommendations to the Board as the need may arise.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The composition of that Committee and a description of its terms of reference are set out on the Sports Direct International plc website.
The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and the Chief Executive who are not present at meetings when the matter is discussed.
Succession plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee at least once a year.
Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, will usually attend meetings of the Nomination Committee, unless the Nomination Committee is dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of his successor.
The Board believes that the Board and its Committees as currently constituted are working well.
Dr Keith Hellawell QPM Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Board 17 July 2014 GOVERNANCE 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED UK BRIBERY ACT SHARE DEALING CODE The Group has an approved policy in place which was created following the The Group has adopted the Model Code as published in the UK Listing Rules.
introduction of the UK Bribery Act.
As a result of the Act, all policies and procedures Anyone deemed to have insider information must seek consent before dealing in the have been reviewed to ensure that they comply with the Act and measures are in place Groups shares.
to prevent employees accepting bribes.
The Executive Directors require the consent of the Chairman or the Senior Independent BUSINESS MODEL Director and the Chairman requires consent from the Chief Executive and the Senior Our business model, which sets out the basis on which the Company generates or Independent Non-Executive Director.
Any other employees with insider information preserves value over the longer term, and the strategy for delivering the objectives of must gain the consent of the Chief Executive or Company Secretary before dealing in the Company, can be found at pages 7 and 8. the Groups shares.
WHISTLE-BLOWING Details concerning the share capital structure of the Company can be found in the There is a formal whistle-blowing policy in place for employees who wish to raise Directors Report on pages 25 to 26. issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities on a confidential basis.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk management The Board recognise the importance of communicating with shareholders.
This is done systems in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group through the Annual Report and financial statements, interim statements and trading accounts are set out below or cross-referred to other parts of the Annual Report where updates.
All Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting when shareholders relevant.
have the opportunity to ask questions.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent The Chairman and the Chief Executive regularly meet with the Companys institutional of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for shareholders to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance within the maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems, and for reviewing constraints of information already available to the public.
The Senior Independent Nontheir effectiveness.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are Executive Director is also available to meet with shareholders.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failures to achieve the Companys The Companys website is an important method of communication and holds all objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable but material information reported to the London Stock Exchange together with copies of not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
financial reports, interim management statements and trading updates.
ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS RISK During the year members of the Board and senior management have met with A system to identify, assess, and evaluate business risk is embedded within the shareholders in order to discuss their questions and concerns.
The meetings have management processes throughout the Group.
Strategic risks are regularly reviewed by been considered an opportunity not only to recognise the views of shareholders, but the Board.
Risks relating to the key activities within the subsidiary operating units are also for shareholders to fully understand the premise of the business.
meetings that have taken place throughout the year include face to face Non-Executive Further details of the risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups business, and how Director Meetings, telephone discussions, regional visits and overseas visits.
the Group seeks to mitigate these, can be found on pages 10 to 12.
REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and reviewing By Order of the Board remuneration policy and setting remuneration levels.
See Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40.
Cameron Olsen Company Secretary 17 July 2014
