Directors' Report Board of Directors Lord Smith of Kelvin Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Jeremy Beeton CB Katie Bickerstaffe Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality UK UK UK UK UK Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Appointed Energy Supply Appointed Finance Director Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director June 2003.
Chairman since Director in January 2002. in October 2002.
Generation and Supply Director December 2010.
Committee Membership Chairman of the Nomination Member of the Nomination Member of Audit, and Safety, Member of the Nomination Committee: Member of the Committee.
Health and Environment and Remuneration Remuneration Committee.
Background Lord Smith has held a number Alistair has over 17 years Gregor has over 23 years Jeremy was the Director From 2008 to 2012, Katie of senior positions in a range of service with the Group, having service with the Group, having General of the UK Government served as Director of financial services organisations, joined Southern Electric plc joined Scottish Hydro-Electric Olympic Executive, the Marketing, People and including Morgan Grenfell in 1997. plc in 1990. lead government body for Property Dixons.
Private Equity, Morgan Grenfell coordinating the 2012 London Previously he worked for HSBC He is a chartered accountant.
Previously she was Asset Management and Olympics.
and the National Westminster Gregor has SSE Board-level Managing Director of Kwik Deutsche Asset Management.
Bank in corporate finance and responsibility for Finance, Previously Jeremy was Save Ltd and Group Retail He is a chartered accountant business development roles.
Investor Relations, Risk & Principal Vice President Director and Group HR and a past president of Assurance, Procurement & of Bechtel Ltd, where he Director at Somerfield plc.
As Chief Executive, Alistair has the Institute of Chartered Logistics, IT and Corporate had responsibility for the an extensive remit.
He is also Her earlier career included Accountants of Scotland.
management and delivery Chairman of the Executive roles at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo of Bechtels civil engineering He was a member of the Committee.
His direct reports He is the sponsoring Board Inc and Unilever PLC.
projects in infrastructure and Judicial Appointments Board include the Group Finance member for SSEs businesses aviation business lines.
for Scotland and former Director, the MDs Enterprise: in Ireland and Chairman Chairman of the trustees of the Networks: Retail: Wholesale: of 50%-owned Scotia Jeremy is a civil engineer.
and Corporate Affairs, and the Gas Networks Ltd. Director of Human Resources.
Key appointments Chairman of: UK Green Director of Energy UK.
Non-Executive Director Member of the Court of Chief Executive, UK and Investment Bank plc: of Stagecoach Group plc.
Glasgow 2014 Limited, the Sits on the Advisory Board organising committee for of PwC, the Supervisory Board the Commonwealth Games.
of Imtech and is Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Merseylink Ltd. Standard Bank Group Ltd Non-Executive Director in South Africa.
of A Proctor Group Ltd. 60 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Sue Bruce Richard Gillingwater CBE Peter Lynas Lady Rice CBE Thomas Thune Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Andersen Director Non-Executive Director UK UK UK USA and UK Denmark Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director from Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director 1 September 2013.
Director from July 2007 to Thomas is stepping down July 2012.
Susan is stepping from the Board at the down from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on General Meeting on 17 July 2014.
Member of the Safety, Chairman of the Audit Joins the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
Member as Chairman on 17 July 2014.
Member of the Health and Environment Advisory Committee.
of the Nomination and Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Sue began her local Richard was, most recently, Peter joined GEC-Marconi in As Chairman and Chief Thomas has had an government career with Dean of Cass Business School, 1985 as a Financial Accountant Executive of Lloyds TSB extensive international Strathclyde Regional Council in London.
Prior to this he spent at the manufacturing operation Scotland plc, Susan was career in the oil and marine 1976.
Sue was Chief Executive 10 years at Kleinwort Benson, in Portsmouth and in 1998 was the first woman to head industries with the A. P. at both Aberdeen City Council before moving to BZW, in due appointed Finance Director of a UK clearing bank.
From and East Dumbartonshire course, becoming joint Head Marconi Electronic Systems 2004 to 2009 he was CEO Previously she worked Council before she took up of Corporate Finance and, prior to the completion of the and President of Mrsks oil for Bank of Scotland and the same post at the City of latterly, Chairman of European British Aerospace Marconi and gas company.
Between Natwest Bancorp in New York.
Edinburgh Council in January Investment Banking at Credit merger.
2005 and 2009 he also In her earlier career, she was 2011.
In 2010 and 2011 Sue Suisse First Boston.
He has served on Mrsks Board He was a Board director of a Dean at Yale and Colgate received the Princes Business previously served as Chief and Executive Committee.
Marconis European joint universities in America.
Ambassador award and in 2010 Executive then Chairman of venture companies, Alenia Thomas has an MBA in Susan is a Chartered Banker.
she was recognised as the the Shareholder Executive.
He Marconi Systems and Matra Foreign Relations and Scottish Public Sector Leader has been the Chairman of CDC Marconi Space, and has been a Foreign Trade.
of the Year at the Scottish Group and a non-Executive Chairman of the trustee board Leadership awards.
director of P&O, Debenhams, of a major pension scheme.
Tomkins, Qinetiq Group Peter is a Fellow of the and Kidde.
Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.
Chief Executive, Edinburgh City Chairman of Henderson Group Finance Director of BAE Managing Director, Lloyds Chairman of the Lloyds Council.
Non-Executive Systems plc and a member of Banking Group Scotland.
Register Group and Director of Wm Morrison the BAE Systems Inc Board in Chairman of the Board Non-Executive Director on Supermarkets plc.
of Trustees for the the Court of Bank of England, Independent Director Lloyds Foundation.
and Chair of its Audit and Risk of Hiscox Ltd and Helical Committee.
Non-Executive Chairman of DeepOcean Bar plc.
Director of J Sainsbury plc Group.
Trustee of the British Council and of Big Society Capital Ltd. Vice Chairman of VKR and a member of the advisors President of SCDI.
boards of the City UK and of Non-Executive Director the Association of Corporate of Petrofac Ltd. Treasurers.
