Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committees role is to review the leadership the reappointment of Jeremy Beeton and Katie Bickerstaffe as non-Executive Directors needs of the Board and senior management of SSE, to support for a further three-year period: the Companys continued ability to retain and recruit the a review of Board Committee membership: the search for a new non-Executive Director expertise it needs.
as part of the ongoing review of succession and refreshment of the Board: and a review of independence of all the nonMembers and meetings Executive Directors.
Independent nonExecutive Member Attended Independence Members Director since scheduled Lady Rices continuing independence was considered carefully taking account of the Scheduled fact she has been on the Board since 2003.
Lord Smith Committee Chairman No Mar 2004 4 4 The Committees clear view continued to be that Katie Bickerstaffe Yes Sep 2011 4 4 she remains independent, she provides robust challenge, and her knowledge and experience Richard Gillingwater Yes Sep 2008 4 4 as a Remuneration Committee member has Alistair Phillips-Davies No July 2013 4 4 been invaluable in the period of change of Executive Directors roles and responsibilities, Lady Rice Yes Mar 2004 4 4 and in a period of significant developments in the governance and reporting requirements Former Committee Members of remuneration matters.
She will step down from the Board at the AGM on 17 July 2014 Jeremy Beeton Yes 1 1 and Richard Gillingwater will then take over Thomas Thune Andersen Yes 1 1 as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board Succession The search for new non-Executive Directors Role The selection process generally involves resulted in the appointment of Sue Bruce on The Nomination Committees role is to review interviews with a number of candidates, 1 September 2013 and Peter Lynas with effect the leadership needs of the Board and senior using the services of a professional search from 1 July 2014.
The specification for the management, with a view to ensuring SSEs firm specialising in Board-level recruitment.
proposed recruitment of the new non-Executive continued ability to compete effectively in the Directors took account of the Boards policy marketplace.
The Nomination Committees When the Committee deals with any matter on diversity and specifically addressed the remit, which is set out in its terms of reference, concerning the Chairmanship of the Board need for a non-Executive Director with relevant includes responsibility for: another non-Executive Director, chosen by financial experience who could serve on the the remaining members, chairs the meeting.
Sam Allen Associates were reviewing the structure, size and composition Members of the Committee do not take part appointed by the Committee to carry out this of the Board and its Committees and making in discussions when their own performance search which resulted in the appointment of recommendations to the Board on any or when their continued appointment is Peter Lynas, and the Committee was satisfied desired changes: being considered.
that they had no other connections with the reviewing the succession plans for the Company which would give rise to a conflict Executive Directors: The Committee also reviews succession of interest.
making recommendations to the Board on planning and leadership needs in the course suitable candidates to fill vacancies for both of its work taking into account the risks and Evaluation non-Executive and Executive Directors: opportunities facing the Company, and from As part of the Board evaluation process, the ensuring that the procedure for appointing this identifies the skills and expertise required operation of the Nomination Committee new Directors is rigorous and transparent from the Board and senior management team.
was evaluated and it was confirmed that the and that appointments are made on merit Committee was operating effectively.
and against objective criteria, including Composition independence and diversity of candidates: The membership of the Committee was reviewing potential conflicts of interest of refreshed during the year.
The table above lists Lord Smith of Kelvin Directors: and the current membership, and also details the Chairman reviewing the external commitments of the attendance of the two previous Committee Directors and the time required to discharge members, Jeremy Beeton and Thomas Thune their responsibilities effectively.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Before a Board appointment is made, the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge Activities in 2013 14 and experience of the Board to ensure that any The Nomination Committee had four meetings new appointment complements these qualities.
The business covered at the Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds meetings included the following: are considered and appointments are made on merit, with due regard for the benefits of a review of any declared conflicts of interests diversity on the Board, including gender.
