Directors' Report How the Board works The UK Corporate Governance Code This report explains how the Company applies the main principles of The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code available on the FRC website.
Group strategy Regulatory matters including price control Annual budget The Board confirms that the Company has, reviews proposed throughout the period under review, complied by Ofgem with all the principles and provisions set out in the Code with the exception of Code provision Approval of key Approval of C. 3.7 which requires FTSE 350 companies to policies such as interim and put the external audit contract out to tender safety, health and final financial at least every ten years.
The full explanation environment statements relating to this aspect of non-compliance is addressed in the Audit Committee Report on pages 70-73.
Major acquisitions, Interim dividend Schedule of Leadership mergers, Matters reserved payments and Matters Reserved disposals recommendation for the Board for the Board The role of the Board and capital of final dividends expenditure The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of SSE and for its overall strategic direction, its values and governance.
It provides significant the leadership necessary for the Group to meet Board and changes in Committee accounting its business objectives whilst ensuring that Membership policy and a sound system of internal control and risk practice management is in place.
The Groups Changes in corporate The powers and duties of the Directors are capital and governance and determined by legislation and by the Companys structure of significant system of internal Articles of Association, which are available on the Group changes control in consumer the SSE website.
A formal schedule of matters is prices specifically reserved to the Board for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed regularly by the Board and is published on the SSE website.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
These roles were reviewed during 2013.
The Chairman The Chief Executive The Executive Directors The Board is chaired by Lord Smith of Kelvin.
Alistair Phillips-Davies is the Chief Executive and The Executive Directors have specific executive The Chairman is responsible for the operation, took over this role from Ian Marchant in July 2013. responsibilities, and as Board members their leadership and governance of the Board He leads the management team in the day-toduties also extend to the whole of the Groups ensuring that it operates effectively while day running and operations of the Group, and is operations and activities.
providing appropriate challenge and debate.
responsible for implementing the strategy and He ensures constructive relations exist between policy set by the Board.
He represents the Executive Directors may be invited to become the Executive and non-Executive Directors.
Company to external stakeholders, including non-Executive Directors of other companies.
He identifies individual Director training needs shareholders, customers, suppliers, regulatory Recognising the benefit to the individual and and oversees the performance evaluation.
and government authorities, and the community.
to the Company, Board approval may be given to accept such positions and any fees He meets with shareholders, analysts and other He is advised and assisted by the Executive earned during the year are disclosed in the representatives of institutional investors, and Committee and its sub-Committees which Remuneration Report.
participates in both the interim and annual oversee the operational and financial results presentations and the AGM.
He also performance of, and issues facing, the Full biographical details of the Executive meets with managers and employees Company.
The Executive Committee and Directors, including details of their relevant at various locations throughout the Group.
its role is explained on pages 52 and 63. experience, and external directorship are set out on page 60.
The non-Executive Directors Independent nonThe non-Executive Directors are chosen for On the Executive Director Attended their diversity of skills and experience.
Each Membership Board since Executive Director Scheduled non-Executive Director is appointed for a fixed Non-Executive term of three years subject to annual re-election Lord Smith of Kelvin 2003 Chairman 6 6 by shareholders.
This term may then be renewed by mutual agreement.
The non-Executive Gregor Alexander 2002 Executive 6 6 Directors appointment letters are available 1 Sue Bruce 2013 Independent 4 4 on the SSE website.
Thomas Thune Andersen 2009 Independent 6 6 The non-Executive Directors: scrutinise, Jeremy Beeton 2011 Independent 6 6 measure and review the performance of Katie Bickerstaffe 2011 Independent 6 6 management: constructively challenge and assist in the development of strategy: review Richard Gillingwater 2007 Independent 6 6 the Group financial information and ensure 2 Ian Marchant 1998 Executive 1 1 systems of internal control and risk management are appropriate and effective: through the Audit Alistair Phillips-Davies 2002 Executive 6 6 Committee, review the relationship with the 3 Lady Rice 2003 Independent 6 6 external Auditor: through the Remuneration Committee, review the remuneration of the Note Executive Directors and senior management: 1 Sue Bruce joined the Board on 1 September 2013 and through the Nomination Committee review 2 Ian Marchant retired from the Board on 30 June 2013 the succession planning for the Board.
3 Lady Rice was deemed to be independent by the Company throughout the year see page 67.
The Chairman and non-Executive Directors met twice during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
These start with an evening meeting If unable to attend a meeting, the Director The Senior Independent Director when the Board is often given a presentation will provide comments and feedback to the Richard Gillingwater is the Senior Independent by senior management on a particular topic.
Chairman, Committee Chairman or Company Director.
He acts as a sounding board for the Occasionally the evening meeting is used to Secretary who ensures that the comments Chairman, and serves as intermediary to other meet with external stakeholders.
The Board received are raised at the meeting.
He is available to meeting then continues the next day and is managers are invited to attend Board meetings shareholders if they have any concerns which usually followed by a meeting of at least one to present various agenda items to the Board, contact through the normal channels of of the Board Committees.
Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which contact In addition to the scheduled meetings the Board The table above sets out the attendance of is inappropriate.
has an update conference call which is held in the Directors at the scheduled Board meetings the month between the bi-monthly scheduled during 2013 14.
Details of attendance at Board During the year he carried out the Chairmans Board meetings.
These calls are used to update Committee meetings are set out in the reports performance evaluation, together with the other the Board on business performance, to brief the that follow.
non-Executive Directors and with input from the Board on any current issues, and may include Executive Directors.
He also attended meetings a matter for decision or approval.
The Executive Committee with investors and management visits including Following a review of the management customer forums.
The Board Committees structure within SSE an Executive Committee There are four standing committees of was established in February 2014 and replaced The Company Secretary the Board.
The terms of reference of these the Management Board.
The Executive Vincent Donnelly is the Company Secretary.
He committees are set by the Board, are reviewed Committee is responsible for implementing is responsible to the Board for compliance with regularly, and are available on the SSE website.
policy and strategy set by the Board for the Board procedures and, through the Chairman, Membership is determined by the Board on the operational management of all SSEs businesses.
for advising and keeping the Board up to date recommendation of the Nomination Committee The Executive Committee comprises the on all corporate governance developments.
He and in consultation with the relevant Committee Chief Executive, the Finance Director, and the facilitates the Directors induction programme Chairman.
Minutes of Board Committee Managing Directors for Enterprise, Networks, and assists with professional development as meetings are included on the agenda of the Retail and Wholesale.
The advice, services and support of the next Board meeting for information, and the meets monthly and the minutes of the meeting Company Secretary are available to all Directors.
Committee Chairman will give an update on are provided to the Board for information.
the key matters that should be brought to the There are five sub-Committees of the Executive Governance Structure attention of the Board.
Committee as outlined on page 59.
The relationship between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Attendance at Board and Company is summarised on pages 59.
Committee meetings The Board Committee reports are set out There is normally full attendance at Board on pages 67 to 92. and Committee meetings, although occasionally there may be non-attendance The Board due to unforeseen circumstances or prior The Board has six scheduled Board meetings commitments which could not be rearranged.
63 Directors' Report How the Board works continued Effectiveness Board balance and independence policies, structure and business including The Nomination Committee Report sets out details of the risks and operational issues facing The composition of the Board the process carried out during the year to verify SSE.
Directors are also expected to develop The composition of the Board and its the continuing independence of the nonand refresh their knowledge and skills on Committees is regularly reviewed to ensure that Executive Directors.
The Board considers that an on-going basis.
SueBruce received a the balance and mix of skills, independence, the Chairman was independent on appointment full induction on appointment to the Board knowledge and experience is maintained.
and all non-Executive Directors are independent which included site visits to Energy Portfolio for the purposes of the Code.
The continuing Management, Retail Customer Service and In September 2013 the Board appointed Sue independent and objective judgement of the Scotia Gas Networks.
Bruce as non-Executive Director and a member non-Executive Directors was confirmed as of the Safety, Health and Environment Advisory part of the annual Board performance As part of the annual Board evaluation Committee.
The Company announced on evaluation process.
process the training and development needs 11March 2014 that Thomas Thune Andersen of individual Directors are reviewed by the will resign from the Board following the AGM The Board considered that LadyRice who has Chairman.
The Company makes the necessary on 17July 2014.
He joined the Board in 2009 served on the Board since July 2003, continued resources available should any Director wish and is the Chairman of the Safety, Health and to demonstrate the characteristics of additional training.
Jeremy independence, such as challenging Beeton will assume the role of Chairman of management and taking part in rigorous debate, The Company operates performance coaching this Committee from 17 July 2014. whilst possessing outstanding knowledge of the for the Executive Directors and for other Companys business.
As Chairman of the members of senior management, which is Lady Rice joined the Board in 2003 and is Remuneration Committee designed to develop and enhance individual Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
her knowledge and extensive experience of and Company performance.
She will step down from the Board on remuneration matters has been extremely 17July2014.
Richard Gillingwater will step valuable to the Company during a time of Information and briefings down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on heightened scrutiny of Executive remuneration Keeping up to date with key business 17July2014 and will be appointed Chairman and review of the Company remuneration policy.
developments is essential for Directors to to the Remuneration Committee on that date.
maintain and enhance their effectiveness.
He will remain a member of the Audit Committee.
Director induction, training The Directors receive detailed financial and and development operational information to allow them to The Board announced on 4 April 2014 that On joining the Board, non-Executive Directors monitor effectively the performance of the Peter Lynas will be appointed as non-Executive receive a comprehensive induction course business.
Board and Committee papers are Director to the Board from 1July2014 and will tailored to their individual requirements which issued for review in advance of meetings.
also assume the role of Chairman of the Audit includes meetings with the Executive Directors At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Committee on 17July2014.
and senior management, visits to key sites, presents an update report on any major and meetings with key stakeholders.
It also current matters from the Groups business: the Following these changes the Board will comprise covers a review of the Groups governance, Finance Director presents a report on financial the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five non-Executive Directors.
Boardroom diversity The recommendation of the Davies Report on Board diversity, by age Board diversity, by sector Women on Boards is that FTSE 100 Boards should aim for a minimum of 25% female representation by 2015.
Female representation on the SSE board 45-54 years old 3 Utilities 2 is currently 33% and when the various Board 55-64 years old 4 Banking 2 changes mentioned above take place this will 65-70 years old 2 Corporate finance 1 reduce to 25%.
The Company is committed to the Major projects 1 approach on diversity set out in the Davies Review, Retail 1 and will continue to take diversity into account for Natural resources 1 future Board appointments whilst appointing on Public sector 1 merit.
The Boards statement on diversity is set out on SSEs website.
Succession planning The programme to refresh the Board is Board diversity, by gender Board diversity, by nationality explained in the Nomination Committee Report on page 67.
The succession plans for management positions are reviewed to ensure Male 6 UK 7 management roles are refreshed with the best Female 3 Denmark 1 candidates, taking account of a range of factors USA UK 1 such as background, experience, qualifications and gender.
The Companys talent management programme provides a robust succession process and development plans for individuals to assist with career aspirations.
Relations with shareholders performance and the Board receives a detailed Senior Independent Director which involved business report from the Executive Committee.
a separate meeting with the non-Executive and major stakeholders The Board also receives regular updates on the Directors and included feedback from the progress and performance of investments, and Executive Directors.
Disclosure and Governance Committee a detailed key performance indicator report.
The Disclosure and Governance Committee The Board evaluation process also confirmed reports to the Executive Committee.
It is During the year, the Board and Committees that the performance of the Directors continues responsible for overseeing the Companys were kept up to date with developments through to be effective and that they continue to framework for the identification, release a programme of briefings by the Executive demonstrate commitment in their and control of announcements and other Directors and senior management on the full respective roles.
information of interest to shareholders and the range of business areas.
The Committee assists and presentations were given on areas such Annual re-election of Directors in developing the investor relations strategy, as strategy, corporate governance, regulatory Each Director will be subject to annual reviews and implements governance and political developments, risk management, re-election and all Directors will stand for developments and advises on matters relating to energy portfolio management, treasury and re-election at the 2014 AGM with exception external affairs.
The Committee comprises: the funding, health and safety, major projects, and of Lady Rice and Thomas Thune Andersen who Chief Executive: Finance Director: Company the Groups major business activities generally.
will both step down from the Board on 17 July Secretary: Managing Director, Corporate Affairs: 2014.
Biographical details for all the Directors Director of Investor Relations and Analysis: Meetings, briefings and site visits were arranged are set out on pages 60 and 61.
Director of External Relations: and the Assistant for the individual non-Executive Directors Company Secretary.
The Committee meets as during the year to allow them to gain additional Directors conflicts of interest required and had six meetings in the year.
The briefings During the year a review of the Directors covered subjects such as operational activities interests and appointments was carried out Dialogue with shareholders and major projects, and the business areas by the Company Secretary and a report was The Company continued to maintain an effective visited included: energy solutions, gas storage, provided to the Nomination Committee for dialogue with shareholders.
The Board believes energy portfolio management, coal and review and recommendation to the Board.
The that this is fundamental to ensuring that the freight, energy trading and customer services, full Board then considered and authorised each Companys strategy is understood and that retail, generation control desk operations and Directors reported actual or potential conflicts any questions or issues are dealt with in a Ireland operations.
of interest at the Board meeting in January2014.
In accordance with the Companys Articles Independent professional advice of Association and relevant legislation, each The Company maintains regular contact with There is an agreed procedure for Directors Director abstained from approval of their own institutional shareholders, fund managers and to take independent professional advice, if position.
The Board continues to monitor and analysts through a programme of dialogue, necessary, at the Companys expense.
The prior review potential conflicts of interest on a regular meetings, presentations, events and site visits led approval of the Chairman is required where the basis.
Directors are responsible for notifying by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The cost of such advice is likely to exceed 10,000. the Company Secretary if they become aware Director of Investor Relations and Analysis has Any advice obtained shall be made available to of an actual or potential conflict situation day-to-day responsibility for communications the other members of the Board, if the Board or a change in circumstances relating to with institutional shareholders.
This procedure was not used an existing authorisation.
and analysts briefings are distributed to the during the year.
The Board receives regular reports on the various issues raised by institutional Accountability Evaluation of the Board, shareholders, fund managers and analysts Committees and Directors Financial and business reporting which allow the Directors to form a view The Board, its Committees and the individual In its reporting to shareholders, the Board of the priorities and concerns of the Directors participate in an annual evaluation recognises its responsibility to present a fair, Companys stakeholders.
balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
This The Chairman participated in the Companys An externally facilitated evaluation process responsibility covers the Annual Report and results presentations in May 2013 and November every three years is recommended by the Code.
Accounts and extends to interim results 2013.
He also meets major institutional The last external evaluation was conducted statements and other price-sensitive public shareholders and institutional shareholder during 2012.
An internally facilitated Board and announcements and reports to regulators as bodies from time to time to gain a first-hand Committee evaluation was carried out in 2013 well as information that should be presented by understanding of key issues.
and took the form of individual questionnaires statutory requirements.
The Strategic Report on and feedback from each of the Directors.
pages 1 to 57 sets out explanations of the basis The Senior Independent Director, is available to The outcome of the evaluation process was on which the Company generates or preserves shareholders if they have concerns that contact considered at the Board meeting held in value over the longer term and the strategy through the normal channels has either failed January 2014.
Recommendations for further for delivering the objectives of the Company.
to resolve or is deemed inappropriate.
consideration included increasing the profile The Annual Report is intended to provide the of the Board within SSE, arrangements for more information necessary to enable an assessment Communications with investors strategy discussions, and suggestions for some of the Companys performance, the business SSEs website contains up-to-date information new agenda items for Board meetings.
for shareholders and other interested parties including share price information, Each Director also participated in detailed The Audit Committee announcements and news releases, investor reviews of individual performance which were The Audit Committee Report, which describes and analyst presentations, and a section carried out by the Chairman.
The process for the work of the Audit Committee in discharging containing information on shareholder evaluating the Chairman was managed by the its responsibilities, is set out on pages 70 to 73. services.
The Companys Annual Report 65 Directors' Report How the Board works continued and other shareholder circulars are also engagement with local authority elected published on the SSE website.
members and officials: active participation in relevant trade Shareholders have a choice of how to receive associations and bodies: and their Company communications such as the discussions with non-governmental Annual Report.
The Company recognises the organisations and other relevant benefit of electronic communications and organisations such as charities.
encourages shareholders to receive electronic communication.
Currently 97% of shareholders The Companys objective is to ensure that it is receive Company communications such as the able to perform its core purpose of providing the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General energy people need in a reliable and sustainable Meeting from the SSE website.
Its principal public policy goal at present the reduced cost and environmental impact of is to represent the interests of its customers by this form of communication, the Company, on ensuring that energy bills are as affordable as behalf of shareholders, makes a donation to possible.
This is achieved by removing policy WWFs International Forest Programme for every costs from non means-tested energy bills and shareholder that elects for email communication into the fairer mechanism of general taxation, or receives Company documentation via the whilst ensuring a framework to enable the SSE website.
Company to invest in secure and lower-carbon supplies of energy in the United Kingdom and Annual General Meeting 2014 Ireland.
In pursuing public policy goals, SSE The 25th AGM of the Company will be held always aims to deploy evidence and arguments on 17 July 2014 at 12 noon at the Perth Concert that are consistent with its purpose, values Hall, Mill Street, Perth PH1 5HZ.
The Notice of and strategy.
Annual General Meeting, which contains full explanations of the business to be conducted at the AGM, is set out in a separate shareholder circular.
The AGM provides an opportunity for the Board to meet with shareholders and provide an update on the performance and plans of the Company.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the AGM and to meet the Directors and senior managers.
Communications with other stakeholders The Directors have a programme of events to meet with a range of external stakeholders representing the public sector, investment community, environmental affairs, and consumer interests.
The purpose of these events is to discuss the Companys position on a range of business, policy and public interest issues and to learn more about stakeholders views, hear their suggestions and address any areas of concern.
More generally, working with public policy makers is a vital area for the Company, given the high profile of energy and environment related issues in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.
The Company engages with stakeholders in several ways: constructive engagement where appropriate with Ofgem, which is responsible for promoting competition, and regulating the regional monopoly companies which run the gas and electricity networks: ongoing dialogue with Ministers and officials in the UK and Irish governments, and in the devolved administrations in the UK: submissions to government and Parliamentary consultations and inquiries: meetings with, and briefings of, elected members of all parties in legislatures: 66 SSE plc Annual Report 2014
