Directors' Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its business activities, significant experience in financial matters see biographies on pages responsibilities relating to financial reporting, internal control, 60 and 61.
The Audit Committees Chairman, risk management and the relationship with the external auditor.
Richard Gillingwater, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The Members and meetings membership of the Audit Committee will be Independent refreshed when Thomas Andersen stands down nonExecutive Member Attended from the Board on 17 July 2014.
Sue Bruce will Members Director since scheduled become a member of the Audit Committee.
Richard Gillingwater will Peter Lynas will Richard Gillingwater Committee Chairman Yes May 2007 3 3 continue to be a member and become the Thomas Thune Andersen Yes Feb 2009 3 3 new Committee Chairman.
Jeremy Beeton Yes Nov 2011 3 3 On joining the Audit Committee, new members receive an induction tailored to their individual requirements which would usually include an Chairmans Introduction Committee Report overview of the business, its financial dynamics, principal risks and their management, and a I am delighted to present on behalf of the Role separate meeting with the External Auditor.
Board our Audit Committee Report for the The Audit Committee is authorised by the Members of the Audit Committee receive financial year ended 31 March 2014.
Our Board to: regular briefings from management on matters activities continued to be focused on the such as governance developments, treasury, integrity of the Groups financial reporting: review the integrity of the interim and annual energy portfolio management and accounting the performance and effectiveness of both financial statements: policies and practices.
the internal and external audit process: the review the appropriateness of accounting objectivity, independence and appointment policies and practices: Meetings and Activities in 2013 14 of the External Auditor: the effectiveness of review the significant issues and judgements The Audit Committee met three times during the internal control and risk management considered in relation to the financial the year and details of members attendance framework: and the assessment of governance statements including how they were is set out in the table above.
Meetings are also developments affecting the activities of the addressed: routinely attended by the: Company Chairman: Audit Committee.
review the content of the Annual Report Chief Executive: Finance Director: Managing and Accounts and advise the Board on Director, Finance: Director of Risk and Audit: This is the first year that we have been required whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, and the External Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
to report under the 2012 edition of The UK balanced and understandable: The Assistant Company Secretary is secretary Corporate Governance Code the Code.
review and monitor the effectiveness of the to the Audit Committee.
Other senior managers During the year, we considered and made Internal Audit function, including approval including the: Managing Director, Wholesale: recommendations to the Board on the new of the Internal Audit plan: Director of Treasury and Corporate Finance: requirements relating to audit tendering, review and monitor the objectivity and Group Financial Controller: and Chief reporting of significant judgements and the independence of the External Auditor, Accountant are also invited to attend certain assurance framework to underpin the fair, including the policy to govern the provision meetings in order to provide a deeper level balanced and understandable requirement.
of non-audit services: of insight into certain key issues.
The Audit review and monitor the effectiveness of Committee meets with the External Auditor The Audit Committee recognises that the length the external audit process and the ongoing and management separately at least once a of tenure of external auditors is coming under relationship with the External Auditor: year in order to get feedback on the relationship increasing scrutiny, and is fully aware of the review and make recommendations to and assess the effectiveness of the external audit changes being implemented by the Competition the Board on tendering, appointment, process.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and Markets Authority and also at EU level.
remuneration and terms of engagement regularly meets separately with the Finance Following our recommendation on the Code of the External Auditor: Director, Director of Risk and Audit and requirement to put the external audit contract review and monitor the effectiveness of the External Auditor to ensure the work of out to tender at least every 10 years, the Board the internal control and risk management the Audit Committee is focused on key and concluded that a tender process should not take framework: and emerging issues.
The factors which we took establish and oversee appropriate account of in considering the audit tendering whistleblowing and fraud prevention As part of the process of working with the requirements are explained in this report.
Board and to maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Audit Committee take place in advance We will continue to keep our activities under Composition of Board meetings.
The Audit Committee review to ensure future developments relating Members of the Audit Committee are appointed Chairman reports to the Board after each to the work of the Audit Committee are fully by the Board following recommendation meeting, identifying the matters of particular considered.
The Report that follows describes by the Nomination Committee.
The current relevance to the Board in the conduct of its the role of the Audit Committee in SSEs corporate membership of the Audit Committee is set work.
Minutes of Audit Committee meetings governance framework and explains how it has out in the table above.
The Board confirmed are provided to the Board and External Auditors.
discharged its responsibilities during the year.
that each member of the Audit Committee is independent and that the membership meets The Audit Committee has an annual work plan Richard Gillingwater the requirements of the Code.
Each member developed from its terms of reference.
The key Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee has, through their other matters considered by the Audit Committee 70 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Directors' Report 3. during the year principally fell under five main the integrity of the interim and annual In carrying out this review, the Audit Committee areas set out below: financial statements and accompanying received reports from members of the Group reports to shareholders: Finance Team and the External Auditor setting Financial Reporting and Significant the appropriateness of the accounting out their views on the accounting treatments Financial Judgements policies and practices used: and judgements included in the financial Internal Audit the clarity of the disclosures and compliance statements.
In addition, the Audit Committee External Audit with financial reporting standards and reviewed and the Board approved the assurance Internal Control and Risk Management relevant financial and governance reporting framework used to support compliance with the Governance requirements: requirement to state the Annual Report and areas in which significant judgements had Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
been applied or matters raised for discussion Financial Reporting and Significant by the External Auditor: Significant financial judgements letters of representation issued by After discussion with management and the Financial Judgements management to the External Auditor: and External Auditor, the significant areas of Financial Reporting whether the Annual Report and Accounts, judgement reviewed and considered by the The Audit Committee assisted the Board with were fair, balanced and understandable Audit Committee in relation to the 2014 financial the effective discharge of its responsibilities for and provided the information necessary statements, and how these were addressed, financial reporting.
To fulfil this responsibility for shareholders to assess the companys are set out below: during the year, the Audit Committee considered: performance, business model and strategy.
Significant financial judgements for the year ended 31 March 2014 How the Audit Committee addressed these significant financial judgements Accounting for estimated revenue: The Audit Committee considered a paper prepared by management Revenue from energy sales includes an estimate of the value of electricity which detailed the methodology, practical process issues and assumptions or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading applied in determining the basis of recognition of unbilled debtors, with and the year end.
This is based on estimates and assumptions in relation particular reference to domestic gas.
The Audit Committee also considered to the estimated consumption and valuation of that consumption detailed reporting from, and held discussions with, the External Auditor see Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
Valuation of receivables: The Audit Committee considered a detailed paper which described The recoverability of the Groups billed energy receivables is a key the economic conditions and assumptions impacting management judgement area given the risk of customer insolvency or default.
judgements on doubtful debt allowances and charges, the activities The level of the Groups aged debt is monitored with the basis of the of the Groups Debts Steering Group whose members include the Groups allowances for doubtful debt being based on assumptions Finance Director and other senior management and the Groups policies derived from experience and industry knowledge see Note 3 to the and processes for receivables collection and provisioning.
Committee also considered the results of the work of the External Auditor in this area.
Carrying value of certain non-current assets: The basis and outcome of this review is described in papers presented to The carrying value of certain non-current assets including power the Audit Committee by management.
These papers include descriptions generation plants and goodwill needs to be assessed by reference to of the methodologies and assumptions applied in deriving the recoverable the recoverable value value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell of the values including the discount rates utilised.
The Audit Committee asset or the associated CGU cash generating unit.
An annual valuation constructively challenged the assumptions and projections presented impairment exercise is carried out as described at Note 13 to the Financial in the management paper and also considered the detailed reporting Statements.
The assumptions applied in this exercise require judgements from, and findings by, the External Auditor.
Following this review, on the economic factors associated with the assets under review the Audit Committee approved the decision to recognise exceptional see Note 13 to the Financial Statements.
charges of 574.9m in relation to certain assets in the financial year.
Accounting for legal and contractual claims: The significant disputes, claims and other actions against the Group and The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation and contractual disputes the associated accounting judgements and disclosures are reported to the through the course of its normal operations.
The Group needs to Audit Committee by management.
The Audit Committee constructively consider the level of provision or disclosure in relation to these challenged the assumptions underpinning the accounting treatment and claims utilising legal advice which is an inherently subjective process sought the views of the External Auditor in this area.
see Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
Accounting for Group pension obligations: The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit retirement The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement schemes are regularly reviewed.
Advice is taken from independent benefits during the period are set after consultation with qualified actuaries on the IAS 19R valuation of the schemes.
The Audit Committee actuaries and can have a significantly material impact on the financial were updated on the schemes valuation from management at each period position of the Group see Note 31 to the Financial Statements.
end and also considered the reporting of the External Auditor particularly in relation to the schemes key assumptions relative to market practice.
71 Directors' Report Audit Committee Report continued Internal Audit Objectivity and independence the effectiveness of the overall audit process of the External Auditor for 2013 14, including meeting with the The Audit Committee is responsible for The Audit Committee is responsible for External Auditor and management separately reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness reviewing and monitoring the objectivity and to identify any areas of concern: of the Internal Audit function, including independence of the External Auditor.
To fulfil the quality of both the External Auditors approval of the Internal Audit plan.
To fulfil this responsibility, the Audit Committee oversees report to, and the Audit Partners interaction this responsibility during the year, the Audit a policy to govern the non-audit services that with, the Audit Committee: Committee considered: may be provided by the External Auditor.
The feedback from management on the ongoing policy sets out details of the allowable services relationship with the External Auditor: and progress against the 2013 14 Internal that are pre-approved up to a threshold of the qualifications, expertise and resources Audit plan, the results of any audits and 30,000 for general advice and 75,000 for of the External Auditor.
other significant findings, the adequacy of tax-related advice.
Any non-audit services that managements response to matters raised and exceed these thresholds must be tendered After taking into account all the above matters, the time taken to resolve any such matters: unless the Audit Committee Chairman is the Audit Committee concluded that it is fully reports from Internal Audit on the assessment consulted in advance.
The Audit Committee satisfied with the effectiveness of both the of the risk management framework and the receives a regular report from management external audit process and the ongoing internal control environment, including on the services being provided by the External relationship with the External Auditor.
details on the level of alignment between Auditor and approves the fees incurred.
Fees for the Groups principal risks and the Internal audit-related and non-audit services incurred Appointment of the External Auditor Audit plan: during the year amounted to 0.6m representing The Audit Committee is responsible for the Internal Audit plan for 2014 15 and 60% of the audit fees.
Details of the fees paid to reviewing and making recommendations to the approved a more flexible approach to its the External Auditor for audit, audit-related and Board on the appointment, remuneration and implementation in order to reflect changing non-audit services during the year is made in terms of engagement of the External Auditor.
At business needs and to ensure that new and Note 5 to the Financial Statements.
the 2013 AGM, shareholders re-appointed KPMG emerging risks are considered: as the External Auditor of the company for the the requirements of the Internal Audit Charter Significant categories of engagement for year ended 31March2014, and authorised the and approved an updated version outlining the non-audit services awarded during the year directors to fix their remuneration.
In making independence, authority and responsibilities include 214,000 in connection with advice such recommendations to the Board, the of the Internal Audit function: and relating to the review of the street lighting Audit Committee considered the objectivity, the expertise and resources available to the business, 165,000 in connection with the independence, effectiveness, and ongoing Internal Audit function.
Rocksavage claim and 62,000 in connection relationship with the External Auditor as with tax compliance and advisory service.
described above, in addition to the External SSEs Director of Risk and Audit has management In each case, the Audit Committee Chairman Auditors approach, scope, areas of focus, responsibility for the Internal Audit function.
was satisfied that the work was best handled level of materiality and remuneration for the In addition to the normal corporate reporting by the External Auditor because of their audit of the financial year ended 31 March 2014. structure, the Director of Risk and Audit is given knowledge of the Group and the skills and the right of direct access to the Audit Committee, expertise that it brought to the assignment.
Tendering of External Auditor Chief Executive and Company Chairman.
During The Audit Committee considered reports The Audit Committee is responsible for the year, the Audit Committee considered his from management which did not raise any reviewing and making recommendations to views on the effectiveness and resourcing of the concerns in respect of the External Auditors the Board on tendering of the external audit Internal Audit function, together with an overview objectivity and independence.
Whilst the Audit Committee has kept of areas for future development.
The Audit the External Auditors has provided specific under review all aspects of the relationship with Committee concluded that it is fully satisfied with assurance to the Audit Committee on the the External Auditor, no formal tender of the the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, arrangements it has in place to maintain audit process has been carried out since KPMGs and supports ongoing developments to further its objectivity and independence.
The Audit Committee enhance its effectiveness.
Committee concluded that it is fully satisfied was briefed on audit tendering developments with the objectivity and independence of the and is fully aware of the audit tendering External Auditor.
recommendations set out in the Code.
Before External Audit making a recommendation to the Board on the KPMG was appointed as the External Auditor Effectiveness of the External Auditor timing of the external audit tender, the Audit in 1999 through a competitive tender process and ongoing relationship Committee considered: following the merger which formed SSE.
KPMG The Audit Committee is responsible for was re-appointed by shareholders at the 2013 reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness the quality, stability and continuity provided Annual General Meeting to hold office until of both the external audit process and the by the relationship with the current External conclusion of the next AGM, and it has acted ongoing relationship with the External Auditor.
Auditor: as the External Auditor of the Group throughout To fulfil this responsibility during the year, the timing of planned changes to the the year.
The current lead audit partner is the Audit Committee considered: membership and position of Chair of the based in London and is supported by an audit Audit Committee: team based in Reading, Glasgow and Dublin.
regular reports on progress against the the changes to auditor tendering The External Auditor is required to rotate the 2013 14 External Auditors plan, significant requirements and the anticipated mandatory lead audit partner every five years.
The Audit findings, the adequacy of managements auditor rotation obligation and the impact Committee monitors this rotation, and confirms response to matters raised and the time both have on the timing of a tender: that the current lead partner will reach his five taken to resolve any such matters: management of the audit requirement year term, and will therefore cease to act, on the competence with which the External regarding the change in UK GAAP at completion of the audit for the financial year Auditor handled and communicated the subsidiary level: ended 31 March 2014. key accounting and audit judgements: 72 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Directors' Report 3. the lead time to ensure potential audit firms the External Auditor: on their assessment are not restricted in their ability to tender of significant risks and the internal control for the external audit contract arising from environment in so far as is necessary to form existing contracts for non-audit work: and an opinion on the true and fair view of the the lead time to tie in with the cycle for financial statements.
the preparation of the Annual Report and AGM documentation.
Governance After taking into account all the above matters, Terms of reference upon the recommendation of the Audit The terms of reference of the Audit Committee Committee, the Board concluded that a tender were updated to reflect changes made to The should not take place at this time.
The matters UK Corporate Governance Code.
These were highlighted above constitute the Companys approved by the Board in November 2013, rationale and explanation for non-compliance and a copy is available on the SSE website.
with section C. 3.7 of the Code.
The Audit Committee will continue to keep under review Evaluation the timing of the tender for the external audit As part of the Board evaluation process, contract and will make recommendations to the the operation of the Audit Committee was Board.
However it is likely that a tender process evaluated, and it was confirmed that it was will not be initiated until between summer 2015 operating effectively.
Details of the evaluation and March 2016 at the earliest.
There are no process are set out on page 64. contractual obligations which restrict the choice of External Auditor, and any future tender process will be based on a clear selection and assessment Richard Gillingwater criteria.
In light of the decision to defer tendering, Committee Chairman resolutions to re-appoint KPMG as External Auditor of the Company for the year ending 31 March 2015, and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, will be proposed to shareholders at the AGM on 17July2014.
Internal Control and Risk Management Whilst the Board is responsible for the overall system of internal control and risk management, responsibility for reviewing and monitoring effectiveness of the system is covered by a number of key committees and related assurance activities across the Group.
Full details of the Groups internal control and risk management framework, including an explanation of the requirements under the Turnbull guidance, are set out on pages 22 to 27.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in the internal control and risk management framework, and during the year it considered information drawn from a number of different sources, including reports from: Treasury: setting out strategy, market developments, significant risks and controls in place to mitigate these risks: Energy Portfolio Management: setting out strategy, market and financial regulation developments, significant risks and controls in place to mitigate these risks: Internal Audit: on the identification, evaluation and monitoring of principal risks, including their assessment of the risk management framework and internal control environment: Internal Audit: on the implementation of the whistleblowing policy and the investigation into allegations and any incidents of fraud: and 73
