26 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Groups first Audit Committee report following its Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 July 2014.
This report focuses on the matters considered by the Audit Committee prior to Admission, the work undertaken to transition from the Groups private company status to a listed company and the focus of the Audit Committee going forward.
Leading up to Admission, the Group identified the need to strengthen the independence of the Audit Committee to ensure that it complied with the recommendations of the Code.
As a result, the composition of the Audit Committee changed during the year and it is now entirely made up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The members of the Audit Committee are myself as Chair, John Barton and Denis Hennequin.
The Board considers I have recent and relevant financial experience, as recommended by the Code.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and its terms of reference were approved in advance of Admission and are fully aligned with the Code.
The terms of reference set out in full the role, responsibilities and authority of the Committee and can be found at www.
The primary function of the Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to protect the interests of the shareholders with regard to the integrity of the financial reporting, audit, risk management and internal controls.
We aim to provide shareholders with timely communication on significant matters relating to the Groups financial position and prospects and we are also responsible for monitoring fraud risk.
During the IPO, as part of completing the Groups financial position, prospects and procedures report, KPMG LLP and the Directors undertook a detailed assessment of the following key areas: Board governance including the Audit Committee and the procedure for assessing the Groups key risks: Management accounting process and the information provided to the Board: External financial reporting procedures and reporting standards: Internal control environment both at high and detailed levels: Complex transactions, potential exposure and risk: Information systems: and Budgeting and forecasting procedures and controls.
The Directors recognise the need to maintain the financial reporting procedures, review them on an ongoing basis and adapt them to changing circumstances.
Their continuous review will form part of the Audit Committees agenda going forward together with its wider role and responsibilities.
I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM.
Ian Dyson Chairman of the Audit Committee 26 November 2014 27 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Summary of the role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective financial governance in respect of: the Groups financial results, including adequacy of related disclosures: the performance of, and relationship with, both the internal and external auditors: and the review of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is responsible for, amongst other matters: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the auditors and the audit fee: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements on the Groups financial performance: reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in the financial statements: reviewing reports from the Groups auditors on the financial statements: implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: reviewing the Groups internal financial control and risk management systems, whistleblowing arrangements and other audit and risk-related arrangements to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the effectiveness of those systems.
Italso receives detailed reports on the internal controls and risk management processes within the business units: and reviewing the adequacy of the scope and performance of the internal auditor.
Composition of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are Ian Dyson Chairman, John Barton and Denis Hennequin.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Audit Committee is summarised on pages 20 and 21.
In accordance with the Code, Ian Dyson has recent and relevant expertise, having held the position of Chief Executive Officer at Punch Taverns plc and Group Finance and Operations Director at Marks and Spencer plc.
The Board considers that each member of the Audit Committee is independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board, following recommendations by the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committees membership is reviewed by the Nomination Committee and as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Prior to the establishment of the current Audit Committee, the Group had in place an Audit Committee which comprised John Barry Gibson Chairman, Vagn Srensen and Per Franzn.
Meetings The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet regularly throughout the year and its agenda is linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
Each member of the Audit Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
The current Audit Committee is scheduled to meet four times in the 2015 financial year.
It is expected that all Committee members attend meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The following table shows the number of meetings held during the period from 15 July 2014 to 30 September 2014 and the attendance record of the individual Directors.
Committee membership Number of meetings attended Ian Dyson 1 1 John Barton 1 1 Denis Hennequin 1 1 28 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued The Audit Committee invites the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Director of Business Controls, together with senior representatives from the internal and external auditors, to attend each meeting although, from time to time, it reserves time for discussions without invitees being present.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
The Audit Committee holds private sessions with the external and internal auditors without management present, and the Committee Chairman meets privately with both internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key issues discussed at the Committees meetings and will attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
The Board has reviewed the performance of the Audit Committee to date and is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its members is such that the Committee discharges its responsibilities in an effective, informed and challenging manner.
The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee and the policy with regard to the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on pages 31 to 44.
Financial reporting The Audit Committee reviews all significant issues concerning the financial statements.
The principal matters we considered concerning the 2014 financial statements were: Goodwill and intangible assets: The Group has a significant goodwill balance representing consideration paid in excess of the fair value of the identified net assets acquired relating to the acquisition of the SSP business through the purchase of various Compass Group PLC subsidiaries by various subsidiaries of SSP Group.
The net assets acquired include intangible assets relating to the Groups own brands and franchise rights in respect of third-party brands which were determined at the date of acquisition.
The Audit Committee recognises that there is a risk that a business can become impaired, for example due to market changes.
As a result the Group monitors carrying values of goodwill and intangibles to ensure that they are recoverable and any specific indicators of goodwill or intangible impairment are discussed by the Executive Directors with both operational and financial management.
The carrying value of goodwill is subject to impairment testing, on an annual basis.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed on the identification of a possible indicator of impairment, to ensure that the carrying values are recoverable.
This testing, including the key assumptions and sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
After reviewing reports from management and consulting where necessary with the external auditors, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures provided.
The Audit Committee agrees with management that no impairment needs to be recognised.
Underlying and non-underlying presentation: The Group presents underlying income statement measures for operating profit and profit loss for the period within the consolidated income statement and throughout the annual report in order to provide clear and useful information on the Groups underlying trading performance.
The underlying measures exclude exceptional items, which in 2014 and 2013 comprised exceptional redundancy and restructuring costs, costs in respect of the IPO and associated refinancing, an exceptional goodwill write-off, and costs related to acquisition and disposals of businesses.
They also exclude non-cash accounting adjustments relating to amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition of the Group by EQT in 2006.
The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged the presentation of underlying profit and the reporting of exceptional items and noncash accounting adjustments, taking into account IFRS requirements and recent guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit Committee is of the view that the presentation of the underlying and non-underlying information provides useful disclosure toaid the understanding of the performance of the Group.
The Committee agreed the parameters of, and reviewed a report to support, the going concern statement.
An intrinsic requirement of a Groups financial statements is for the annual report and accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The co-ordination and review of the Group-wide input into the annual report is a sizeable exercise performed within an exacting timeframe which runs alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the auditors.
The process to ensure that the Audit Committee, and then the Board, are satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the document has been underpinned by: guidance issued to contributors at operational level: a verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports: and comprehensive review by the Directors and the senior team.
29 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements External audit KPMG was appointed as auditor to SSP Group Limited on its incorporation in 2006 and subsequently to SSP Group plc on its listing in July 2014.
KPMG is subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
The effectiveness and the independence of the external auditor are key to ensuring the integrity of the Groups published financial information.
Prior to the commencement of the audit, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the audit plan to gauge whether it was appropriately focused.
KPMG LLP presented to the Audit Committee their proposed plan of work which was designed to ensure there are no material misstatements in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee considered the accounting, financial control and audit issues reported by the auditors that flowed from the audit work.
The Committees policy is to initiate an annual review of auditor quality, effectiveness, value and independence at the conclusion of each year-end audit.
Having assessed the output of the annual review undertaken at the close of the 2014 year-end audit, taken into account the Committees own interactions with KPMG throughout the year, and satisfied itself on the continuing independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the Committee proposed to the Board that it recommend shareholders support the appointment of KPMG at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee has kept under review the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor, however no formal tender of the audit process has been carried out since KPMGs appointment in 2006, since it has taken the view that partner rotation at both the Group and operating business level has been sufficient to maintain the necessary independence, and it has continued to be satisfied with KPMGs performance.
The Audit Committee is mindful of the requirements under the Code that the audit should be put out to tender every 10 years on a comply or explain basis.
There are no contractual obligations that would restrict the selection of a different auditor.
Auditor independence and non-audit services policy The Audit Committee has adopted a formal policy governing the engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services, taking into account the relevant ethical guidance on the matter.
This policy will be reviewed annually by the Committee.
The policy describes the circumstances in which the auditor may be engaged to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
The Committee oversees compliance with the policy and considers and approves requests to use the auditor for non-audit work.
Recognising that the auditors are best placed to undertake certain work of a non-audit nature, the engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited are subject to formal review by the Audit Committee based on the level of fees involved.
Non-audit services that are pre-approved are either routine in nature with a fee that is not significant in the context of the audit or are audit-related services.
Details of fees payable to the auditors are set out in note 5 on page 67.
In 2014, non-audit fees represented 288% of the audit fee.
The level of non-audit fees in 2014 reflects the services and advice provided, including as Reporting Accountant, in connection with the IPO.
The auditors were determined to be the appropriate advisors for the Group to engage given the scale and complexity of the work involved.
This work did not represent a threat to KPMGs independence, as it was permissible work under auditor independence guidelines: was performed by a different and independent engagement team: did not give rise to financial entries: did not result in decisions being made by KPMG on behalf of management: and the fee arrangements were not dependent on the results of the work.
KPMG also complied with the independence requirements as set out by the APB Ethical Standards for Reporting Accountants.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on their independence from the Group.
The Committee are satisfied that KPMG LLP has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with defined authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the Groups business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Executive Directors meet with both operational and finance management on a monthly basis.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a monthly basis and are measured against both budget and re-forecasts in these meetings.
The Group maintains Group and regional country level risk registers which outline the key risks faced by the Group including their impacts and likelihood along with relevant mitigating controls and actions.
On an annual basis, regional and country management teams are required to update local risk registers and risk maps to ensure the key strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks in each location are captured and prioritised according to likelihood and impact and to identify the risk management activities for each risk.
The regional andcountry risk registers are used in conjunction with input from the Executive Committee to update the Group risk register.
The Risk Committee and Executive Committee review the assessment of risk as well as current and future mitigation activities at both Group and regional country level.
A summary of this review is presented to the Audit Committee annually.
30 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have the most significant impact on the Groups long-term performance are set out on pages 8 to 12.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls and system of internal control by reviewing the scope of work and reports of the internal and external auditor.
The Committee also reviewed the risk assessment process and Group, regional and country risk registers during the year.
Internal audit Internal audit plays an important role in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls by a programme of reviews based on a continuing assessment of business risk across the Group.
Deloitte LLP acts as internal auditor to the Company.
The Internal Auditor is a permanent member of the Risk Committee and reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit are in regular dialogue with regional Chief Financial Officers.
Where control deficiencies are noted, the Internal Auditor will perform follow up reviews and visits.
The Audit Committee met regularly with Deloitte LLP to review and progress the Groups internal audit plan.
The relevant audit plan and procedures are aimed at addressing financial risk management objectives and providing coverage of the risks identified in the regional and country risk registers.
The internal audit plans have been prepared in accordance with standards promoted by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Audit Committee will continue to monitor the effectiveness of internal audit plans in accordance with the Groups ongoing requirements.
The Audit Committee considered the output from the 2014 annual internal audit programme of assurance work, reviewed managements response to the matters raised and ensured that any action was timely and commensurate with its level of risk, whether real or perceived.
The Audit Committee determines the adequacy of the performance of the internal auditor through the quality and depth of findings and recommendations.
There were no significant weaknesses identified in the year that would materially impact the Group as a whole, but a number of recommendations were acted upon within the Group to strengthen in-place controls or risk awareness.
The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups system of internal controls works well.
Anti-Bribery and whistleblowing SSP has a Group wide anti-bribery and corruption policy to comply with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews its procedures to ensure continued effective compliance in its businesses around the world.
The Groups whistleblowing policy provides the framework to encourage and give all employees confidence to blow the whistle and report irregularities.
Employees are encouraged to raise concerns with designated individuals, including the Executive Directors or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors this policy and reviews annually the number of matters reported and the outcome of any investigations.
The Audit Committee will periodically review the Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud, its systems, controls and policies for preventing bribery, its code of corporate conduct and business ethics and its policies for ensuring that the Group complies with relevant regulatory and legal requirements.
The Committee receives updates on bribery and fraud trends and activity in the business, if any, at least twice a year, with individual updates being given to the Committee, as needed, in more serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
