Corporate governance report 5.1 Introduction from Garry Watts, 5.2 Corporate governance and compliance Deputy Chairman with the Code The year to 30 April 2014 started with a new management structure for the The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups Group.
Sir Brian Souter, who co-founded the Group with his sister, Ann activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance Gloag, became Chairman and Martin Griffiths took over the position of Chief practices within the Group.
This section 5 of the Annual Report sets out Executive after 13 years as the Groups Finance Director.
Ross Paterson, who Stagecoach Groups corporate governance arrangements.
Taken together had been Director of Finance and Company Secretary, took over as Finance with the Directors Report, it includes the disclosures recommended by the Director.
This introduction to the Groups corporate governance report is an Financial Reporting Council FRC UK Corporate Governance Code the opportunity to look back at the year 2013 14 and at the progress that has Code, and describes how the principles of good corporate governance that been made with the governance of the Group and to look forward to the are set out in the Code have been applied.
In line with best practice, separate governance challenges for the future.
reports are provided from each of the Audit Committee, Nomination The changes to the management structure were in many ways a Committee, Health, Safety and Environmental Committee and Remuneration development of the executive teams existing roles but the changes needed Committee.
to be managed to ensure a smooth, successful progression and to ensure The Code issued in September 2012 applied to the Companys financial year that the Board remained balanced and effective.
The Directors believe that throughout the The Group discussed the proposal for Sir Brian Souter to become Chairman year ended 30 April 2014 the Group complied with all of the provisions of the with major shareholders before the changes were announced in 2012.
The Groups approach to audit tendering is considered in section 6.4.
2. were pleased with the support that we received, which has allowed the Group A copy of the Code is available at to retain his knowledge and experience, while giving the executive team the http: www.
uk Our-Work Publications Corporate-Governance UKchance to progress into their new roles.
We were asked by some investors to .
pdf explain why we appointed Sir Brian and not a new independent nonThe Group also complies with the corporate governance requirements of the executive Chairman.
We considered this and other options when planning the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, and Disclosure and Transparency changes that were made.
Sir Brian is a well recognised and respected figure in Rules.
the Group and in the wider transport industry.
The Group benefits from having him in the position of Chairman where he can continue to represent the interests of the Group to the public and to address our shareholders and 5.3 Composition of the Board answer their questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Corporate The composition of the Board is as follows: Governance report that follows sets out in more detail how we address the challenges arising from our Chief Executive moving to the role of Chairman.
Date of Independent At an early stage, the decision was taken to strengthen the independence of appointment Nonif later than Executive Other the Board by appointing an additional non-executive director and to create 1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director the new role of Deputy Chairman, which I assumed on 1 May 2013.
A formal division of responsibilities is in place, which requires the Deputy Chairman to Sir Brian Souter promote the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Chairman Group and particularly at Board level.
Gregor Alexander Gregor Alexander joined the Board on 1 April 2013.
Gregors position as Non-Executive Director Finance Director of SSE plc made him an ideal candidate to take on the role of Sir Ewan Brown Audit Committee Chairman, which he took over from me, following a Non-Executive Director handover period, on 1 July 2013.
I believe that for Stagecoach and its shareholders, the Board structure maintains the appropriate balance between Helen Mahy Non-Executive Directorindependent, non-independent and executive directors.
In his new position as Chairman, the Board is able to draw on the depth of experience of Sir Brian Garry Watts Souter while he has ensured that the executive directors have been given the Senior Independent Director & space to manage the business.
I am satisfied that the views of all of the Deputy Chairman Directors are heard and given due weight and that our corporate governance Phil White procedures are appropriate for the Group.
Non-Executive Director Following the changes to the Board, it was appropriate to review the Will Whitehorn composition of our board committees.
I chair the Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director and asked Helen Mahy to join as an additional member of that committee.
Ann Gloag We agreed that Gregor Alexander would become an additional member of Non-Executive Director the Remuneration Committee and that Will Whitehorn would join the Health, Martin Griffiths Safety and Environmental Committee.
I believe that with these changes, we Chief Executive are able to use the strengths of our non-executive directors more fully.
Ross Paterson The end of our first year following the management changes seemed an Finance Director appropriate time to refresh our Board evaluation and I appointed Margaret Exley of SCT Consultants to facilitate that process.
I was pleased that Margarets report was very positive and found only a small number of areas 5.4 Division of responsibilities for development.
We will work to implement these over the coming year.
Further detail of the evaluation and its outcomes is given in the Corporate Sir Brian Souter was the Chief Executive of the Group until 1 May 2013.
address concerns regarding a Chief Executive becoming the Chairman of the 2013 14 has been a year of transition for the governance of the Company, Group the Board has appointed Garry Watts to the role of Deputy Chairman.
during which the Group has continued to expand its UK Bus business, The split of the Chairmans, Deputy Chairmans and Chief Executives consolidated and strengthened its North American business and has evaluated responsibilities has been agreed in writing and has been approved by the and submitted rail franchise bids.
I look forward to 2014 15 as Martin and Ross Board.
The Deputy Chairman reports to the Chairman and to the Board and has push forward their strategy for the future success of the Group.
responsibility for ensuring proper corporate governance of the Board.
The Deputy Chairmans role includes ensuring that the Boards consideration of matters is in the best interests of the Group and unaffected by conflicts of interest.
No executives report directly to the Deputy Chairman.
Garry Watts The Deputy Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board determines Deputy Chairman the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives with the overall success 25 June 2014 of the Group in mind and to provide guidance in this regard to the Chairman.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 33 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:37 Page 34 Corporate governance report The Chief Executive is responsible for proposing and developing that strategy scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its with support and guidance from the Chairman.
In this way, the Group is able to Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact with draw upon the talent, knowledge and entrepreneurial skills of Sir Brian Souter, each other and with the Groups management on a range of matters.
in his role as Chairman, while maintaining a strong board, independent of The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the executive management.
This gives Martin Griffiths full executive responsibility Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led while retaining the ability to draw on Sir Brian Souters experience in that role.
by the Deputy Chairman, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
In his role as Chairman, Sir Brian Souters key responsibility is the running of All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the the Board.
Martin Griffiths is responsible for the running of the Groups Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary and may business and reports to Sir Brian Souter and to the Board directly.
All other take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense members of the executive management team report either directly or indirectly where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as to Martin Griffiths.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter Garry Watts, as well as being Deputy Chairman, is the Groups Senior for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns procedures are complied with.
which contact through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep 5.5 Board independence and balance abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman reviews the Directors training and development needs in conjunction with the Company The Directors biographies appear in section 3 of this Annual Report and Secretary.
Training can encompass health, safety, environmental, social and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board governance matters.
to lead and control the Group.
The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Chief Executive and Finance Director The number of full Board meetings during the year was seven.
The full Board Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an independent typically meets once a year at an operational location and regular viewpoint and create an overall balance.
The Executive and Non-Executive communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors between Directors have a complementary range of experience that ensures no one meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic and operational director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
The June 2013 Board meeting was combined with a Group The Code suggests that independent non-executive directors should make up management conference, allowing the Board members to gain a greater at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Throughout the period insight into the strategies being pursued by the Groups businesses and to meet from 1 May 2013 to 30 April 2014, the Board considers that it complied with a wide range of managers from throughout the Group.
In November 2013, the this Code requirement.
The current position is that two thirds of the Board Health, Safety and Environmental Committee of the Board visited the Groups members excluding the Chairman are independent.
tram operations in Sheffield to gain a greater understanding of how that business addresses the challenges of operating a tram network.
In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with principal following questions: responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are management?
proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or disposals.
Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board papers viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the Board considered Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Board during the year ended 30 April 2014 included: and its Committees?
The Groups bids to operate the Docklands Light Railway, and Thameslink, Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for the Southern and Great Northern franchises overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
Management succession planning Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the Potential business acquisitions Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy and executive managements running of the business?
Group strategy and development opportunities Sir Ewan Brown, one of the six independent Non-Executive Directors, has Risk management, including the management of Cyber risks served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble Developments in the litigation regarding Twin America and the trading Grossart, which has from time to time provided advice to the Company.
The performance of Twin America Company recognises and understands investor concerns over longer-serving Political and regulatory developments and potential developments, including non-executive directors but continues to regard Sir Ewan Brown as the Quality Contract proposals in North East England and changes in UK bus independent.
Sir Ewan Browns long association with the Group and the sound concessionary fares schemes and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed enables The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under review him to provide a robust and effective challenge to management.
The Board and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve the believes that Sir Ewan Browns length of service enhances his effectiveness as a Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better non-executive director and that he remains independent in character and control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
Six of the nine members of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are considered by the Board to be independent.
Even if Sir Ewan Brown is not Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where any treated as independent, the balance of the Executive and Non-Executive director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the running of Directors complies with the recommendations of the Code.
the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the minutes.
It In recognition of the factors suggested by the Code for determining is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the director is asked to independence, Sir Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration provide a written statement to the Chairman of any concerns leading to his or Committee or the Audit Committee.
All Directors stand for election or re-election at each annual general meeting of the Company.
5.7 Operational management of the Group The Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face- 5.6 Operation of the Board to-face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
With The Board is generally scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional effect from 1 May 2013, the Managing Director of the Groups London Bus meetings of the Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled operations reports directly to the Group Chief Executive.
Accordingly, there are Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next four principal operating divisions: page 34 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:37 Page 35 The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded UK Bus London : headed by a managing director that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective UK Bus regional operations : headed by a managing director and constructive manner.
North America: headed by a chief operating officer UK Rail: headed by the Group Chief Executive 5.9 Composition of Committees Each division comprises a number of autonomous business units, each headed The current composition of the various Board Committees is summarised by a chairman or managing director who is responsible for the day-today below: performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is supported by his or her own management teams.
Two of the joint ventures in Audit Committee which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail Group and Twin America LLC, are Number of members of Committee: 3 managed independently of the Group.
Each is headed by its own chief or lead All members are independent non-executive directors.
The Group has two representatives on the board of Virgin Rail Group and three representatives on the board of Twin America LLC.
The other trading Chairman and designated member with recent joint venture in which the Group has an interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches and relevant financial experience Limited, has a joint board.
The Group is responsible for the day-to-day Gregor Alexander Chairman from 1 July 2013 management of that business.
Other members Helen Mahy 5.8 Performance evaluation Phil White The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the Nomination Committee Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Deputy Chairman Number of members of Committee: 4 co-ordinates the Boards assessment of the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the All members are independent non-executive directors.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet Chairman without the Chairman being present.
The Chairman obtains feedback from Garry Watts each individual Director on the performance of the Board and other Board Other members members this typically involves the completion of a questionnaire which in Sir Ewan Brown 2014, was co-ordinated by SCT Consultants see below and a follow-up Helen Mahy from 1 September 2013 discussion.
In the same way, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Will Whitehorn obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is undertaken to assess the performance of each Remuneration Committee of the Boards committees.
Number of members of Committee: 4 The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its All members are independent non-executive directors.
In 2010, the Code was amended to include a recommendation that board performance evaluation should be externally facilitated at least Chairman every three years.
The Board appointed Margaret Exley of SCT Consultants to Phil White facilitate its evaluation in the year ended 30 April 2014.
Margaret Exleys Other members evaluation comprised one-to-one interviews with each director and the Gregor Alexander from 1 September 2013 Company Secretary, review of a questionnaire completed by each director and Garry Watts the Company Secretary, consideration of the papers from three Board Will Whitehorn meetings held in 2013 and consideration of other key documents.
Neither Margaret Exley, nor SCT Consultants, has any other connection with, or supplies any other services to the Group.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Directors also reviewed the effectiveness of each committee of which he Number of members of Committee: 5 or she is a member.
Chairman The assessment of effectiveness included consideration of: Helen Mahy The composition of the Board and its committees: Other members The balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Martin Griffiths Board: Ann Gloag The diversity of the Board: Phil White The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: Will Whitehorn from 1 September 2013 The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of the Group: 5.10 Reports from the Committees The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the Reports from each of the Committees of the Board are set out in sections 6 Board and its committees: and to 9 of this Annual Report.
The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters.
A report of SCT Consultants conclusions of the Board evaluation was presented and discussed at the April 2014 Board meeting.
The review was very positive about the Boards performance and capability.
SCT Consultants identified a small number of areas for development, which included increasing the breadth of the Boards discussions on strategy, further developing the pipeline of senior talent and streamlining the information provided to the Board.
The Chairman and Company Secretary will work with the Board to implement an action plan to address these areas over the course of the year to 30 April 2015.
The Board intends to continue to use external facilitation of its performance evaluation no less frequently than every third year.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 35 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:37 Page 36 Corporate governance report questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for 5.11 Individual director participation at shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of meetings topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose committees and the Annual General Meeting by directors during the year a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially ended 30 April 2014: separate issue.
Resolutions are taken on a show of hands and details of all proxy votes lodged for and against, or withheld, in respect of each resolution are given to the meeting.
Details of the proxy votes are also published on the PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration Groups website at http: www.
com investors shareholderIN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee services agm.
aspx Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible The Company and its registrars have established procedures to ensure that Sir Brian Souter 7 7 n a n a n a n a votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Martin Griffiths 7 7 n a n a n a n a 5.13 Risk management Gregor Alexander 7 7 3 3 2 2 The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Sir Ewan Brown 7 7 n a n a n a n a the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
Ann Gloag 7 7 n a n a n a n a The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised in section 2.3.
Helen Mahy 7 7 3 3 n a n a The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of Ross Paterson 7 7 n a n a n a n a business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some Garry Watts 7 7 1 1 3 3 cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing Phil White 7 7 3 3 3 3 and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its Will Whitehorn 7 7 n a n a 3 3 effectiveness.
The Groups system cannot provide absolute assurance but is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any Health, Safety significant risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with PARTICIPATION and Environmental Nomination Annual General appropriately.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and IN MEETINGS Committee Committee Meeting certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential Sir Brian Souter n a n a n a n a 1 1 severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is Martin Griffiths 4 4 n a n a 1 1 appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated Gregor Alexander n a n a n a n a 1 1 by the Group.
The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the Sir Ewan Brown n a n a 1 1 1 1 businesses for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2014 and up to Ann Gloag 4 4 n a n a 1 1 the date of the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control Helen Mahy 4 4 n a n a 1 1 environment and such reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the work Ross Paterson n a n a n a n a 1 1 of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are appropriately managed.
Garry Watts n a n a 1 1 1 1 The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control Phil White 4 4 n a n a 1 1 and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate Will Whitehorn 2 3 1 1 1 1 responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within 5.12 Relations with shareholders that unit.
The Board endeavours to present a fair, balanced and understandable Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is assessment of the Groups position and prospects in communications with ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division shareholders.
The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of maintaining a separate risk profile.
major institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to the financial media.
and managed by Deloitte LLP, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written improving, where possible, the Groups risk management process in the responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders.
The context of the Groups overall goals.
annual report is published in hard copy and on the Groups website.
The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the recommended by the external auditors.
Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business risk resolve concerns.
management processes through representation on the boards and in the case of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
Stagecoach management All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual General representatives also meet regularly with representatives of joint ventures to Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to ensure that all ensure that they follow appropriate risk management procedures.
the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer page 36 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:37 Page 37 5.14 Internal control A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
the system of risk management and internal control of the Group during the year.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, function.
identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and business unit to the management accounts received during the year and business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
obtains explanations for any material differences.
third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each business significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and safety, unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various levels of treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and review by the Group Finance function.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
The review includes checking internal control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal representation on the boards of the entities together with regular contact accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
between Stagecoach management and the management of the relevant The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated entities.
The Audit Committee receives reports from a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups management and the external auditors on significant judgements, senior management based on agreed financial and other performance changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
significant emphasis on cash flow management.
Bank balances are The financial statements of all material business units are subject to reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a fourexternal audit.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters including Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint ventures that updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, are audited by a different firm of auditors.
foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, 5.16 Pension schemes including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate acquired or divested.
from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom appropriate to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least three are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional annually by the management of each business confirming that they have basis and two are pensioner trustees.
The chairman of the trustees of the reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as a year.
fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and Funds investment council.
He also sits independently as an elected which is subject to regular monitoring.
representative of all railway employers on the board of the Railways Pension an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy with training and compliance Scheme and is the immediate past Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension monitoring.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and addressed in the normal course of business.
None of the weaknesses A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This identified in the year to 30 April 2014 have resulted in any material losses, Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Sir Ewan Brown, and also contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups comprises one executive director and other members of senior management.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and 5.15 Process for preparing consolidated financial propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may statements arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group.
key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks on By order of the Board internal financial controls periodically.
Management regularly monitors and considers developments in accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial Mike Vaux statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key Company Secretary finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial 25 June 2014 reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such developments.
