Nomination Committee report 7.1 Introduction from Garry Watts, Stagecoach 7.4 Board diversity Group Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the The Company believes strongly that its Board benefits from comprising talented people with a range of perspectives and from differing backgrounds Nomination Committee and the terms of reference of the Committee reflect this in the criteria for The Nomination Committee has an important place in the governance identifying suitable candidates for nomination to the Board.
structure of the Stagecoach Group.
To be effective a board needs to maintain The Committee notes that the Davies Review recommended that Chairmen of balance over time, taking account of planned and unplanned changes to the FTSE 350 companies should set out the percentage of women they aim to membership of the Board.
As Chairman of the Committee, I ensure that we have on their boards by 2013 and 2015.
The Company was co-founded by Ann regularly review our Board composition and ensure that the mix of skills Gloag and throughout its life as a listed company it has had at least one available is appropriate.
We are aware that talented individuals can come from woman on its Board and since May 2001, at least two.
There are currently ten diverse backgrounds and aim to promote greater diversity in the directors of the Company.
recommendations that we make to the Board.
While the Board had nine members, the Board stated its aspiration to The changes to the management team at the start of 2013 14 were consistent with the succession planning that had been in place and we continue to maintain the percentage of women on the Board at 22%.
By increasing the size of the Board to ten directors, the proportion of women has decreased develop our succession plans to provide the skills the Group needs in order to develop and implement the Groups strategy now and in the future.
The appointment of an additional director to the Board brings the benefit of an increased diversity of opinions and During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Boards knowledge to the Board.
The percentage of women on the Board is now 20% committees and recommended changes, which were put in place by the Board and the Board aspires to maintain at least this percentage in the future.
In from 1 September 2013. addition to board diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity at all We have reviewed the performance and length of service of our executive and levels of the organisation, further detail of which is provided in section 2.8.
4 non-executive directors and are pleased to be able to recommend all of our of the Strategic report.
board for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
7.5 Succession planning arrangements The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with Garry Watts clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head Chairman of the Nomination Committee office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in 25 June 2014 some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers 7.2 Composition of the Nomination who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group Committee operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates The composition of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business 5.9.
The Committee also invites other Non-Executive Directors to attend its units, both in the UK and North America.
The Nomination Committee ensures that appropriate succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination Committee and 7.3 Operation of the Nomination Committee the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers to ensure The Nomination Committee keeps under review the overall Board structure, succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without significant size and composition, and is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
The Committee believes that knowledge and experience of the Board.
Where appropriate the Committee it is important to develop and promote existing talent from within the will suggest adjustments to achieve that balance.
appointment, the Committee will prepare a description of the role and the In recognition of the importance of talent management, the new Chief attributes required of the candidates, which will include a job specification and Executive established and chaired during the year a new talent group involving the estimate of the time commitment expected.
In making any appointment, human resources, training and other professionals from within the Group.
The the Groups policy on directors having other significant commitments will be talent group looks to take a lead role to further enhance the recruitment, taken into account and potential candidates will be asked to disclose their retention and development of talented employees throughout the Group.
other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to meet Given the importance of succession planning, the views of all directors are what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any considered and not just the views of the members of the Committee.
significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
identifies and evaluates suitable candidates and makes proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
The appointments process takes account of the benefits of diversity of the Board, including gender diversity and in identifying suitable candidates the Committee considers candidates from a range of backgrounds.
The Nomination Committee compiles a shortlist of potential new nonexecutive directors by taking account of known candidates and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new appointments, the expected time commitment is agreed with the director and included in the letter of appointment.
No director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com media Files S StagecoachGroup Attachments about .
pdf page 42 | Stagecoach Group plc
