Audit Committee report 6.1 Introduction from Gregor Alexander, 6.4 Activities of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced and managed Following my appointment as Chair of the Audit Committee in July 2013, by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the I am pleased to present our Audit Committee report for the financial year scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements ended 30 April 2014.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Garry and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the Watts for his effective Chairmanship of the Audit Committee over the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence previous six years.
and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
This is our first Audit Committee report under the revised UK Corporate The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups Governance Code the Code, and it is our view that the recommendations website at in the Code have further strengthened the role of the Audit Committee as a http: www.
com media Files S Stagecoachkey independent oversight Committee of the Group.
pdf In response to the implementation of the revised version of the UK Corporate Gregor Alexander Governance Code, which applies to financial years commencing on or after Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 October 2012, the Board requested that the Committee advise them on 25 June 2014 whether it considers the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business 6.2 Composition of the Audit Committee model and strategy.
Having carefully considered this, the Committee The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 5.9. concluded positively and reported its conclusion to the Board.
The Gregor Alexander is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Committee did not consider it necessary to make significant changes to its Chartered Accountant.
Gregor is the Finance Director of SSE plc, a FTSE 100 processes to enable it to conclude on this matter because the controls and company, and is the designated Committee member with recent and relevant processes that were already in place in respect of the production of the financial experience.
Phil White is a former Finance Director and former Chief Annual Report and financial statements, and in respect of the provision of Executive of a FTSE 350 company and is also a Chartered Accountant.
Helen information to the Committee were viewed as being sufficient.
A new Mahy is a Barrister, an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute and was document was, however, provided to the Committee that summarised the the Company Secretary and General Counsel of a FTSE 100 company.
various sources of information and assurance that enabled the Committee to make the fair, balanced and understandable conclusion.
The sections that follow set out the areas that the Committee focused on 6.3 Operation of the Audit Committee during and in respect of the year ended 30 April 2014.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee retains discretion as to who from outside the Committee should attend its 6.4.
1 Financial Reporting meetings but generally invites the following to attend: The Groups interim and preliminary financial results, as well as its Annual Report, were reviewed and revised by the Audit Committee before The Group Finance Director: recommending their publication to the Board.
At each meeting, the Group Financial Controller: Committee discussed with management how they had applied critical The Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: accounting policies and judgements to these documents, having considered Representatives from the external auditors: reports from both the Groups management and the external auditors.
The Representatives from the Risk Assurance Function.
external auditors attended all meetings of the Committee and presented In addition, the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer are expected to audit plans and findings, amongst other matters.
present to the Committee at least annually.
The Committee considered a number of issues and accounting judgements The Committee may also invite other directors of the Company to attend in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2014, of meetings of the Committee and does so from time to time.
which it considered the most significant to be as follows: page 38 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:37 Page 39 Significant issues or judgements Work and conclusion of Audit Quantification Relevant notes to the considered by Audit Committee Committee consolidated financial statements Pensions The determination of the Groups The Committee considered the appropriateness of The total pensions expense 6, 25 pension benefit obligation and pension assumptions by receiving reports from recognised in the expense for defined benefit pension management outlining the basis of the consolidated income schemes is dependent on the selection assumptions used, comparing these assumptions statement for the year by the Directors of certain to those applied by other companies operating in ended 30 April 2014 was assumptions used by actuaries in the same sector as the Group as well as by listed 74.2m 2013 restated: calculating such amounts.
Those companies more generally, considering advice 66.0m and the net assumptions include the discount rate, from external actuaries and considering analysis retirement benefit liability annual rate of increase in future salary undertaken by the external auditors.
The as at 30 April 2014 was levels and mortality rates.
Committee noted that there were a range of 115.8m 2013 restated: acceptable assumptions but concluded that the 109.6m.
Insurance The estimation of the insurance The Committee discussed with management the The insurance provision in 24 provision in respect of traffic accidents key judgements made in determining the the consolidated balance and employee incidents is based on an insurance provision, challenging the methodology sheet as at 30 April 2014 was 140.9m 2013: assessment of the expected settlement used, and understanding the extent to which on known claims together with an estimates are supported by third party actuarial 141.3m.
estimate of settlements that will be advice and analysis provided by the external made in respect of incidents occurring auditors.
The Committee noted that there was a prior to the balance sheet but for which range of acceptable estimates for the year-end claims have not been reported to the insurance provision and after challenge, concluded Group.
that the amount of the insurance provision was at an appropriate point within that range.
Taxation The Committee considered the judgements made The consolidated tax charge 7, 23 in respect of tax by reviewing reports from for the year ended 30 April management outlining the basis of the 2014 was 25.5m 2013 assumptions, challenging the estimates formed restated: 27.8m.
and considering the extent to which third party The net consolidated tax professional advice and or historical experience liability as at 30 April 2014 informed the judgements.
The Committee met was 82.9m 2013 restated: with the Groups Tax Director, the Group Tax 74.4m.
Manager and a tax partner from the external auditors in April 2014.
The specific judgements considered by the Committee included the accounting for the tax effect of fuel derivatives, foreign exchange gains losses and the financing of foreign operations.
The Committee concluded that appropriate judgements had been made in determining the tax amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Twin America Litigation Certain of the Groups subsidiaries and The Committee considered the appropriateness of The carrying value of the 13, 31 one of its joint ventures, Twin liabilities held by the Group and its joint venture in Groups investment in Twin America, are party to litigation as respect of the Twin America litigation.
It America as at 30 April 2014 explained in note 31 to the considered this through discussion with was 28.5m 2013: 37.5m, consolidated financial statements.
management and consideration of relevant legal after deducting 11.6m The ultimate cost to the Group in advice.
It evaluated the range of possible outcomes 2013: 6.4m in respect of respect of this matter is uncertain.
and concluded that appropriate liabilities had been the Groups share of recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
liabilities related to the litigation.
The Group also assessed whether the carrying value of its investment in Twin America was impaired.
The Committee agreed that the projected future cash flows from Twin America supported the carrying value of Twin America in the Groups consolidated balance sheet as at 30 April 2014 but noted that a change in certain assumptions most notably, the rate of future revenue growth could result in an impairment loss.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 39 Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
108244 STC Front PRINT 108244 STC Front V12 03 07 2014 14:37 Page 40 Audit Committee report In addition to the significant accounting judgements set out above, the remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of Committee also considered other accounting and reporting matters in disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the respect of the year ended 30 April 2014, including the following: external auditors.
Exceptional items The Committee considered the appropriateness of the Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit amounts disclosed as exceptional items in the financial statements and the Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the adequacy of the disclosure related to such items.
In respect of the year Group and the auditors.
This review includes: ended 30 April 2014, the Committee considered the proposal to no longer the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval treat certain gains and losses from the disposal of land and buildings as of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to exceptional items.
The Committee concluded that this was appropriate auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: because such gains and losses were generally not material and arose in the the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: normal course of business.
Also, it noted that the proposed approach the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which would enhance comparability with other listed peers.
have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm Acquisition accounting Establishing the acquisition-date fair values of or offices of the same firm are involved: and assets and liabilities assumed in business combinations involves discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
judgements, particularly in assessing whether contractual commitments The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit are favourable or unfavourable to market terms.
The Committee reviewed process on an annual basis in the context of the wider assurance processes the acquisition accounting for business combinations in the year.
As well as undertaking its own assessment of the audit year ended 30 April 2014, there were no material business combinations effectiveness, the Committee also considers the views of a number of finance and so the consolidated financial statements were not particularly sensitive managers from various parts of the Group.
The auditor assessment to the assumptions made in respect of these.
The acquisition of questionnaire is completed on an annual basis and examines three main businesses from Coach America in the year ended 30 April 2013 was more performance criteria robustness of the audit process, quality of delivery and significant and the Committee considered the accounting for that quality of people and service.
This assessment also includes consideration of acquisition at the appropriate time.
the auditors independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant laws, Rail franchise opportunities In light of the range of opportunities facing regulations and professional requirements.
The assessment involves the Groups UK Rail Division, the Committee considered whether any considering all relationships between the Group and the auditors, including actual or anticipated changes in the commercial terms or duration of rail the nature and quantum of non-audit services.
Assurances are obtained from franchises resulted in any changes in accounting estimates.
The the auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business, Committee concluded that the accounting estimates in the consolidated employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that could financial statements had been appropriately updated for such franchise affect the auditors independence and objectivity, taking account of relevant changes.
The auditors explain to the Audit Committee their policies Impairment and onerous contracts In addition to considering whether and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance the carrying value of the Groups investment in Twin America was with relevant requirements.
impaired, the Committee also considered whether any adjustments were The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each required to the consolidated financial statements for impairments of any year before making a recommendation to the Board and shareholders.
The other assets and or onerous contracts.
The Committee concluded that no Committee assesses the independence and effectiveness of the external material impairment losses or new provisions for onerous contracts ought auditor on an ongoing basis and the ethical standards require that, other in to be recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
exceptional circumstances, the audit partner responsible for the Group audit Other liabilities The Committee considered the judgments made in rotates every five years.
The current lead partner has been in place for three respect of certain other liabilities, and considered them to be appropriate.
The current auditors have been in place since 2002 and this was the The Audit Committee also reviewed the evidence that supported the last year an audit tender was conducted.
conclusion that the Group remained a going concern, noting it was The Committee recognises the current requirements of the latest version of consistent with the disclosure given in section 4.12 of this Annual Report.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and transitional guidance in relation to audit tendering, and also notes the European Union text on Audit 6.4.
2 External auditors Regulation and Directive and the UK Competition Commission now the Competition and Markets Authority response to conduct further The external auditors presented a detailed audit plan to the Committee, consultation on audit tendering.
setting out their analysis of significant audit risks and key judgemental accounting matters, which would inform their planned scope and approach Ongoing deliberations by these bodies might result in further requirements to the current year audit.
For the year ended 30 April 2014, the most or recommendations on audit rotation or tendering.
We therefore intend to significant risks identified were in relation to provisioning for insurance await the results of these deliberations before making any firm decisions on claims, taxation, pensions accounting and the Twin America litigation and the timing of tendering the audit.
At this point, we envisage that the timing impairment assessment, based on the inherent level of management of the next audit tender will be such that a change of auditor, if any, occurs judgement required in these areas.
These risks are monitored through the following the end of the five-year term of the current lead audit partner in year and the Committee challenged the work done by the auditors to test 2016. managements assumptions and estimates.
The Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of Private meetings were held with the external auditors at each Committee external auditors.
meeting without the presence of management.
The Committee Chairman The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance also holds meetings with the external auditors between Committee during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
considered the audit fee of 0.8m 2013: 0.8m for  The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making LLP appropriate and concluded that an effective audit can be conducted for recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and such a fee.
5 Code of Conduct and Speaking Up Policy Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in place to The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct safeguard audit objectivity and independence.
The Groups policies on nonand use of the Groups Speaking Up policy, which provides a mechanism for audit services are: employees with serious concerns about the conduct of the Group or its Audit related services These are services that the auditors must undertake employees to report those concerns.
The Committee ensures that appropriate or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately upon a services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular interest in and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the Group Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each were reported to and considered by the Committee, although there were no specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills such matters that were sufficiently material to merit disclosure in the Annual and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors Report.
The Committee also received and considered updates on litigation for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the involving the Group, although other than the Twin America litigation referred work being undertaken.
1 above, there were no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit separate disclosure in the Annual Report.
General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select an advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general 6.4.
6 Other activities consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work The Committee has considered a range of other matters at its three meetings being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general over the last year and received various reports and presentations as follows: consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director on the Groups satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the tax affairs, significant tax accounting judgements and tax risks.
The Group audit teams independence or a conflict of interest that could not be Treasury team presented on the Groups treasury affairs and management effectively safeguarded.
In addition to the audit fee,  LLP received non-audit As part of the Committees ongoing training and development, both related fees of 0.1m 2013: 0.1m, which equate to 12.5% 2013: 12.5% of management and the external auditors updated the Committee on the audit fee and further details of which can be found in note 3 of the developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, guidance for consolidated financial statements.
audit committees, the Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services does Governance Code, legislation affecting the Group more generally and not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit other relevant regulatory developments and guidance.
obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used Rail Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
The Groups Finance where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or Director is Chairman of the Virgin Rail Group Audit Committee.
where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
The Minutes of the Treasury Committee meetings comprising members of Committee will, however, of course review its policy on non-audit services management were shared with the Audit Committee.
from time to time, to ensure continued compliance with laws and The Committee reviewed a summary of the Directors expense claims.
regulations, including European Union legislation.
4 Internal auditors 6.5 Committee evaluation The Committee has received several reports from Deloitte, which manages The Committees activities formed part of the external review of Board the outsourced Risk Assurance Function internal auditors, detailing the effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this review are provided in planned schedule of audits as well as tracking key findings and any related section 5.8.
Overall, the Committee considers that it has continued to operate material actions to address unsatisfactory results.
Deloitte attended all effectively during the year.
meetings of the Committee, in addition to meeting privately with the Committee without the presence of management.
The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance function on an annual basis.
