Governance Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholder, Part of the Committees remit is to review on a regular basis the composition and experience of the Board, its Committees and senior management to ensure that the range of skills, breadth of experience and diversity are fully accommodated.
To this end, I am delighted that we have been able to appoint Jeff Harris as Senior Independent Director.
Jeff is a chartered accountant and brings with him experience beneficial to the Company.
In addition, we have commenced a search for an additional Non-Executive Director with the help of a rm of external search consultants, which will add to and underpin the Boards skills base and experience.
As you will see from the Corporate Governance report, we have a good mix of skills, experience and length of service amongst your Board of Directors and I expect this to continue.
We have commissioned an externally led, independent Board evaluation which will be reviewed by the Board and will form the basis for the overall succession planning for the Board and its Committees.
The outcome of this review will be included in the 2015 Annual Report.
Sir Duncan Nichol Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4 June 2014 70 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Nomination Committee members Sir Duncan Nichol Chairman Jeff Harris Constance Baroudel Liz Hewitt Committee activity Jeff Harris, the Senior Independent Director, was appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2013.
Only members of the Committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited by the Committee to attend if appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all potential appointments to the Board and for making suitable proposals to the Board in relation to potential appointments.
It meets as and when Board appointments or other senior positions within the Group are made.
The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and transparent procedures to be followed by the Committee in making its recommendations and appointments to the Board.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it considers necessary.
This may include the appointment of external executive search consultants where considered appropriate.
The Committee met twice during the year.
For the proposed new Non-Executive Director role, the Company has engaged a rm of external search consultants to handle the search and recruitment process.
The Nomination Committee will be fully involved with both the recruitment and assessment of potential candidates.
Ashortlist of candidates will be put through a rigorous assessment process and final candidates will be interviewed by the whole Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the market place.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for executive Board appointments although the Board is itself responsible for succession generally.
The Boards diversity and equal opportunities policies are set out in the Employee engagement and Women on Boards sections of the Corporate Governance report on pages 47 and 48 respectively.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71
