Governance Board of Directors RC NC SEB SEB SEB Sir Duncan Nichol Dr Richard Steeves Gavin Hill Dr Adrian Coward Chairman Group Chief Executive officer Group Finance Director Group Chief Operating officer Sir Duncan became a Non-Executive Richard founded the business in 1991 Gavin joined Synergy Health as Group Adrian joined the Group in 2004 as Director in November 2002.
He was and was appointed Chief Executive Finance Director in April 2010.
He was Director of IT and was later appointed chief executive of the National Health officer in 1992.
Previously he was previously director, Corporate Finance Managing Director for the UK HSS Service Management Executive corporate development manager for for Serco Group plc following a division.
Adrian previously worked for a between 1989 and 1994, a nonBraithwaite plc, a plant hire company, number of divisional finance director scientific and IT consultancy company executive director of BUPA between and associate consultant with strategic and commercial roles.
Prior to Serco, providing solutions to engineering and 1994 and 2002 and a non-executive consultants, LEK Consulting.
Richard Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and R&D companies.
Adrian has a BSc director at the Christie NHS has a PhD in Biochemistry from St AstraZeneca plc in both Finance inMathematics and a PhD in Applied Foundation Trust between 2008 and Johns College, Cambridge anda BSc andCorporate Treasury.
Sir Duncan is currently 1st Class Hons in Human Physiology chartered accountant and associate CEO UK & Ireland In June 2010 before chairman of Lorica Employee Benets from the University of British Columbia member of the Association of taking up the role of Group Chief Ltd, chairman of the Countess of in Vancouver, Canada.
Gavin is also Operating officer in March 2014.
Chester NHS Trust and a nonrecently appointed non-executive aTrustee of the Groups three dened executive director of Deltex Medical chairman ofToumaz plc, a UK benefit pension schemes.
He is also semiconductor company focusing Chairman of Skills for Justice and ondigital radio, connected audio theAcademy for Healthcare Science.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Duncan was appointed as Chairman of the Board in June 2012.
RC AC NC RC AC NC RC AC NC Constance Baroudel Liz Hewitt Jeff Harris Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Constance was appointed to the Board Liz was appointed to the Board as a Jeff was appointed to the Board as as a Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in September Senior Independent Director in September 2010 and is Chairman of 2011 and is Chairman of the Audit September 2013.
Jeff read Zoology the Remuneration Committee and a Committee and a member of the atSouthampton University and is member of the Audit and Nomination Remuneration and Nomination achartered accountant.
She is currently the Committees.
She is also a nonUniChem, a co-operative UK managing director of the Solution executive director of Novo Nordisk pharmaceutical wholesaler, in 1985 as business at fide La Rue plc.
Prior to fide A S, a non-executive director of chief accountant and worked his way La Rue she was a senior consultant for Melrose Industries PLC and an up to be chief executive and then Strategic Decisions Group.
Constance external member of the House of chairman of Alliance UniChem plc.
attended lInstitut detudes politiques Lords Audit Committee.
She was During that time the Co-operative fide Paris where she majored in previously a non-executive director became a plc and oated on the Corporate Finance and International ofan NHS Trust and a trustee of London Stock Exchange.
Constance also has an Cancer Research UK.
Liz has served on a number of boards as MScin International Accounting extensive experience in finance, a non-executive director, senior andFinance from the London School healthcare and private equity having independent director and chairman, ofEconomics.
worked at CVC, 3i Group plc and including Filtrona plc now Essentra Smith & Nephew plc.
She is a plc, Cookson plc, W H Smith plc, chartered accountant and has a Bunzl plc and Associated British degree inEconomics from University Foods plc.
He has also served as CollegeLondon.
thechairman of trustees for various charities.
42 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
