Senior Executive Board SEB SEB SEB Tim Mason Niclas Olsson Andrew McLean Group Company Secretary CEO, Asia & Africa President, AST Americas Tim joined the Group in September Niclas was appointed CEO of the Asia Andrew holds the dual role of 2009.
He was previously group & Africa region in June 2012.
Niclas Vice President, AST Business company secretary of Compass Group worked for the Getinge Group for 10 Development and President, AST plc as well as being director and years in a variety of management Americas.
Andrew joined Synergy company secretary of their UK & positions, culminating in five years Health in June 2013 from Becton Ireland holding company.
Previously as president of Getinge China.
His Dickinson and previously Pzer.
Tim held senior corporate secretariat speciality is infection control in During his employment with both positions with HP Bulmer holdings plc, emerging markets, with experience organisations, Andrews career AMEC plc and Grand Metropolitan plc.
in Eastern Europe, India, South East spanned multiple global geographies Tim is a Fellow of the Institute of Asia and China.
Prior to joining and business leadership roles.
Chartered Secretaries and Getinge, he was marketing director Andrew holds a Bachelors degree Administrators and holds an for Sanmina-SCI, a world leading in Economics, a Masters of MA in Professional Administration.
outsourcing company, and business Management, and an MBA Tim is also Secretary of the area manager Industrial Automation from Macquarie University in Company's Audit, Remuneration for Mannesman Rexroth in Sweden.
and Nomination Committees and Niclas has a Mechanical Engineering Chairman of Trustees for each of degree and is a graduate of the theGroups three dened benefit University of Lund.
Changes to the Synergy Health plc Board of Directors in 2014 Sir Duncan Nichol will continue as Chairman Dr Richard Steeves will continue as Group Chief Executive officer SEB Dr Adrian Coward was appointed Group Chief Ray Reilly Operating officer with effect Group HR Director from 31 March 2014 Ray joined Synergy Health in July 2012 as part the SRI Surgical Express Jeff Harris was appointed Inc. acquisition in the Americas.
In Senior Independent Director May 2014 Ray was promoted to the with effect from position of Executive Vice President, 1September 2013 Global Human Resources.
He was previously employed in regional human resource roles with Sodexo Board key as well as healthcare operations management roles with both Sodexo RC Remuneration Committee and Marriott Management Services.
Ray holds a Bachelors of Science AC Audit Committee degree in Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional Management from Indiana NC Nomination Committee University of Pennsylvania and a Committee Chairman Masters of Science in Human Resources and Industrial Relations SEB Senior Executive Board from Saint Francis University.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
