Governance Corporate governance report Executive Director since November 2002, the Board believes The role of The Board Sir Duncan Nichol is independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board is the principal decision making forum for the Group He brings to the Board significant experience of the wider health providing entrepreneurial leadership, both directly and through its sector and by his conduct has displayed the highest corporate committees, as well as delegating authority for the day-to-day governance standards.
Finally, the Board believes that Sir Duncan management of the Group to the SEB.
Nichol will play a pivotal role in the development and succession The Board is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the planning of the Board, particularly given the relatively recent Group in a manner most likely to achieve success for the benefit of its appointments to the Board.
Whilst not directly involved in the shareholders.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for: discussions surrounding the potential appointment of Dr Richard Steeves as his successor in the role of Chairman, Sir Duncan Nichol Setting the Groups strategic objectives: was involved in the discussions surrounding the potential replacement The creation and delivery of strong sustainable financial and of Dr Richard Steeves by Dr Adrian Coward as CEO designate.
With operational performance: effect from 1 September 2013, Jeff Harris was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
Ensuring that, in carrying out its duties, the Groups legal and regulatory obligations are being met: and Schedule of matters reserved for the Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, Ensuring that the Group operates within appropriately established which it reviews and agrees annually, but also delegates specic risk parameters.
responsibilities to a senior committee, the SEB, and certain Board The Groups UK-regulated entities are accountable to the Financial committees.
Specic responsibilities reserved for the Board include: Conduct Authority FCA.
Setting and amending the Groups overall business strategy, strategic UK Corporate Governance Code compliance business plan and the annual operating budget: The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Approval of the Annual Report and financial statements, interim governance set out in the Code and is accountable to the Companys dividends and recommendation of the final dividend: shareholders for good governance.
This report describes how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Code Approval of any changes to the Companys capital structure during the year under review.
including the raising of additional capital and the purchase of the Companys shares: Compliance statement The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has been in Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or compliance with the principles of the Code up to the date of this practices: report except where any non-compliance is disclosed and explained.
Approval of contracts with annual revenue in excess of 5 million: The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, is required to review whether the Approval of any investment or disposal of the share capital of another above statement reects the Companys compliance with the provisions company greater than 5% of the Companys market value: of the Code, specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and to report if it does not reect compliance.
No such Approval of the acquisition of assets with a consideration in excess report has been made by KPMG LLP.
of10 million, and any disposal of assets greater than 2.5 million: The following statements set out the principles and methods to which Approval of any capital expenditure in excess of 10 million: they adhere.
Major changes in the rules of the Company pension schemes, The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual orchanges of trustees or fund management arrangements: Report and the financial statements is set out in the Directors report Approval of changes to the employee share and other incentive on page 74. schemes and the allocation of executive share options: The Board All Stock Exchange related issues including approval of As at 30 March 2014, the Board of Directors was made up of communications to the Stock Exchange: six members, comprising a Non-Executive Chairman who was independent on his appointment, three further Non-Executive Establishing Board membership and powers including the Directors and two Executive Directors.
appointment and removal of Board members and the Group Company Secretary: On 25 July 2013, following consultation with a number of major shareholders, it was announced that Dr Richard Steeves, GroupChief Establishing terms of reference and membership of the Executive officer, would succeed Sir Duncan Nichol as Non-Executive Board committees: Chairman of the Group upon Sir Duncan Nichols retirement on 31 Approval of all related party transactions: March 2014 and that Dr Adrian Coward would take over as Group Chief Executive officer.
However, due to the expanding opportunity for the Setting the remuneration of the auditors and making growth in outsourced Hospital Sterilisation services in the US, the Board recommendations for the appointment or removal of auditors: has decided that Dr Richard Steeves should defer his move from Group Approving any major changes in policy with respect to risks covered Chief Executive officer to Chairman and Sir Duncan Nichol should by insurance: similarly delay his retirement.
Approving all treasury matters including the setting of policies to Dr Adrian Coward, who was regional CEO for the UK & Ireland region, enter into contracts that are not in the ordinary course of business will now take on a broader role as Group Chief Operating officer for the and authorising bank facilities including bank borrowing, other loans Group as a whole and joined the Board with effect from 31 March and internal rate swaps, and approval of all foreign currency 2014.
Notwithstanding that Sir Duncan Nichol has been a Nontransactions in excess of 5 million: 44 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overseeing the Groups main controls and their effectiveness: The Board is the principal Other matters including health and safety and risk management: decision making forum for the The review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements: and Group providing entrepreneurial The annual review of its own performance and that of its Committees.
leadership, both directly and Board activity during 2014 At each scheduled meeting the Board received updates from the through its committees as well Executive Directors on the operational and financial performance of the Group.
as delegating authority for day-toBoard meetings are structured around the following areas: day management of the Group Operational and functional updates: Financial updates: to the SEB.
Strategy and risk: Progress against strategy including potential acquisitions : Meetings and attendance Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the Human Resources: committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Other reporting and items for approval: and Group to perform their duties.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings they receive papers for that meeting, giving them the Feedback from the committees.
opportunity to raise any issues with the Chairman in advance of the The Board composition ensures that the above areas are carefully meeting.
The number of scheduled Board and committee meetings of considered and that best and independent judgement is applied which they are a member attended by each Director during2014 is tothem.
provided in the table below.
For 2015, items that are required to be considered on an annual basis Directors receive papers several days in advance of Board meetings will be included on an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure bymeans of an electronic Board Pad facility, which provides greater that they are not overlooked and are considered at the appropriate point exibility for the Directors to access papers and also have access in the financial and regulatory cycle.
totheadvice and services of the Companys advisors.
Strategy All Board and committee meetings during the year were held in an open The Board sets aside at least two consecutive days each year to atmosphere conducive to constructive challenge and debate.
Additional conduct a review of its strategy with the SEB and other senior executives meetings are called when required and there is contact between in attendance for certain sessions as appropriate.
meetings, where necessary, to progress the Groups business.
Strategic items are also discussed at each Board meeting.
Risk and risk The Company Secretary management is considered side by side with strategy and is included in All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group our operational reporting.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Group Company Secretary provides updates to the Board on regulatory and corporate governance issues, new legislation, and Directors duties and obligations.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is one ofthematters reserved for the Board.
Board meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 13 4 6 2 Sir Duncan Nichol 13 of 13 1 of 1 6 of 6 2 of 2 Dr Richard Steeves 13 of 13 Gavin Hill 13 of 13, Jeff Harris 7 of 8 3 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 1 Constance Baroudel 13 of 13 4 of 4 6 of 6 2 of 2 Liz Hewitt 13 of 13 4 of 4 6 of 6 2 of 2 1 Jeff Harris was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2013.
2 The meetings not attended by Jeff Harris were held on the same day.
Jeff was unable to attend due to a pre-arranged commitment, agreed before his appointment to the Board.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed Roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive officer necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive officer are separate expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the and clearly dened with the division of responsibilities set out in writing access that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary.
In the and approved by the Board.
The Chairmans principal responsibilities year under review, as well as advice from the external auditors, KPMG are to chair the Board and shareholder meetings and to ensure the LLP, and Grant Thornton UK LLP, advice was also taken from Deloitte effective running of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive Ofcers LLP by the Remuneration Committee.
principal responsibility is leading the SEB in the day-to-day running of the Groups business.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Board effectiveness officer meet regularly between meetings.
As stated in the 2013 Annual Report, it was the Companys intention tocarry out an independent external evaluation of the Boards Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and without performance and all of its Committees in 2014, in order to comply the presence of the Group Chief Executive officer, take place regularly.
The Board has arranged to hold Board meetings at Group business locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the The Board has appointed Lintstock Ltd 'Lintstock', an independent business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group external consultant which has conducted external evaluations for a with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the number of FTSE 250 companies, to undertake a board evaluation Directors on more informal occasions.
Lintstock has had no connection with the Company previously.
are also invited to attend the Groups Leadership Conference, which The first stage of the review has commenced, with Lintstock engaging is normally held annually.
with the Chairman, Company Secretary and Chief Executive in order to Board balance set the context of the evaluation and to tailor the questionnaires used The Board continues to give careful consideration to its structure and to the specic circumstances of the Company.
The Board remains satisfied that it has the All respondents will then be requested to complete an online appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge questionnaire addressing Board, committee, chairman and individual of the Group to enable it and its committees to discharge their duties performance.
The anonymity of all respondents is ensured throughout and responsibilities effectively, as required by the Code.
The table the process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
opposite details the length of service of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Lintstock will subsequently produce a report addressing the areas covered in the questionnaire.
It is also envisaged that Lintstock will The Board will, in the near future, be making a further Non-Executive conduct a follow-up appraisal next year involving an interview Directorship appointment to expand the current skills and experience component, to follow up on any issues raised in this years process.
The Company has engaged a rm of external search The review content for each subsequent evaluation is designed to consultants to assist with the appointment.
The recruitment process build upon learning gained in the previous year, to ensure that the is being led by Sir Duncan Nichol as Chairman of the Nomination recommendations agreed in the review are implemented and that Committee, supported by the Committee and the Group Company year-on-year progress will be measured.
Biographical details of the Directors currently in ofce are shown on page 42.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 54.
The Directors biographies demonstrate the broad range of skills and experience on the Board.
The procedure for appointing Directors is detailed in the Nomination Committee section below.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for xed periods of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be extended for two further three-year periods, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered ofce or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman performs a number of other non-executive roles outside the Group and details of these are included in the Chairmans biography.
The Board continues to be satisfied that these other commitments are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties for the Group and will not impact on his ability to allocate sufficient time to discharge effectively his responsibilities to the Group.
46 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Jeff Harris is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Equal opportunities are available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, sex normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive officer, or Group including gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade union inappropriate.
He is also responsible for leading the Boards discussion membership.
on the Chairmans performance and the appointment of a new The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Chairman, as and when appropriate.
employment from people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who have a Independence of Non-Executive Directors disability or become disabled in any way during the course of their The Company requires Non-Executive Directors to be independent of employment.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken management so that they are able to exercise independent oversight and reasonable adjustments are made to the work environment or and effectively challenge management.
The Company continually practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
assesses the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company has determined that all of the Non-Executive Directors All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of are independent in accordance with the Code requirements.
None of recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies the Non-Executive Directors or their immediate families has ever had a and conditions.
All decisions are based on relative merits and abilities.
material relationship with the Group.
None of them receive additional The Group continues to employ multiple channels of communication remuneration apart from Directors Fees, nor do they participate in the and is committed to improving these channels so that all employees Groups share plans or pension schemes.
None of them serve as have access to information as well as having an opportunity to express directors of any companies or afliates in which any other Director their views and ideas on matters affecting their employment and isadirector.
More importantly, each of the Non-Executive Directors is prepared toquestion and challenge management, to request more information Channels include: and to pursue difficult questions.
They insist on robust responses, Employee forums and, where appropriate, works councils: bothwithin the Boardroom and sometimes between Board meetings.
TheGroup Chief Executive officer is open to challenge from the NonTouch Point, the Group intranet site: Executive Directors and uses this positively to provide more detail and Ethics hotline: toreect further on issues.
Regular leadership briengs followed by communication Professional development cascades team briengs: On appointment, Directors take part in a comprehensive induction Employee satisfaction surveys: programme whereby they receive financial and operational information about the Group, as well as information about their responsibilities and Health and safety surveys: duties and an introduction to the Groups governance, regulatory and Regular business updates via circulars: and control environment.
Communication via Yammer, a professional social networking tool.
This induction is supplemented by visits to the Groups head ofce in Swindon and the European head ofce in Derby, overseas ofces, Employment policies are updated in a timely way to reect legislative and meetings with members of the senior management team and their changes, and training to communicate or embed change is developed departments.
Development and training of Directors is an ongoing and rolled out as appropriate.
Throughout their period in ofce the Directors are regularly Training is provided as required to ensure that we have a skilled updated on the Groups business, legal matters concerning their role workforce: this requires a balance of training for the work our employees and duties, the competitive environments in which the Group operates, do now, and developing and preparing people for the future.
and any other significant changes affecting the Group and the industry of which it is a part.
Where appropriate, the Board receives For several years the Company has operated a Savings Related Share presentations from senior managers within the Group.
Option Scheme for UK-based employees, which gives employees an opportunity to enter into a savings contract for a xed period, with an Employee engagement opportunity to acquire shares in the Company at the end of that period.
The Group recognises the impact that positive employee engagement has on developing a culture of excellence, maintaining organisational stability and fostering an environment in which people feel valued andincluded.
Current length of service Director Date of appointment Length of service Sir Duncan Nichol 01.11.2002 11 years 7 months Constance Baroudel 01.09.2010 3 years 9 months Liz Hewitt 01.09.2011 2 years 9 months Jeff Harris 01.09.2013 9 months Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Chairman, as required, will hold meetings during the year with Women on Boards major shareholders and other stakeholders, and will discuss with the The Board has discussed the guidance issued by Lord Davies of Board any matters raised with him.
Abersoch in his report Women on Boards and the Code.
Women currently comprise 28.6% of the members of the Board.
The Board External analysts reports are circulated to all Directors and Investec, the hopes the Group will be in a position to maintain this level of Companys brokers, produce a monthly investor relations report, which representation when renewing Board membership over the coming is circulated to the Board.
The report contains details of any significant years.
However, this will always be subject to the overriding need to changes to the shareholders register.
ensure that appointments are made on merit and having regard to an It is proposed that the next AGM be held at the ofces of Investec Bank appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on Wednesday 23 July 2014 required on the Board.
The Davies Report also examines the gender at 10.30a.
m. notice of which will be sent to shareholders with the diversity at management levels below the board and has asked that Annual Report.
chairmen, in consultation with their CEOs, identify two female candidates from their senior management team and give them the Business at the Companys 2014 AGM will cover the Annual Report opportunity to serve as non-executive directors on other company and financial statements, the Remuneration Report, the Directors boards.
The Group has a number of initiatives to improve diversity at a Remuneration Policy, the declaration of a final dividend, election and senior management level but recognises that these will take time to be re-election of Directors, appointment and remuneration of auditors, reected in the number of women in the senior management team.
To political donations and political expenditure, authority to allot shares, accelerate the number of women in senior management positions, the disapplication of pre-emption rights, purchase by the Company of its Group has set up Synergy For Women.
own shares, and the notice period for general meetings.
Synergy for Women has a vision to: Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as Secure increased representation of women in senior leadership well as abstentions, are counted before the AGM and the results will be roles in the Group, made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on each and a mission to: resolution on a show of hands.
Promote a working environment which encourages women to aspire All shareholders are invited to the AGM.
The Chairmen of the Audit, to senior positions within the Group.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend the AGM along with the other Directors and are available to answer shareholders questions The initiative started in the UK & Ireland region, with representatives on the activities of the Committees they chair.
Shareholders also have from all divisions and functions.
The initiative has recently been an opportunity to meet with Directors after the formal business of the extended to operate globally and an international steering group has meeting has been concluded.
Details of proxy voting by shareholders been set up to encourage similar womens groups in Europe & Middle are made available on request and are placed on the Companys East, the Americas and Asia & Africa.
The initiative is also being website following the meeting.
sponsored internally by Dr Adrian Coward, Group Chief Operating officer and Dr Richard Steeves, Group Chief Executive officer.
As a Results of 2013 AGM result of the initiative, female employees can expect to see, amongst The table below details the voting results of the previous AGM: other things, growing opportunities for networking, career support and condential counselling.
Total votes Total votes for % against % Female employees make up approximately 46.5% of all employees 1 Companys Annual Report and Accounts 100.0 0.0 within the Group.
2 Directors Remuneration Report 99.3 0.7 The Board will continue to review its approach on gender diversity, 3 Final dividend 100.0 0.0 particularly in the context of any developing guidance in this area.
4 Re-elect Sir Duncan Nichol 97.1 2.9 Relations with shareholders 5 Re-elect Dr Richard Steeves 99.8 0.2 The Group Chief Executive officer, Group Finance Director and Group Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective 6 Re-elect Gavin Hill 99.8 0.2 communication with shareholders.
The Company places considerable 7 Re-elect Constance Baroudel 99.9 0.1 importance on communication with the shareholders including its 8 Re-elect Liz Hewitt 99.9 0.1 employee shareholders and all other stakeholders.
9 Appointment of auditors 100.0 0.0 Apart from the Annual General Meeting AGM, the Company 10 Auditors remuneration 99.9 0.1 communicates with its shareholders by way of the Annual Report and 11 Allow political donations 99.3 0.7 financial statements, which are available to all shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be accessed via the Companys 12 Allot relevant securities 99.3 0.7 website.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all 13 Allot equity securities 100.0 0.0 announcements issued by the London Stock Exchange, are 14 Make market purchases 99.9 0.1 published on the Companys website.
15 14 days notice of general meetings 95.4 4.6 The Company also communicates with its institutional shareholders through a combination of analysts briengs throughout the year but particularly at the interim and year end results stage.
48 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Conicts of interest Control procedures There are procedures in place to deal with Directors conicts of interest Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have been arising under the Companies Act 2006 and such procedures have developed for each of the Groups businesses.
The implications of change operated effectively during the year.
in law and regulations are taken into account in those procedures.
Internal control Monitoring process The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key controls.
Group systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of The significant components are: those controls.
Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of the Code, by the Group Risk Management Director, the Group Quality Director, the Turnbull Report and the Listing Rules and an ongoing process has the Group IT Director, senior finance managers and the Group been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks Finance team: and faced by the Group.
Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying andassessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk theworkofexternal audit and direct access to Group and offailureto achieve the Groups objectives.
reasonable, not absolute, assurances against material misstatement orloss.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with The Board confirms that it has considered the effectiveness of the .
Groups system of internal controls described above for the financial The Group appointed Grant Thornton UK LLP during the year to provide year and up to the date of this report.
Internal Audit services across the Group.
Board committees The Group has a Group finance function that reports to the Group The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Finance Director and is independent of the business units to ensure committees to deal with matters in accordance with written terms objectivity and control when preparing Group financial information.
of reference, as well as the SEB.
The Group finance function undertakes financial reviews of the regional Senior Executive Board finance functions on an ad hoc basis and provides technical and The SEB is the key management committee and comprises the Group commercial support when required.
Chief Executive officer, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Operating officer, Group HR Director, Group Company Secretary and the CEOs Assessment of business risk of each of the geographic regions of the Group.
Existing and emerging business risks have been identied, assessed and evaluated during the year as part of the Groups management The SEB meets regularly and is primarily responsible for: processes.
The formal risk management framework led by the Group The management of all the Groups businesses: Risk Management Director ensures that risks are effectively and consistently managed and reported on.
The corporate risk management Delivering the strategy and the agreed business plans and budgets system is covered in the report of principal risks and uncertainties on which have been approved by the Board: page 33.
The Board regularly reviews strategic risks.
Implementing Group policy: Control environment Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for agreed business plan and strategy: reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board including: Monitoring all risks operational, financial and reputational : The denition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise.
Detailed appraisal documents are produced for any major Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system capital projects: ofinternal control on a day-to-day basis: and A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that are Managing the business in a manner appropriate for a produced at least twice a year: FTSE 250 company.
A review of monthly management accounts at Group and operational level, including financial performance, together with balance sheet and cash ow analysis, which are reported against budget, forecasts and prior year with major variances explained: and A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing on any new risks arising and management of existing risks.
On an annual basis the Group finance function undertakes a review of financial controls as part of its year end process, which is considered by the Board.
The annual review gives a comprehensive update on the previous years report and outlines actions taken to redress any weaknesses in each regional business and across Group functions.
The review also highlights areas where improved controls have been implemented and key actions to be addressed in the coming financial year, which are monitored by both the Board and the Audit Committee.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Governance Corporate governance report continued Board Senior Nomination Remuneration Audit Executive Committee Committee Committee Board Principal committees The principal committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination all comply fully with the requirements of the Code.
All committees are chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director, except the Nomination Committee, which comprises Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, whom the Company deems independent.
Appointments to the committees are made on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and are for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for two further three-year periods, provided the Director remains independent.
The committees are constituted with written terms of reference that are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate and reect any changes in good practice and governance.
These terms of reference are available on request from the Group Company Secretary and can also be found on the Companys website.
Directors are fully informed of all Committee matters by the committee Chairmen reporting on the proceedings of their committee at the subsequent Board meeting.
Copies of committee minutes are also distributed to the Board.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Chairman of each committee attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the committees activities.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all of the Committees.
Sir Duncan Nichol Chairman 4 June 2014 Stay-up-to-date Investors can nd all the latest Company updates and regulatory announcements on the Investor Relations section of the Companys website at www.
com 50 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
