Governance Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year.
We increased the number of meetings to four this year in order to complete our work, given the changes in regulation and reporting for audit committees.
This years report contains some new disclosures, such as our policy on the balance of audit and non-audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors, our policy on auditor tendering, the establishment of an Internal Audit function and our view of the key reporting risks.
My thanks go to the Audit Committee members, the Finance team and the internal and external auditors for their work this year, particularly given the additional work we have undertaken, as well as for their input to the important work done by theCommittee.
Liz Hewitt Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 June 2014 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Governance Audit Committee report continued year, the Audit Committee reviewed managements approach to Audit Committee members carrying out impairment reviews, and the adequacy of the financial Liz Hewitt Chairman controls in place over this area.
In addition, the Committee reviewed Constance Baroudel the conclusions drawn from managements impairment reviews, and satisfied themselves that these were valid.
The Boards judgement Jeff Harris appointed 1 September 2013 is that this year these assets are not in need of impairment, as Sir Duncan Nichol resigned from the Committee 1 September 2013 operational activities are ongoing which support the asset carrying values.
Responsibilities The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated Non-recurring items in the income statement.
Non-recurring items by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of have arisen in the context of acquisitions and restructuring activities.
reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed managements referred to the Board for approval.
The full terms of reference were approach to accounting for non-recurring items, and the adequacy updated during 2014 in line with the revised recommendations of the of financial controls in place over this area.
The Board has discussed September 2012 Code and can be found on the Companys website these items, and is satisfied that these are non-recurring in nature orcan be obtained from the Company Secretary.
and have been correctly identied as such.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: During the year the Committee increased the number of annual meetings from three to four, in order to address an increased workload.
Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group The Committee looked at specic topics as detailed below.
and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: Financial statements and reports Have oversight of risk management, including the review of the about 45% of the Committees time Groups financial, operational and compliance internal controls, Reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts, the half year report Bribery Act 2010 compliance, and whistleblowing and fraud and the Interim Management Statements issued in the year.
As prevention procedures: part of these reviews the Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts: Make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to Reviewed both internal and external reports on the effectiveness of the shareholders for their approval at the general meeting, on the the Groups internal controls: appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the Reviewed regulatory developments in the elds of IFRS and remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: corporate reporting: Considered the Groups acquisition valuation methodology: and Review and monitor the external auditors independence and Considered the Groups impairment review methodology.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration the periodic rotation of audit personnel and relevant Risk management UK professional and regulatory requirements: and about 18% of the Committees time Considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process to Develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, the Groups changing risk auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant prole and future risk reports: guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the Reviewed the Group major risk register: external audit rm.
Monitored the deployment of the Focus on Safety campaign, theSafeguard application, and the risk management learning Key issues and activities management system: The Committee reviews the financial reporting of the Company and the Reviewed the level of management attention and local resource effectiveness of the Groups internal control process.
Combined with the focused on risk management across the Group: and Committees review of the internal and external audit functions, and Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy, which allows the Audit review of specic issues with management as required, it is able to Committee to receive complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters, in confidence.
obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
Internal Audit significant audit issues about 12% of the Committees time The Committee is mindful of the areas of significant risk disclosed in the Initiated a contracted out Internal Audit function, evaluated its Auditors Report on page 75.
The Committee has carried out its own scope of work, and the effectiveness of its delivery: review of these risks, agrees with their classication as key, and is Reviewed the IT security and the internal control environment of the Groups new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system: satisfied that they have been effectively managed during the period.
Reviewed and considered management responses to audit reports Our view of them is set out below: issued during theyear: and Reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
Carrying value of Dutch linen business assets, and Chinese sterilisation business assets.
The Dutch linen business has been External auditors and non-audit work experiencing tough trading conditions during the last two years.
about 15% of the Committees time Thisbusiness is undergoing an improvement programme, which is Reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors including showing some signs of success.
If this programme is not successful setting the policy for the ratio of audit to non-audit work: we may reconsider the asset carrying value.
The Chinese sterilisation Evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external business is a edgling business.
If this business does not develop as auditors: and expected then the asset carrying value may be revisited.
During the Agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 30 March 2014 financial statements.
52 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 and later approved the exceeding of this limit and the 70:30 ratio for a Other areas of interest specic transaction.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision by about 10% of the Committees time KPMG LLP of non-audit services does not impair their independence Considered the Audit Committees terms of reference, which were or objectivity.
The Committee has approved the range of services that then approved by the Board: may be provided by KPMG LLP.
These include transaction due diligence Held private meetings with the external auditor: and accountancy assistance for specic projects.
Subject to approved Reviewed and updated the Companys ethics and whistleblowing authorisation limits, the services require prior authority from either the policies: Group Finance Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Monitored progress on the roll-out of the Groups new ERP system: Evaluated post-investment appraisals of a recent acquisition: and full AuditCommittee.
Contributed to the managements review of the Groups cyberAuditor evaluation security risks and controls, and completed the UK Governments During the year, the Committee reviewed KPMG LLPs fees, cyber-security review.
effectiveness and the fulllment of the agreed audit plan and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The Committee also considered Governance the audit plans robustness, proposed audit materiality, the degree to The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive which KPMG LLP was able to assess key accounting and audit Directors of the Group.
The Committee comprises members with a judgements, the recommendations of the external auditor in connection broad range of business and financial experience to effectively full its with internal controls, and the content of the managementletter.
The Board considers that Liz Hewitt is suitably Details of the current criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external qualied to chair the Committee in accordance with the requirements auditors are set out below: ofthe Code and each of the members is independent in accordance with the denition set out in the Code.
The expertise and the experience Deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit: of each of the members of the Committee are summarised on page 42.
Provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge of technical issues on The Committee met four times during the year and routinely meets atimely basis: and the auditors without the involvement of the Executive Directors.
The Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reects Chairman of the Committee meets with the auditors prior to each Audit local risks and materiality.
The Committee has met with the Internal Auditor on a regular basis throughout the year.
The Group Chief Executive An evaluation of the performance of KPMG LLP was conducted during officer, Group Finance Director, members of the Group Finance the year through the circulation of an internal questionnaire to members function and representatives from the external auditors attend of the Audit Committee and to key customers within the business.
The Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide appropriate advice.
results of the evaluation were satisfactory and showed an improvement The Group Finance Director works closely with the Chairman of the on the prior year.
The Committee will continue to focus on the Audit Committee to ensure open communication between them.
effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the Auditor in its reviews.
The Audit Committee is allowed to obtain, at the Companys expense, Auditor fees outside legal or other professional advice on any matter within its terms Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors, which is of reference.
No external independent advice has been considered reviewed by management, the Committee considered cost comparisons necessary or sought in the year to 30 March 2014 outside of the normal to ensure that it was fair and appropriate.
The audit fees payable to discussions with the external auditors.
The principal Auditor independence non-audit service was for transaction-related advisory fees.
The KPMG LLP previously KPMG Audit PLC was appointed as auditor to Committee considered the appropriateness of using the external auditor the Group in 2007, and is re-appointed annually by shareholders.
An for this work and concluded that it was appropriate to work annual review of the independence of KPMG LLP is undertaken and with the external auditor as the benets of doing so outweighed the includes a review of the policy of hiring of ex-audit staff.
At the year implications of exceeding the policy for the ratio of audit to non-audit end the auditor formally confirmed their independence and that their fees.
Asummary of fees paid to the external auditor is set out in note 4 objectivity has been maintained.
The Committee has concluded to the Accounts on page 89.
In accordance with International Standards that the requirement for independence continues to be met.
on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the The auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the the Group audit every five years.
The incumbent audit partner was external auditor has confirmed their independence as auditor of appointed in 2011.
The Committee has noted the revisions to the Code theCompany, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
introduced by the Financial Reporting Council 'FRC' in September Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to the Board 2012, in particular the recommendation to put the Groups external that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Committee noted the independent auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in July proposed transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering to t 2014 and the Board has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation.
The Audit Committee agreed that a full tender was not required for the 2014 audit.
Consequently, the Committee will consider its external tendering arrangements in Liz Hewitt anticipation of the next audit partner rotation, which is expected to take Chairman of the Audit Committee place in 2016, and will provide an update in the 2015 Annual Report.
4 June 2014 The Committee reviewed its policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure their continued objectivity and independence and set a ratio of 70:30 for audit and non-audit work.
The Committee set a monetary limit for the Group to operate within, Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
