Governance Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 25 Corporate governance Statement of compliance The Company considers that it has complied throughout the Report from the Chairman financial year ended 31 December 2014 with the provisions set out in the Code except in relation to the composition of Dear Shareholder the Board and its Committees in that: I am pleased to report on a year of good progress the Audit Committee comprised two independent in the development of our corporate governance non-executive directors instead of three until March 2014: practices against a background of the significant the Remuneration Committee comprised two independent change that has been announced in the composition non-executive directors instead of three until 23 January of your Board over the last several months.
2014 and the Chairman of the Board was Chairman of that Committee until 1 March 2014: I handed over the chair of the Remuneration Committee the Nomination Committee was not composed of a to Brendan Connolly in March 2014 who oversaw the majority of independent non-executive directors until implementation of our new remuneration policy which August 2014. received a high level of support at the Companys 2014 AGM.
The composition of your Board and its Further details on these matters and how they have been committees was brought into compliance with best addressed are set out in this report.
practice during 2014 and an externally facilitated Board and Committee performance evaluation process has Application of the Code been carried out with the results reviewed by the Board The main principles of the Code were applied as follows: in February 2015.
As a result the Company entered 2015 having eliminated all areas of non-compliance with the Leadership and effectiveness 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code reported on in Operation of the Board our 2013 Corporate Governance Report.
For 2015 I will The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board lead a process for implementing the suggestions for which, during 2014, comprised two executive directors improving your Boards effectiveness arising from the and seven non-executive directors.
The roles of Chairman evaluation process with a focus on boardroom dynamics and Chief Executive Officer are clearly divided between and culture.
Mr N A Johnson who heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman and Mr C G MacLean who has The Nomination Committee, which I also chair, has from 22 January 2015 responsibility for the running of the had an intense period of activity since June 2014 when Companys business as Chief Executive Officer prior to Adrian Whitfield notified his decision to step down as which Mr A M Whitfield was the Chief Executive Officer.
The successful recruitment of non-executive directors all have wide business and boardroom Calum MacLean has been followed by the Nomination experience gained in a broad range of business sectors.
Committee initiating the ongoing recruitment exercise for a Chief Financial Officer to replace David The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which Blackwood whose retirement was announced in includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the December 2014.
As announced on 26 February 2015 strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies Jez Maiden has decided to retire from his position as in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment an independent non-executive director, chair of the and employment, risk management and treasury and, Audit Committee and the Boards Senior Independent subject to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising Director.
The Nomination Committee will also lead the of capital, financial commitments, capital expenditure, search exercise for a successor and is approaching acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, defence both Board vacancies in full recognition of the need and settlement of litigation.
During 2014 the Board held six scheduled meetings to The full report on our corporate governance compliance review current and projected performance and to determine in 2014 is set out in the rest of this report which I hope strategic issues with a half day dedicated to an annual confirms your Boards commitment to achieving best strategy development review.
In addition three meetings practice in all areas.
were held at short notice to deal with specified matters.
The directors receive in advance full information on all matters to be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed review Neil Johnson of performance prepared by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman Board has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees which are discussed on page 26.
26 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination to visit up to two of the Groups operational sites and meet Number of meetings held 9 4 3 1 local management.
Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for Number of individual non-executive directors on request.
During 2014 meetings attended the Board held a meeting in Marl, Germany and in Kluang, D C Blackwood 9 9 N A N A N A Malaysia at the offices of its businesses.
In conjunction with A G Catto 9 9 1 1 N A N A those Board meetings presentations were given by local J Chen 7 9 N A N A N A senior management and the directors were given the opportunity to visit the Groups plants.
B W D Connolly 7 9 2 3 3 3 1 1 J J C Jansz 9 9 4 4 3 3 N A The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer N A Johnson 9 9 N A 2 2 1 1 responsibility for the development and preparation of the Lee Hau Hian 8 9 N A N A N A business plan for the Group and the annual Group budget J K Maiden 9 9 4 4 3 3 1 1 for recommendation to the Board.
As the senior executive A M Whitfield 9 9 N A N A N A director, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all aspects of day-to-day operational control of the Group and Induction and training execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure new has established and chairs an Executive Committee whose directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on other members are the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief appointment.
The Chairman reviews and agrees the training Counsel and Company Secretary, and the operational vice and development needs of the directors and the skills and presidents for the Group to assist him in the performance knowledge of the Board as a whole are updated by briefings of his duties and which meets once a month.
The Chairman provided by the Companys internal resources and materials has available to him the minutes of the Executive Committee and seminars offered by external advisers.
and all directors receive a monthly trading summary and commentary from the Chief Financial Officer.
Performance evaluation Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and Board membership and balance its directors were carried out in the last year by the following The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior internal and external processes: Independent Director are identified on page 24.
The Chairmen and members of the Audit, Nomination and an assessment of the performance of individual nonRemuneration Committees are identified below.
The Board executive directors is carried out by the Chairman through considers Mr J K Maiden, Dr J J C Jansz, Mr J Chen and a rolling programme of one-to-one discussions using Mr B W D Connolly are independent in accordance with the performance evaluation questions as the centrepiece provisions of the Code.
Every non-executive director is assessed in this way once a year: The Board held a total of nine meetings in 2014.
In addition the performance of the executive directors was reviewed the non-executive directors also met once without the against their personal objectives for 2014: Chairman to appraise his performance.
a meeting of the non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman chaired by the Senior Independent The table opposite shows the number of meetings of the Director was held in November 2014 to evaluate the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees performance of the Chairman, taking into account the held during the year and the number of meetings attended by views of the executive directors: and each director.
Where a director is unable to attend a Board the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees or Committee meeting his views on agenda items are Audit, Nomination, Remuneration was evaluated for the canvassed in advance of the meeting and incorporated first time by way of an externally facilitated process using into the discussions.
Independent Board Review, a division of Independent Audit Limited who have no other connection with the Company and their online assessment service Thinking Board.
This facilitation helped ensure a rigorous review was carried out covering the important influences on the Boards effectiveness.
The focus and coverage of the Board and committee questionnaires was discussed in advance with Independent Audit who then administered the questionnaires on a confidential basis, analysed the results independently from the Board and management, and presented the findings and their suggestions in a paper which was discussed with the Chairman and subsequently provided to all directors.
Governance Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 27 Non-executive directors are appointed for one-year terms.
Audit Committee membership since 1 January 2014: All directors submit themselves for annual election at each Jez Maiden Chairman Annual General Meeting.
Just Jansz Board committees Brendan Connolly from 1 March 2014 The Board has formally established Nomination, Audit, Alex Catto until 1 March 2014 and Remuneration Committees, each with their own terms of reference which set out their respective roles and the The role of the Audit Committee authority delegated to them by the Board.
Copies of the In 2014 the Audit Committee was chaired by Mr J K Maiden terms of reference are available upon request from the and comprised two independent non-executive directors Company Secretary and can also be downloaded from together with one non-independent non-executive director the Companys website.
All non-executive directors have until 1 March 2014.
Following the appointment of a standing invitation to attend Committee meetings unless Mr B W D Connolly to the Committee with effect from they are notified otherwise.
1 March 2014, the Committee comprised three independent non-executive directors.
Mr Maiden is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience Audit Committee for the purposes of Provision C. 3.1 of the Code due to his current financial role outside the Group.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report on the work of the Audit The Committee has established a detailed remit regarding Committee during 2014 which was strengthened by the application of financial reporting and internal control the appointment of Brendan Connolly in March 2014 principles, which covers: returning its composition to three independent non-executive directors.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements The Committee fulfilled its primary responsibilities of the Group and any formal announcements during the year and in addition had detailed relating to the Groups financial performance and presentations from the Chief Financial Officer on reviewing significant financial reporting judgements recently completed significant capital expenditure contained in them: projects, the refinancing of the Groups main credit reviewing the Groups internal financial controls facility, the Groups ERP systems and associated and the Groups internal control and risk disaster recovery and security processes and management systems: approved a new cash management policy.
Following monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the on from our audit tender process in 2012 the Groups internal audit function: implications of the reform of the auditor appointment making recommendations to the Board regarding and audit tender processes and associated obligations the selection and appointment of the external and reporting requirements on Audit Committees is auditor and approving their remuneration and terms being considered and will be incorporated into the of engagement: Committees policies, procedures and remit in 2015. reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness The final year of our three year work plan relating to of the audit process: co-sourced internal audit services was successfully developing and implementing policy on the concluded at the end of 2014.
A new three year plan engagement of the external auditor to supply proposed by the Chief Financial Officer and involving non-audit services: a continuation of the co-sourced approach, focused advising the Board, in connection with its obligation on annual reviews of the Groups largest entities with under Section C. 1.1 of the Code, on whether the an extension of scope to include a review of IT Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, is systems was considered and approved.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess As I shall be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming the performance of the Group, along with its AGM this will be my last report and I would like to thank business model and strategy: the Committee members for their support and the ensuring that the external audit services contract is Chief Financial Officer and his team for their assistance put out to tender at least once every ten years: and over the last seven years.
reporting on the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements and how these were addressed.
Jez Maiden Audit Committee Chairman 28 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued The Chief Financial Officer and senior members of his Auditor objectivity and independence department attend meetings of the Committee as part of the With regard to seeking to ensure the independence and review of the Groups interim and annual financial statements objectivity of the auditor, the Audit Committees policy is to prior to their submission to the Board and as part of the ensure that the auditors integrity is not compromised, by internal audit process.
The Committee meets periodically restricting their involvement in the provision of non-audit with the Companys auditor without management present to services where a conflict of interest, real or perceived, may discuss the adequacy of the Groups financial management, exist.
The policy splits the approval of non-audit work into internal controls and information systems and to review the three categories: terms of the auditors engagement, effectiveness, services which are prohibited: independence and objectivity.
services which are pre-approved subject to limits: and services which require specific approval on a Activities during the year case-by-case basis.
The Committee met formally four times during 2014 and carried out the following main activities in addition to the Prohibited services include: items mentioned in the Chairmans overview: maintaining or preparing accounting records and Reviewed the financial statements in the 2013 Annual financial statements: Report and the 2014 interim statement in conjunction with the design and implementation of financial information papers prepared by the Chief Financial Officer regarding systems or financial controls: accounting policies and basis of preparation and a secondments to the Group: number of disclosure considerations: recruitment and remuneration related services for key Advised the Board in connection with its obligation under management positions: Section C. 1.1 of the Code: appraisal, valuation and actuarial services: Reviewed the scope and effectiveness of the external audit: tax services which require interpretation of tax law or Agreed changes to the half year and year end processes reliance on accounting treatments: to improve reporting effectiveness and reviewed the legal services unrelated to the audit.
Financial Reporting Councils FRC periodic routine review of the external auditors work: A full copy of the policy on the provision of non-audit services Received reports from the external auditor on the major by the external auditor is available on the Company website.
findings of its work: Approved the annual external audit plan and the basis In addition the auditor has been requested not to provide on which the auditor assesses materiality: services to executive directors or senior executives except Reviewed the provision of non-audit services by the where approved by the Audit Committee.
Non-executive external auditor: directors are required to disclose any relationship they have Approved a new policy on cash management: with the auditor.
Prior to appointment in July 2012 Reviewed the remit and effectiveness of the Committee:  LLP were providing and continued Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements: to provide during 2014 personal tax advice to the former Reviewed the Groups Risk Register: Chief Executive Officer, Mr A M Whitfield, and expatriate tax Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls and services to the Groups senior managers who are required risk management: to work outside their home country.
The Committee does Reviewed the Groups internal audit plan: and not consider that the provision of these services creates Received detailed reports and presentations from any conflict of interest as they are of a minor nature and are KPMG, the co-sourced internal auditor, and the provided by individuals and teams who are not involved in reviews undertaken by the Group Corporate Controller.
the audit and accordingly have approved their continuation.
Reviewed reports relating to the implementation of recommendations from internal audit visits to enable the Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor in 2014 Committee to assess the improvements in the Groups are set out in note 6 on page 71.
Non-audit fees principally controls and reporting and where further actions are relate to tax compliance and other tax advisory services and required.
Considered and approved the new scope and related to services which were approved within the terms plan for co-sourced internal audit reviews for a three year of the Committees policy.
Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit In addition the Chairman of the Committee had regular During the year the Committee evaluated the performance, dialogue with the external auditor, Chief Financial Officer and independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
other senior members of the head office finance team during As part of this process feedback was obtained from head the course of the year.
office and operating company staff involved with the external audit together with the Committees meetings with the external auditors.
The Committee assessed the robustness Governance Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 29 of the audit, the quality of delivery of the audit against the Defined benefit pension accounting: agreed plan and the competence with which the auditors The Group operates a number of defined benefit handle key accounting and audit adjustments.
Considering schemes which have significant liabilities as outlined in all of these factors the Committee concluded that the note 25 to the Group financial statements.
Although the external auditors were effective.
UK schemes are closed to future accrual, they are sensitive to changes in actuarial assumptions.
During their Re-appointment of the auditor audit, the external auditor evaluated the assumptions and As a result of an external audit tender process in 2012 methodologies used by the Groups actuarial advisors  LLP was appointed in July that and management and assessed whether the assumptions year.
Following the assessment of the effectiveness of the made were appropriate and not materially different from external audit referred to above the Committee is pleased to external benchmarks.
The external auditors reported to recommend the re-appointment of  us that they were satisfied with the assumptions used and LLP at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee will with the way that the schemes had been accounted for.
consider its policy on audit tendering during 2015.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions used by the management, methodology and conclusions.
Financial reporting and significant judgements As part of their monitoring of the integrity of the financial Priorities for 2015 statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable In addition to its routine business the Committee will consider accounting policies have been adopted, whether the appropriateness of a new chair, the new audit tendering management has made appropriate estimates and requirements, the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, judgements and also seeks support from the external Internal Control and Related Financial and Business auditors to assess these outcomes.
Reporting, and will work with a new Chief Financial Officer to ensure a seamless handover from David Blackwood.
The main issues reviewed in the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out below: Nomination Committee Nomination Committee membership since 1 January 2014: Impairment of goodwill and intangibles: The Group holds 313.5 million of goodwill and acquired Neil Johnson Chairman intangible assets as set out in notes 13 and 14.
Annually, Jez Maiden management performs impairment assessments on these Brendan Connolly from 7 August 2014 balances to ensure there in no evidence of impairment.
Adrian Whitfield until 7 August 2014 The review is done using managements specialised The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of knowledge of the underlying businesses and the markets the structure, size and composition of the Board and the in which they operate.
As part of their audit the external making of recommendations with regard to any changes: auditor reviewed the impairment assessment calculation leading the process for Board appointments and nominating for reasonableness of the growth rate assumptions and candidates for non-executive positions: and considering discount rates used and compared the assumptions with succession planning.
The Committee reviewed the assessments by management and the external auditors and considered the related disclosure.
Until 7 August 2014 the Nomination Committee did not comply with the composition requirements of Code Provision Provisions for uncertain taxation positions: B.
2.1 in that a majority of its members were not independent non-executive directors.
Following the appointment of Significant judgement is exercised by management, Brendan Connolly to the Committee and the retirement of with advice from appropriate tax advisors, to arrive at the Adrian Whitfield on 7 August 2014 the Committee has been amounts provided for tax as the final tax outcome of in compliance with this Code Provision.
several transactions is uncertain and may not be known for several years.
As part of their audit, the external auditor The Committee led the process for nominating Calum reviewed the judgements that had been made, using tax MacLean for appointment as Chief Executive Officer.
This specialists as appropriate, and provided the Committee process involved a thorough review of a range of candidates with an assessment of the appropriateness of put forward by an independent recruitment consultancy, management judgements.
The Committee reviewed the Korn Ferry with which the Company has no other provisions and judgements taken by management and connection which conducted an extensive search process.
The diversity including gender of the Board was taken into account by the Committee when making this nomination.
30 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued The Committee also reviewed senior management succession The Chief Executive Officer reports on shareholder relations planning within the Group during the course of the year.
Communications with shareholders relating to corporate governance matters are conducted by The Nomination Committee held one formal meeting during the Chairman with the assistance of the Chairmen of the 2014 and a number of informal meetings and telephone calls Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Written reports on all as well as several interviews in connection with the meetings between non-executive directors and institutional nomination process referred to above.
shareholders and their representative bodies are presented to the Board at the first opportunity following such meetings The Board adopted a policy on diversity in March 2013. as is all correspondence with them.
This policy seeks to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense is taken into account in the process of making The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders appointments on merit against objective selection criteria.
if they have concerns which contact through the normal The Committee has put in hand search processes for the channels of the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer has recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer to succeed David failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Blackwood and of a replacement for Jez Maiden, the chair of the Audit Committee and the Senior Independent Director, The Board seeks to encourage participation of all who announced their retirement from the Board on shareholders, and in particular private investors, at the 18 December 2014 and 26 February 2015 respectively.
Companys Annual General Meeting and endeavours to Russell Reynolds Associates, an independent recruitment ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, consultancy with no connection to the Company, has the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination been appointed to conduct both search processes.
Committees are available to answer questions.
The Committee will lead the nomination processes in full recognition of the need to address the gender diversity The Company makes use of its website of the Board.
com to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim and full year results, Company A copy of the diversity policy is available at announcements, share price and corporate governance www.
Further details on the Companys and other investor information.
approach to diversity is contained within the Strategic report.
Accountability Remuneration Committee An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and the financial statements, their report that the business is remuneration are covered in the Directors remuneration a going concern, a responsibility statement and their report, set out on pages 33 to 45. statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor are set out on pages 47 to 48 and 49 respectively.
Statements Relations with shareholders by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities are set out Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular on pages 51 to 55 and 97 to 98 respectively.
basis by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and meetings take place following the announcement A report on the approach to internal control is set out of interim and full year results and at other times according below.
The directors endeavour to make the Annual Report to circumstances.
and financial statements as informative and understandable as possible.
The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an Risk management and internal control understanding of the views of the Groups major shareholders.
The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the These principles require the Chairman to be present with the Groups system of internal control and sets appropriate Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer at policies to ensure that the Code requirements on internal sufficient shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully control are met.
The system of internal control deployed understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
within the Group is designed to reduce the risks of failure Alternatively the Chairman is also available for meetings with to meet business objectives, but these risks cannot be major shareholders at their request.
The internal control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance about meeting such business objectives or against material mis-statement or loss.
Governance Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 31 The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and The processes which are used by the Board either directly consolidation processes are designed under the supervision or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review of the Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the systems including in relation to the financial reporting process preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published and the process for preparing consolidated accounts include financial statements for external reporting purposes in the following: accordance with IFRS.
a review of the external audit work plan: consideration of reports from management and external An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing parties, including the internal and external auditor, on the significant business risks faced by the Group has been in system of internal financial control and any material place since 2000.
This has since been built upon so as to control weaknesses: embed further the process into the businesses and to a quarterly review of safety, health and environmental enhance the usefulness of the relevant processes and performance: information, and has been operated throughout 2014 and discussion with management of the actions taken on any up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and possible problem areas for the business identified by accounts, and accords with the Financial Reporting Council Board members or in the audit report: Guidance on internal control.
consideration of a consolidated risk management report setting out the main conclusions from the internal control The system is applied across the Group on a functional and process: and regional basis and a bottom up risk profile is created by a biannual report from the internal audit function.
evaluating the information at an operational and Group level.
Individual senior managers within Synthomers businesses In addition, the Board: identify and assess key risks associated within their area of responsibility based on formal management information receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee and interaction with colleagues, customers, suppliers and meetings: other parties.
considers the role of the Group insurance programme: receives regular written and oral reports from The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and management on all aspects of production, operations, agreed by the Executive Committee.
A business risk report financial and risk management matters: and is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy and in compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code takes account of key internal and external factors.
Risks are the Board regularly reviews and approves the prioritised using a common risk matrix, which forms the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that a review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed was carried out in 2014. every six months, out of which a revised report is submitted which identifies changes in the risk environment.
Environmental matters The maintenance of high standards of environmental The process was last reviewed by the Synthomer Board of together with health and safety protection is central to the Directors in February 2015.
The nature of the risks identified Companys business.
A separate statement on safety, health as a result of this process during the year primarily relate to and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the Annual Report for a number of years.
The Corporate Social matters of an operational and financial nature and the most significant of those which faced the Group in 2014 are Responsibility report on pages 20 to 23 includes a report on the initiatives the Company has adopted regarding reviewed in the Strategic report.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, by the nature of the Groups business, always of the utmost concern and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 20 to 23 reviews the Groups performance in this connection in 2014.
32 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Social, community and human rights matters The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part of its review of internal control which, by virtue of its approach to risk identification, covers areas which encompass social and ethical matters.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities in which the Groups businesses operate and encourages local engagement by management which includes supporting environmental, health and education initiatives.
The Board is also aware of the reputational and legal risks associated with social and ethical issues and has a Groupwide code of business conduct on corruption and anticompetitive activities, which is available on the Companys website and upon request from the Company Secretary.
The purpose of this code is to ensure that the Groups employees have a clear understanding of the principles that are important in these areas when conducting the Groups business.
The application of the code is explained to senior management at regular intervals and they are charged with its communication throughout their businesses supported by internal and external training.
A compliance procedure involving annual certification by senior management and a procedure for maintaining a register of, and where appropriate gaining prior approval for, gifts, entertainment and corporate hospitality operates throughout the Group.
A report is made to the Audit Committee annually on the code and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
The Groups operating activities are highly regulated in all territories and largely carried out in countries that have established legislation on human rights issues.
As such information on human rights issues is not considered to be necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups business.
The Group has nonetheless adopted a policy on equal opportunities, diversity and human rights which is available at www.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
