Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Introduction The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The following changes to the Board have been announced during governance and in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing theyear: Amy Stirling stepped down as Chief Financial Officer on Authority, the Board confirms that the Company has throughout the year 31May 2013 and was replaced by Stephen Makin with effect from the and as at the date of this Annual Report, complied with the provisions same date.
Joanna Shields was appointed as a Non-Executive Director set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
David Goldie stepped down on 27 September 2013.
TheCompany did not use an external search consultant in the This section of the Annual Report, together with the Strategic Report, appointment of Non-Executive Directors during the period.
provides details of howthe Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
In particular, this section The Chairman and Executive Directors have service contracts that summarises the Boards compliance with the five key principles can be terminated by either the Company or the Director on twelve oftheCode, namely: leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, months notice.
accountability and relations with shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are expected to serve for an initial period Board balance and independence of three years, albeit that either party may terminate the appointment The Board has ten members, seven of whom, excluding the Chairman, on three months notice with no compensation forloss ofoffice.
These are considered independent Non-Executive Directors.
These are initial three year periods commenced on 20 January 2010, with the JohnGildersleeve Deputy Chairman, Ian West Senior Independent following exceptions: IanWest 8February 2011 : SirHowardStringer Director, John Allwood, Brent Hoberman, Sir Howard Stringer, 26 July 2012 : JamesPowell 26July 2012 : andJoanna Shields JamesPowell and Joanna Shields.
Therefore, at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman AllDirectors in any event stand for re-election every year.
areindependent and, notwithstanding the changes to the Board composition during the period, this has been the situation for all of FY14.
Leadership How the Board operates The Board has reserved certain matters, and delegated others, to the Groups Executive Committee, which comprises Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Makin Chief Financial Officer and other senior employees drawn from across the Group.
Reserved matters include approving the Groups strategy, annual budgets and other longer term planning.
Number of meetings attended Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 6 3 7 1 Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Sir Charles Dunstone, Chairman 6 Dido Harding 6 1 Amy Stirling 1 Stephen Makin 6 2 David Goldie 2 John Gildersleeve 6 3 7 1 3 Ian West 6 2 7 1 John Allwood 6 3 1 4 Brent Hoberman 6 6 5 Sir Howard Stringer 5 3 James Powell 6 3 6 Joanna Shields 6 1 Amy Stirling stepped down as a Director and was replaced by Stephen Makin on 31 May 2013.
2 David Goldie was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior business commitment.
David Goldie stepped down as a Director on 27 September 2013.
3 Ian West was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting due to a prior business commitment.
4 Brent Hoberman was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a prior business commitment.
5 Sir Howard Stringer was unable to attend one Board Meeting and four Remuneration Committee meetings due to personal reasons.
6 Joanna Shields was appointed on 16 May 2013.
21 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Leadership continued How the Board operates continued As well as the formal meetings during the year, the Board met at other effectiveness of individual Directors.
Overall, NJMDs review found times as appropriate for approving certain announcements to shareholders.
the Board was effectively run and administered.
NJMD found neither areas of major concern nor any matters which are of particular It is important to the Board that Non-Executive Directors have concern in relation to individual Directors.
theability to influence and challenge appropriately.
To this end all Non-Executive Directors are given a thorough induction to the Group The Company Secretary ensures that the Board is made aware of and take priority in Board discussions.
All Directors receive papers in newlaws, regulations and other information appropriate to the Group advance of meetings.
They also receive regular reports and members to ensure that all Directors continually update their skills, knowledge of the Groups executive team are invited to present at Board meetings and familiarity of the Group in order to fulfil their roles.
Additionally so that the Non-Executive Directors keep abreast of developments each Director has access to the advice and services of the Company inthe Group.
Secretary and also has the ability to take independent external advice if required.
The Chairman meets regularly with just the Non-Executive Directors prior to every other Board meeting.
This ensures that any concerns Diversity can be raised and discussed outside of formal Board meetings.
The Board understands the importance of having a diverse membership TheSenior Independent Director also attends these sessions and recognises that diversity encompasses not only gender but also whereitis possible, if required, to discuss any matters with the background and experience.
The Board does not have a formal diversity otherindependent Non-Executive Directors.
policy and is generally opposed to the idea of stated quotas for females.
Our equality policy applies equally to all appointments in the Company, The Senior Independent Director also takes responsibility for and the Board believes that appointments should be made solely on performance evaluation of the Board: succession planning for merit, the key criterion being whether or not the appointee can add theChairman: and chairing Non-Executive Director only meetings.
toor complement the existing range of skills and experience on the Inaddition, he is an alternative point of contact for shareholders Board.
Notably, the most recent Board appointment was female.
This intheevent that normal executive channels are not appropriate.
appointment was made on merit, and not on gender, the appointee Details ofthe Senior Independent Directors role are set out on being by far the strongest candidate for the position with her skill set theGroups website www.
and overall experience fitting the objective role description approved It is important to the Group that all Directors understand external by the Board at the outset of the recruitment process.
To this end regular reports are provided to the Board Committees Board by the Groups Investor Relations Director, covering broker The Board has established four Committees: Audit, Remuneration, reports and the output of meetings with significant shareholders.
Nomination and Regulatory Compliance: the first three are as required Asstated below, the Board has also delegated certain matters by the Code, and the fourth is to ensure the compliance ofthe Group toanumber of Board Committees.
within the consumer regulatory environment in which itoperates.
Audit Committee Effectiveness During the year, the Committee comprised the following independent Performance evaluation and continued development Non-Executive Directors: John Allwood Chairman, John Gildersleeve, Each Board member has been subject to an internal performance Ian West and James Powell.
review during the year, where the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director was reviewed.
This was undertaken The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board, following each byeach member of the Board completing detailed questionnaires.
Committee meeting, on any significant issues that may have arisen.
The results of these were analysed by the Chairman, Senior Inaddition, the Chairman of the Committee is happy to make himself Independent Director and the Board as a whole against the broad available to investors on request.
During the year, all requirements of criteria of overall Board effectiveness and individual contributions.
theCode in respect of the Committee were met.
As part of the performance review the ability of each Director, The Groups Chief Financial Officer as well as representatives of the inparticular the Non-Executive Directors, to demonstrate the Companys external auditor and other members of senior management required time commitment to the role was assessed.
from Finance, Tax and Treasury, Legal and Business Assurance also attend these meetings by invitation of the Committee.
The external As a result of this performance evaluation the Chairman confirms that and internal auditors have direct access to the Committee during each of the Directors seeking re-election at the AGM continues to be formal meetings and time is set aside for them to have private discussion effective and has demonstrated the appropriate commitment to with the Committee, in the absence of management attendees.
John Allwood remains the member of the Committee with relevant The Senior Independent Director also met with the other Non-Executive and recent financial experience as recognised by the Consultative Directors to assess the Chairmans effectiveness, taking into account Committee of Accountancy bodies, although all members are the views of Executive Directors.
expected to be financially literate and have an understanding of: In compliance with the requirements of the Code, NJMD Corporate the principles of, contents of and developments in financial reporting, Services Limited NJMD was instructed by the Company to conduct accounting standards and statements of recommended practice: an externally facilitated performance evaluation of the Board during the year.
NJMD has no connection with the Company other than a contract key aspects of the Companys operations: to conduct the evaluation and a contract with one of its Directors to matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts and provide domestic internet services.
The key objectives of the evaluation, key financial information: which were agreed with the Chairman and the Company Secretary inadvance, were to enhance Board effectiveness and also the 22 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 review the Companys internal financial controls and its internal control Effectiveness continued and risk management systems and to make recommendations to Board Committees continued the Board: Audit Committee continued the principles of, and developments in, key applicable company review the Companys arrangements by which employees may lawand other legislation relevant to the Company: raise concerns in confidence: the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: the regulatory framework of the Companys business: and make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, environmental and social responsibility best reporting practices.
re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve During the year, the formal calendar of items considered at each its remuneration and terms of engagement: AuditCommittee meeting within each annual cycle embraced review the Companys policy on the engagement of the external theCode requirements to: auditor to supply non-audit services: monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and judgements contained in them: disclose how the Committee has assessed the effectiveness of disclose the significant issues that the Committee considered theexternal audit process and provide information on the length inrelation to the financial statements and how these issues oftenure of the current audit firm.
wereaddressed: The Committees remit requires it to report to the Board, identifying confirm that the consolidated financial statements, taken as a any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, to ensure that the is needed and to make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
narrative sections of the Report are consistent with the financial statements and accurately reflect the Groups performance: Significant judgements The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in the current year were as follows: Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee The appropriateness of The Committee considered papers prepared by management and, taking into account the external auditors preparing the Group financial review of these papers and its assumptions, concluded that managements recommendation to prepare statements for the half year accounts on a going concern basis was appropriate.
and full year on a going concern basis The treatment of exceptional The Committee considered managements presentation of separately disclosed items.
The Committee also items and their presentation considered the views of our external auditor both on managements policy and its application in FY14.
At each within the Groups financial meeting the Committee reviews a paper prepared by management on actual and forecast levels of exceptional statements items including the nature of all the items.
The disclosure for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements is reviewed and agreed by the Audit Committee.
Carrying value of goodwill The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment testing relate to the assumptions applied in calculating the and other intangibles value in use of the operating companies being tested for impairment.
The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business, which are driven by the Groups calculation of its weighted average cost of capital WACC and its assessment of long term growth rates.
The business plan used in the calculation is the five year plan, which is approved by the Groups Executive Committee and the Board.
The Committee reviews and challenges managements paper on the outcome of the impairment review.
Revenue recognition The key area of judgement in respect of recognising revenue is identifying revenue arrangements including multiple deliverables.
When the Group sells a number of products within a bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
The Committee reviews managements papers on proposed accounting treatment for new products.
In addition, the Committee also considers the detailed reporting of the external auditor before agreeing on any potential changes to the Groups accounting policies.
Taxation The key judgement in relation to taxation relates to the assumptions made in recognising deferred tax assets.
The taxation forecasting model prepared by management is based on the five year plan, which is approved bythe Groups Executive Committee and the Board.
The Committee reviews and challenges managements paper, which outlines the key principles and judgements used in the calculation.
23 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external Effectiveness continued auditor during the period is set out below: Board Committees continued 2014 2013 Audit Committee continued m m Statement of Directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts Fees payable to the Companys As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that the Annual Report auditor for the audit of the and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and understandable Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
When Audit of the Group and its subsidiaries arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.4 processes including: Audit services provided to all Group companies 0.5 0.5 the Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by appropriate senior employees across all areas of the business with overall supervision Taxation and other services 0.2 0.1 being provided by the Director of Group Finance, Tax and Treasury Total Group auditors remuneration 0.7 0.6 to ensure the Report is consistent across all sections: In the current year, the Group incurred non-audit fees of 239,000. a comprehensive verification process is undertaken to ensure Fees relating to tax services of 140,000 principally comprised technical thefactual accuracy of the entire Annual Report: advice associated with relevant UK and international fiscal law and complete reviews of drafts of the Report are undertaken by the regulations.
Other fees of 99,000 mainly represented HR consultancy Executive Directors and other members of the Groups Executive advice.
Having undertaken a review of the non-audit related work, the Committee: and Committee has satisfied itself that the services undertaken during the year did not prejudice the external auditors independence.
the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to final consideration by the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are External audit available on request from the Company Secretary and are published The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation on the Groups website www.
and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit, which assigns responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity In light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Committee and compliance by the external auditor to the Committee.
recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be retained as the auditor of the Company.
This recommendation was endorsed by the Board.
Deloitte was appointed as auditor in 2010 when the Group demerged from Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
In the year to 31 March 2014, Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Sharon Thorne was newly appointed as the Senior Statutory Auditor.
auditor and a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed Deloitte has confirmed its independence in a letter addressed to atthe forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration In the year to 31 March 2014, the Audit Committee adopted a formal framework to review the effectiveness of the external audit process Remuneration Committee and audit quality.
An auditor assessment tool is completed annually During the year, the Committee comprised the following independent by each member of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, Brent Hoberman, and other members of senior management who are invited to attend Ian West and Sir Howard Stringer.
The assessment tool covers all aspects Other Directors including the Chief Executive Officer, the Company of the audit process from the audit partners interaction with the Secretary, the Group Human Resources Director and advisors attend Audit Committee through to the planning and delivery of the audit.
A detailed description of the Committees The feedback from this process has been considered by the Audit remit and work during the period is contained in the Directors Committee and is provided to both the auditor and to senior management.
Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 39.
The results in the current year were reviewed at the March Audit Committee meeting and show that overall the Committee believes The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each our external auditor is performing as expected.
However, if this Committee meeting.
situation should change in the future, management will agree an The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request action plan with the external audit partner, which the Audit Committee from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups will keep under review.
The policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor specifies the types of work from which the external auditor isexcluded: for which the external auditor can be engaged without referral to the Committee: and for which a case-by-case decision is required.
In order to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees is monitored by the Committee.
Any work proposed in excess of 50% of the audit fee is referred to the Committee.
Amounts below this are discussed with the Chairman of the Committee.
24 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 to the extent considered appropriate by the Board taking account of Accountability costs and benefits.
Changes in the status of the key risks and updates Nomination Committee on mitigation are reported regularly at each Board meeting.
During the year, the Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, John Allwood The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of and Ian West.
internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing, The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board operating and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors, onaprocess of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board include the risk management processes set out above.
The Company and making its recommendations to the Board.
It assists in evaluating has channels in place to enable employees to raise concerns about the commitments of individual Directors and the balance of skills, possible irregularities in financial reporting and other issues and for knowledge and experience on the Board.
those matters to be investigaged.
The Committee has overseen the appointment of Joanna Shields as The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period aNon-Executive Director and also the appointment of Stephen Makin and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The effectiveness as Chief Financial Officer during the period.
of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each accordance with the revised guidance in the Turnbull Report.
systems are also refined as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
The systems of internal control are The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute website www.
assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law Regulatory Compliance Committee and regulations.
The members of this Committee are John Gildersleeve Chairman, The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer and TimMorris Company thesystems of risk management and internal control in operation Secretary.
during the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Other senior executives of the Group attend by invitation Report.
This was approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Audit Committee also adopts an internal audit charter each yearin accordance with International Internal Auditing Standards.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide the Board with visibility ofhow the Group remains compliant with those consumer regulations This is supported by the Business Assurance and Internal Audit function affecting its businesses from time to time.
Its members therefore through an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating andmanaging include those senior executives who are operationally responsible the risks faced by the Group.
No significant weaknesses were identified forimplementing permanent changes necessary to ensure the in the year.
Relations with shareholders Such members are accountable to the Committee and the Board The Board believes it is important to explain business developments forthe successful delivery of such changes.
and financial results to the Companys shareholders and to understand any shareholder concerns.
The principal communication media used This Committee meets at least four times a year and reports to the to impart information to shareholders are news releases including Board accordingly.
The Group also operates a weekly Compliance results announcements and Company publications.
In all such Committee made up of those senior executives including the Chief communications, care is taken to ensure that no price sensitive Executive Officer responsible for all key areas of compliance across information is released.
the Group and is chaired by the Company Secretary.
Targets set at these meetings are monitored against a weekly scorecard.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have lead responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported by an Investor Risk management and internal control Relations Director who, amongst other matters, organises presentations The Company has established a risk management programme that for analysts and institutional investors.
There is a full programme of assists management throughout the Company to identify, assess regular meetings and dialogue with major institutional shareholders, andmitigate business, financial, operational and compliance risks.
fundmanagers, analysts, retail brokers and credit investors, upon which The Board views management of risk as integral to good business the Chairman ensures the Board receives regular updates at Board practice.
The programme is designed to support managements meetings.
The Board also receives periodic reports on investors views decision making and to improve the reliability of business performance.
of the performance of the Company.
All the Non-Executive Directors To ensure that all parts of the Group have a good understanding of risk, and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are members of this team have conducted risk workshops and reviews available to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are required.
within each of the main functions in the past year, culminating in The Company plans also to communicate with shareholders through anassessment of key business risks by the Executive Directors and the AGM, at which the Chairman will give anaccount of the progress keymanagement.
These risk assessments have been wide-ranging, ofthe business over the last year, and a review of current issues, and covering risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, provides the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
counterparties and organisational change associated with major The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity projects.
The risk management process operates throughout the to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders.
Information relating to Group, being applied equally to the main business units and corporate votes cast will, following the AGM, be available on the Companys website functions.
A risk report and update is provided at each Board meeting.
The output of each assessment is a list of key strategic, financial, Further financial and business information is available on the Groups operational and compliance risks.
Associated action plans and controls website www.
to mitigate identified risks are put in place where this is possible and 25
