Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE UK Corporate Governance Code Board Committees The UK Corporate Governance Code, The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Committees, details of which can be dated September 2012 the Code and found on pages 47 to 51 and on page 64. issued by the Financial Reporting Council, Governance structure is applicable to companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
As such, we are required to state how Board we have applied the principles contained in the Code and to disclose whether we have complied with the provisions of the Corporate Audit Nominations Remuneration Chief Code during the year.
Throughout the year Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Executive from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 the Committee Company has complied fully with the Code.
This Governance section of the Research Executive Annual Report, including the Directors Advisory Committee Remuneration Report plus the disclosures Group contained in the Risks section on pages 29 to 31, provide details of how the The Research Advisory Group RAG Meetings are structured to facilitate open Company applies the principles and is chaired by Dr Ajai Puri and comprises debate, and all directors participate complies with the provisions of the Code.
external subject matter experts and senior in discussing safety, strategy, trading, Tate & Lyle managers.
The RAGs remit financial performance and risk The Directors responsibilities for the covers reviewing the innovation pipeline management.
Members of executive preparation of financial statements are and providing insight into how leading-edge management attend Board meetings explained in the Directors Statement science and technology can be applied and regularly make presentations.
Their to enhance the Groups speciality food statement on going concern is on page 28.
The Chairman continued to hold a short ingredients portfolio.
The RAG meets discussion with the non-executive directors Further information on the Code can be regularly, principally at the global collectively both immediately before and found on the Financial Reporting Councils Commercial and Food Innovation Centre after each scheduled Board meeting.
in Chicago, USA and Dr Puri provides Directors attendance at Board meetings regular updates to the Board on the The Board work of the RAG.
The role of the Board Number of Directors as at Number of meetings The Board is collectively responsible for Operation of the Board 31 March 2014 meetings attended promoting the success of the Company Board meetings Sir Peter Gershon 9 9 and for providing entrepreneurial leadership The Board and its Committees meet Javed Ahmed 9 9 within a framework of prudent and effective regularly according to a schedule linked controls that enable risk to be assessed Tim Lodge 9 9 to key events in the Companys corporate and managed.
It sets the Companys Liz Airey 9 9 calendar.
Ad hoc meetings are also objectives, ensures that the Company William Camp 9 9 arranged to consider matters requiring has the necessary financial resources Douglas Hurt 9 9 review and decision outside the scheduled and people to meet them, and reviews Virginia Kamsky 9 9 meetings.
Six scheduled Board meetings managements performance.
The Board were held during the year ended 31 March Anne Minto 9 9 also sets the Companys Values and 2014, including one held at the global Dr Ajai Puri 9 8 ensures that its obligations to shareholders Commercial and Food Innovation Centre Robert Walker 9 9 and others are met.
in Chicago, USA and one at the Groups ofces in Shanghai, China.
Three additional There is a schedule of matters reserved During the year, Dr Ajai Puri was unable Board meetings were also held to consider to the Board for decision, which includes to attend a meeting that was held outside proposals relating to the Groups business approval of: the usual schedule due to unavoidable transformation programme and to review business commitments and he provided t Group strategy operational performance.
The Board also input on the agenda items to the Chairman t Annual budget and operating plans met offsite for one day to focus on strategy.
t Major capital expenditure, acquisitions The rolling programme of items for or divestments discussion by the Board is reviewed at t Interim dividends each Board meeting and updated to reect t Full-year and half-year results topical matters.
All substantive agenda and interim management statements items have comprehensive brieng papers t Board and Company Secretary which are distributed via the electronic appointments Board portal, generally five working days t Senior management structure before the meeting.
In the few instances and responsibilities where a director is unable to attend a t Treasury policies meeting, his or her comments on the t Directors conicts of interest brieng papers are given in advance t Systems of internal control to the Chairman.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 41 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | CONTINUED Summary of the Boards work during The Chief Executive Independence the year Key responsibilities include: With the exception of the Chairman, During the year, the Board continued who is presumed under the Code not to be t Proposing strategy to the Board to oversee the ongoing transformation independent, the Board considers all the and delivering it of the Groups culture and business non-executive directors to be independent.
t Running the business and considered all matters within its remit, The Senior Independent Director, Robert t Communicating the Boards focusing in particular on the following: Walker, is available to shareholders if they expectations with regard to culture, have any issues or concerns which they t Safety values and behaviours have not resolved through the usual t The performance of the Speciality Food t Ensuring the Board is aware channels, and leads the annual review Ingredients SFI and Bulk Ingredients BI of the executive directors views of the Chairmans performance.
divisions and the Innovation and on business issues.
Commercial Development group ICD, The non-executive directors have a wide The Senior Independent Director including the impact of the global range of skills and knowledge and combine Key responsibilities include: Commercial and Food Innovation Centre broad business and commercial experience t The Groups approach to customer t Acting as a sounding board with independent and objective judgement.
engagement and collaboration for the Chairman The terms and conditions of appointment t The ongoing implementation of the t Conducting an annual review of the non-executive directors can be project to create one global IS IT platform of the Chairmans performance inspected at the Companys registered t Talent management and succession t Being available to shareholders ofce and will be available for inspection planning activities.
if they have any concerns that they at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
have been unable to resolve through In the 2015 financial year, the Board As part of the annual Board effectiveness the normal channels.
will focus in particular on the areas listed review, each director goes through a formal on page 40.
Board effectiveness performance review process.
All directors Board diversity completed this process during the year Board allocation of time As set out in the Boards statement on and, in line with the Code, Robert Walker The chart below shows the approximate diversity, published on the Groups website, and Liz Airey, who have served for over six time the Board has spent discussing the Directors believe that Board years, have both been subject to a agenda items during the year, separated composition is a key element of Board particularly rigorous review.
effectiveness and each member, and Time commitment potential member, of the Board must be All directors have disclosed any significant Board allocation of time able to demonstrate the skills, experience external commitments to the Board and and knowledge required to contribute to 1 34% Strategy 3 18% Risk confirmed that they continue to have 2 24% Execution 4 13% Business results the effectiveness of the Board.
Subject to sufficient time to discharge their duties of strategy 5 11% Governance that overriding principle, the Directors to Tate & Lyle.
The other significant believe that the Boards perspective and commitments of the Directors are set out approach can be greatly enhanced through 1 on pages 38 and 39.
The time commitment 5 gender, age and cultural diversity.
It is the of all non-executive directors and the Boards policy to consider overall Board 4 Chairman is reviewed annually and the balance and diversity when appointing Board is comfortable that all Directors new directors.
continue to devote the necessary time 2 3 Board composition to the Company.
At the date of this Annual Report, the During the year, the Board met without the Board comprised ten directors with deep Chairman present to consider his request knowledge and experience in diverse to chair the Aircraft Carrier Alliance.
The Division of responsibilities business sectors within global markets: Chairman assured the Board that he would The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive the Chairman, who has no executive continue to be able to devote sufficient time and Senior Independent Director are responsibilities: two executive directors: to his duties at Tate & Lyle and the Board separated and their responsibilities are set and seven non-executive directors.
unanimously agreed to his request.
out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The names and biographies of the directors are on pages 38 and 39.
Advice and support The Chairman The appointment and removal of the Key responsibilities include: Company Secretary is a matter for the Tenure of non-executive directors t The effective operation, leadership and Board as a whole.
All directors have access governance of the Board 1 0 to 3 years 3 directors to the advice and services of the Company 2 4 to 6 years 2 directors t Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board, Secretary, Lucie Gilbert, who is responsible 3 7 to 9 years 2 directors and each director individually for ensuring that Board processes are t Setting the style and tone of Board followed and that applicable rules and discussions 1 regulations are complied with.
t Ensuring the directors receive accurate, There is also a formal procedure whereby timely and clear information.
directors can obtain independent 3 professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
2 42 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Information and professional Performance evaluation development A review of the Boards effectiveness is undertaken each year.
The process is led either The Chairman, assisted by the Company internally or by an external facilitator.
Following an external review in 2011, the Chairman Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that led the process in 2012 and 2013. the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters.
2013 Board effectiveness review Directors receive ongoing training and The progress made since the 2013 evaluation is summarised below.
updates on relevant issues as appropriate, Recommendations Update on actions taking into account their individual qualications and experience.
Bespoke Increase the amount of time spent on Two Global Enterprise Account Directors training sessions were held during the understanding the market and how have presented to the Board and additional year, including sessions on the speciality customer relationships are managed.
time is allocated to reviewing customer food ingredients market in Asia Pacic.
The Company Secretary helps directors undertake any other professional Enhance knowledge of the The Board undertook a review of the development they consider necessary innovation pipeline.
innovation pipeline and key ICD processes to assist them in carrying out their duties.
during its visit to the global Commercial Visits to external events, including the and Food Innovation Centre.
Food Ingredients Europe Exhibition, Increase the Directors focus on talent The Board delegated this action to the were also arranged to help non-executive management and succession planning.
Nominations Committee which focused on directors in particular to gain a deeper this at each of its subsequent meetings insight into the Groups operating during the year.
During the year, in addition to the Boards visits to Chicago, Shanghai Identify and implement improvements Board reporting has been enhanced.
and Singapore, the Chairman and the to Board reporting in respect of the non-executive directors visited 13 of the performance of SFI.
Groups sites in Europe and the USA as part of their independent site visit programme.
These visits provide directors with the opportunity to interact with local 2014 Board effectiveness review The results were grouped into three management and gain in-depth knowledge The Board agreed that the 2014 review broad areas: about the challenges being faced by the should be externally facilitated.
Given the Groups operations across the world.
t Mechanics: for instance processes, importance of inclusive leadership and Over the past three years, the Chairman structure, membership and operation the changes to the Board in the previous and non-executive directors have visited of the Board and its Committees financial year, the Directors felt that it would 21 of the Groups principal locations as t Dynamics: including leadership, the be particularly beneficial for the review part of this programme.
Tate & Lyle Values in practice in the to reect on diversity and inclusion.
boardroom, quality of discussions, After careful consideration of providers, debate and decision-making Schneider Ross, an independent external t Specics: including strategy, customer consultancy rm specialising in diversity engagement, talent management and and inclusion, was retained to undertake succession planning, and risk appetite.
The Board deliberated each of Schneider Schneider Ross held condential one-toRosss recommendations and an action one interviews with directors and members plan was agreed: examples are provided of the leadership team who regularly attend in the table on page 44.
Board and or Committee meetings plus three external advisers.
The discussions In addition, each Committee considered Asia Pacific is a key growth region for the Group and focused on the behavioural aspects of the output from Schneider Rosss review in January 2014 the Board visited the SFI facilities in Board effectiveness including how the of the Committees.
Each of the reviews Shanghai and Singapore.
The visit enabled directors Board works together, the quality of inputs, indicated that the Committees were to increase their understanding of the challenges and opportunities of the local markets and to meet staff discussions and decision-making, and operating effectively and made a number based at these locations.
specic themes such as succession of recommendations for further planning.
Following the interviews and, consideration.
Examples of the agreed Directors induction programme working in conjunction with the Company actions are set out in each of the separate On appointment to the Board, directors Secretary, questionnaires were produced reports of the Audit Committee and the receive background reading about the to solicit further feedback on the overall Corporate Responsibility CR Committee.
Group and details of Board procedures effectiveness, performance and processes With regard to the Remuneration and other matters related to governance.
of the Board and each of its Committees.
Committee, following consideration of The Company Secretary then works with Thirty individuals, including regular the report from Schneider Ross, that each of the new directors to deliver a attendees and four external advisors, Committee agreed a number of actions tailored induction programme.
No new were invited to complete these including increased communication with directors joined the Board during the questionnaires anonymously.
all Remuneration Committee members financial year.
A detailed summary of prior to Committee meetings and The key results and recommendations the induction programme undertaken renements to the Remuneration were presented to the Board by by directors in the previous financial year Committees programme of activity Schneider Ross.
is included in the Annual Report 2013. for the year ending 31 March 2015.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 43 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | CONTINUED Directors indemnities and 2014 Board effectiveness review insurance cover As at the date of this Annual Report, Area Agreed actions indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify Mechanics t Ways to further improve the support for incoming presenters to be considered and implemented.
the directors, to the extent permitted by t A working party to be established to identify ways to enhance site visits.
the Companies Act 2006, against claims from third parties in respect of certain Dynamics t Chief Executive to meet with executives who attend Board meetings liabilities arising out of, or in connection immediately afterwards to discuss how the Board operated as a whole with, the execution of their powers, and to reect on any learnings.
duties and responsibilities as directors t Thinking styles of candidates for the Board and Executive Committee to of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
be taken into consideration once skill set and experience has been The directors are also indemnified against confirmed.
t Undertake an  session for the Board focusing on the cost of defending a criminal boardroom dynamics, relationships and how to make even better use of prosecution or a claim by the Company, Board diversity.
its subsidiaries or a regulator provided that where the defence is unsuccessful Specics t Building on the progress made in 2013, further proposals to be the director must repay those defence developed to drive customer centricity in the boardroom.
These indemnities are qualifying t Board Committees to oversee the executive focus on building an indemnity provisions for the purposes inclusive culture.
of Sections 232 to 234 of the Companies t Revisit the timing and location of the scheduled Board meetings, in particular the timing of the annual Board strategy day.
Act 2006 and copies are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during business hours on Progress will be monitored by the The Code provides that all directors should any weekday except UK public holidays.
Chairman and Company Secretary seek re-election on an annual basis and all The Company also maintains directors throughout the 2015 financial year directors will seek re-election at the and ofcers liability insurance cover, and regular updates will be provided forthcoming AGM.
The directors standing the level of which is reviewed annually.
for re-election, with the exception of Javed Ahmed and Tim Lodge, do not have Accountability With regard to the performance of service contracts.
Internal control individual directors, the review concluded The Board has overall responsibility that all directors continued to make an At no time during the year has any director for the Groups system of internal control effective contribution to the Boards work, had any material interest in a contract with and risk management and for reviewing were well prepared and informed about the Group, being a contract of signicance its effectiveness.
The objective of internal issues they needed to consider, and that in relation to the Groups business.
control within Tate & Lyle is to support their commitment remained strong.
The A statement of directors interests in efficient implementation of the Groups Chairman also provided individual Company shares is set out on page 71. strategy and effective operations whilst feedback to each director and the Senior Directors conicts of interest enabling it to respond appropriately to Independent Director provided feedback As permitted under the Companies Act significant business, operational, financial, to the Chairman.
2006, the Companys Articles of compliance and other risks to achieving The performance of the Chief Executive and Association allow directors to authorise the Companys objectives.
The system Chief Financial officer was also considered conicts of interest and the Board has a of internal controls is designed to safeguard by the Nominations Committee, in line with policy and procedures for managing and, the assets of the Group and to ensure its terms of reference.
During the year, the where appropriate, authorising, actual or the reliability of financial information for non-executive directors met without the potential conicts of interest.
Under those both internal use and external publication Chairman, under the chairmanship of the procedures, directors are required to and to comply with guidance published Senior Independent Director, to discuss the declare all directorships or other by the Financial Reporting Council, Internal Chairmans performance.
appointments to organisations that are not Control: Revised Guidance for Directors part of the Group and which could result in formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board These reviews also concluded that both the actual or potential conicts of interest, as recognises that internal control systems are Chairman and Chief Executive continued to well as other situations which could result designed to identify and manage, rather full their responsibilities effectively.
in a potential conict of interest.
The Board than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Re-election of directors is required to review directors actual or business objectives, and can only provide The Companys Articles of Association potential conicts of interest at least reasonable and not absolute assurance require all directors to seek re-election by annually.
Directors are required to disclose against material mis-statement or losses shareholders at least once every three proposed new appointments to the and the breach of laws and regulations.
In addition, any directors appointed Chairman before taking them on, to ensure by the Board must stand for re-election at that any potential conicts of interest can the first AGM following his or her be identied and addressed appropriately.
Any non-executive directors Any potential conicts of interest in relation who have served for more than nine years to proposed directors are considered by are subject to annual re-election.
the Board prior to their appointment.
44 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Internal control system Key features of the internal The Speak Up programme provides The Board determines the level of risk control system a number of alternative ways to raise that it is prepared to accept in the business The Groups internal control system has a concerns including a telephone reporting risk appetite and oversees the strategies number of key features which ensure that line, email, and a web-based reporting for significant risks that have been risk is monitored and managed throughout facility.
Executive management works the year, including those listed below.
facilities are operated by independent within the risk appetite and develops the service providers who submit a report to t The schedule of matters reserved to mechanisms and processes to direct the Speak Up Committee for investigation.
the Board ensures that the Directors the organisation, through setting the tone control, among other matters, all Reports received during the year were kept and expectations from the top, delegating significant strategic, financial and strictly condential and the concerns authority and monitoring compliance.
identied were referred to appropriate management has primary responsibility for t A clear organisational structure managers within the Group for resolution.
compliance with Group policies, principles and limits of authority in respect Where appropriate, action was taken to and compliance requirements.
In certain of items such as capital expenditure, address the issues raised.
The reports functions, notably safety and product pricing and contract authorisation.
were analysed and monitored to ensure quality, executive management has also t A comprehensive planning and the process continued to be effective.
established separate assurance teams to budgeting system for all items of oversee the effective execution of controls.
Controls over financial reporting expenditure with an annual budget The financial reporting control system The risk management function works with approved by the Board.
Performance covers the financial reporting process and executive management and the divisions to is reported monthly against budget and the Groups process for preparing help identify, measure, monitor and report prior year results: significant variances consolidated accounts, and includes significant risks.
The units report regularly are investigated: and revised forecasts policies and procedures which provide for: on progress with the implementation of the for the current financial year and financial Groups strategy, including its impact on the projections for future years are t The maintenance of records that, in risk environment.
Key risks are reviewed prepared regularly.
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly regularly by the Board.
Further information t The Group has comprehensive reect transactions including the on the Groups risk management process safety, product quality assurance acquisition and disposal of assets can be found on page 29. and environmental management t Reasonable assurance that transactions systems.
Where appropriate, these are are recorded as necessary to permit The internal audit function provides independently certied to internationally preparation of financial statements in independent and objective assessment recognised standards: they are also accordance with International Financial of the appropriateness and effectiveness subject to a regular independent Reporting Standards of the Groups internal control systems to audit process.
t Reasonable assurance regarding the the Audit and CR Committees, and to the t The Audit and CR Committees oversee prevention or timely detection of Board.
It has the authority to review any the operation of controls and report unauthorised use of the Groups assets.
relevant aspect of the business and a duty regularly to the Board.
If a failure to report on any material weaknesses.
The In addition, specic disclosure controls of control has a material impact, then Group has a risk-based internal audit plan and procedures are in place to support a detailed investigation, analysis and which is approved by the Audit and CR the approval of the Groups financial action plan would be provided to and Committees.
It is updated regularly to statements.
Twice a year, representatives considered by the Audit Committee, reect changes to the control environment.
from SFI and BI certify that their reported the CR Committee and the Board information provides a true and fair view The findings from audits are discussed with as appropriate.
of the state of the financial affairs of their executive management and action plans Speak Up whistleblowing division and its results for the period.
The put in place where appropriate.
Progress Speak Up, the Groups whistleblowing results of this financial disclosure process against these plans is monitored regularly programme, has been in place for a are reported to the Audit Committee.
by the internal audit function.
Summaries number of years in all operations controlled of both audits and progress on any actions Joint ventures by the Group.
This programme, which is are discussed regularly at meetings of the All material joint ventures follow either the monitored by the Audit and CR Audit and CR Committees.
Groups formal systems of internal control, Committees, is designed to enable or their own internal control procedures.
The Board also commissions external employees, contractors, customers, These separate procedures are subject specialists to supplement internal suppliers or other stakeholders to raise to review by the Groups internal audit processes as appropriate.
Given the concerns condentially in cases where function, and the Group works with its ongoing significant business transformation conduct is deemed to be contrary to the partners to ensure that action plans are activity, in addition to regular reports from Groups Values.
It may include, for in place to address any issues identied the internal audit function, the Board example, actions that may endanger safety: during those reviews.
continued to receive reports from external unethical practices: or criminal offences.
specialists retained to review key elements of the transformation programme.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 45 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | CONTINUED 2014 review of the effectiveness 2014 review of the effectiveness of internal controls of the system of internal control The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is monitored throughout Values and behaviours the year and once a year the Board, with the assistance of the Audit and CR Committees, conducts its own review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk Risk management Financial controls Compliance controls Operational controls management and internal control.
In 2014, process this review was once again facilitated by the internal audit function and covered the period from the start of the financial Responses to questionnaires reviewed by year to the date of this Annual Report.
Global Ethics Directorandinternal audit function The process included a two-stage review to facilitate discussion with the Audit and Output discussed by Audit Committee Output discussed by Corporate Responsibility CR Committees discussing the results in Apriland May Committee in March and May of the two-stage review at their meetings in March, April and May 2014 and the Board then discussed the output at its Responses reviewed by Global Ethics Directorand internal audit function meeting in May 2014.
The 2014 review covered financial, operational and compliance controls, Relations with shareholders Annual General Meeting Values and behaviours and the risk Shareholder communications The 2014 AGM will be held at The Queen management process, and included The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Elizabeth II Conference Centre in London questionnaires and representation letters officer and Group VP, Investor and Media on Thursday 24 July 2014 at 11.00 am.
The internal Relations maintain a regular programme details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
audit function monitored and selectively of visits and presentations to institutional checked the results of this review, ensuring Shareholders have the opportunity to put shareholders both in the UK and overseas.
that the responses from management were questions to the Board at the AGM on The Chairman also undertook separate consistent with the results of its work matters relating to the Groups operations visits to institutional shareholders and the during the year.
As part of this process, and performance.
Resolutions are decided Senior Independent Director met with areas for enhancements to internal by means of a poll and the votes received a number of institutional shareholders.
controls, and associated action plans in respect of each Resolution, together with Feedback on interaction with institutional to deliver them, were identied.
Delivery the level of abstentions, are notied to the shareholders is provided to all directors.
of these enhancements is being monitored London Stock Exchange and published on by the Audit Committee or CR Committee The Investor Relations team provides the the Companys website.
The Board considers that Board with a report on any meetings with offered the choice of receiving shareholder none of the areas identied for major institutional shareholders at each documentation, including the Annual enhancement in relation to the review scheduled Board meeting.
All directors Report, electronically or in paper format, constituted a significant weakness.
receive copies of analysts reports on as well as the choice of submitting proxy the Company.
In addition, the Companys votes either electronically or by post.
Remuneration external advisors give an annual brieng The Board has delegated to the on investors perceptions of Tate & Lyle Remuneration Committee responsibility and its investor relations activities.
for agreeing the remuneration policy for the The non-executive directors are Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial encouraged to attend the full-year officer and senior executives.
The Chairman and half-year results presentations.
is a member of the Remuneration Committee but is not involved in any aspect of his own The Company aims to present remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration a balanced and clear assessment Report on pages 52 to 71 sets out in all its communications with shareholders.
the remuneration policy and the way Key announcements, financial reports in which the established policy has and other information about the Group been implemented.
can be found on the Companys website, www.
46 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014
