Governance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction Dear shareholder The Executive Vice President, HR I look forward to meeting with One of the key areas of focus for the presented to us at a number of our shareholders at the forthcoming Committee is succession planning and meetings to provide us with regular AGM on 24 July 2014. during the year we focused on both Board updates on the progress of the executive Sir Peter Gershon succession plans and executive succession succession planning and talent Chairman of the Nominations planning and talent management.
We will continue Committee to monitor progress for these two core As explained in my statement on page activities during the financial year ending 40, Robert Walker, Senior Independent 31 March 2015.
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is expected to Schneider Ross, who performed the retire during the current financial year after external review of Board effectiveness, serving a full nine years on the Board.
In undertook a review of the Committees preparation for this, we commenced work effectiveness.
The review concluded that on planning for his successor as Senior the Committee was functioning effectively Independent Director and as Chairman and recommended that the Committee of the Remuneration Committee.
We also continue to maintain its clear focus on reviewed the needs of the Board in light succession planning going forward.
of this imminent retirement and have drawn up a specication for an additional non-executive director.
We have retained Spencer Stuart to assist with this search.
Sir Peter Gershon Composition and constitution Main responsibilities of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises These include: blend of skills and experience, the Chairman of the Company, the Chief bearing in mind the need for diversity t Reviewing the size and composition Executive and all of the non-executive t Making recommendations on the of the Board, including succession directors.
It ensures that the balance process for the appointment of the planning, and the leadership needs of skills and experience of the Board Chairman of the Board of the Group generally remains appropriate for the needs t Reviewing annually the performance of t Recommending candidates for of the Group.
each member of the Group Executive appointment as executive and nonCommittee and reporting on that review The Committees terms of reference, executive directors and as Company to the Remuneration Committee.
which are reviewed annually, are Secretary, taking into account the available onthe Companys website, balance of the Board and the required www.
Meetings during the year ended Work undertaken during the year Membership of Board Committees 31 March 2014 During the year and up to the date of The Committee reviewed the composition The Committee met three times during the this Annual Report, in addition to the work of each of the Boards Committees in year.
Membership of the Committee and set out in the Chairmans letter above, conjunction with recommendations from attendance during the year were as follows: the work undertaken by the Nominations the relevant chairmen.
The Committee Committee included: agreed with the conclusions of the Audit Number of Committee effectiveness review that an Directors as at Number of meetings Succession planning additional member should join that 31 March 2014 meetings attended The Committee reviewed succession committee.
To that end, the specication 1 Sir Peter Gershon 33 plans for Executive Committee roles and for the new non-executive director covers Javed Ahmed 3 3 the progress of action plans to address the experience and skills required by Liz Airey 3 3 any gaps.
The Committee continues to members of our Audit Committee.
In review progress on a regular basis.
William Camp 3 3 addition, the Committee recommended Douglas Hurt 3 3 Performance evaluation that Virginia Kamsky join the CR Virginia Kamsky 3 3 The Committee undertook a performance Committee.
The Board agreed with the Anne Minto 3 3 evaluation of each member of the Group recommendation and she joined the CR Dr Ajai Puri 3 3 Executive Committee and reported its Committee with effect from 1 April 2014.
Robert Walker 3 3 conclusions to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee has a formal calendar of items for consideration at each meeting and meets at least twice a year.
50 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014
