Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction Dear shareholder that continuity of the external auditors gained from them: and furthering I am pleased to report on the activities plays a very important role in managing interaction with divisional senior of the Audit Committee.
risk effectively during this transition to new finance management.
systems, processes and ways of working.
Members of the Committee take an active I look forward to meeting with We have therefore agreed to undertake role in understanding aspects of the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM a tender after the Board considers that business and the challenges it faces and, on 24 July 2014. the platform is operating satisfactorily as part of this, the Committee visited the across all our material operations.
In the Liz Airey global Shared Service Centre in dz, meantime, we are undertaking preliminary Chairman of the Audit Committee Poland during the year.
This provided us work to prepare ourselves and the with an opportunity to meet with the local business for the tender.
leadership team and conduct a detailed review of operations.
In preparation for this years audit, I attended part of PwCs initial planning In addition to our usual matters, including meeting where I was able to meet with the financial results for the full year and members of the global audit team.
The half year and the interim management Committee collectively met the US audit statements, applicable accounting policies partner as part of our annual programme.
and going concern assumptions, we continued to undertake in-depth reviews I led a review of the Committees of key topics.
These included risk effectiveness, supplementing the activities s management processes, the management undertaken as part of the external Board of commodities risk and, together with the effectiveness review, explained on page members of the Corporate Responsibility 43.
Both of these reviews concluded that Committee, IT security.
the Committee was functioning effectively y and identied a number of areas for We also considered the timing of the further action.
These include: increasing tender of the external audit contract.
As the membership of the Committee: explained in the Chief Executives Review, reviewing detailed scoping documents for r implementation of the global IS IT platform the in-depth reviews to enhance the value e is ongoing and the Committee believes Liz Airey Composition and constitution Main responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which comprises These include: t Reviewing the effectiveness of the three non-executive directors, oversees internal audit function t Overseeing the Groups financial the Groups financial reporting and t Overseeing the Groups relationship reporting process and monitoring internal controls and provides a formal with the external auditors including the integrity of the financial statements reporting link with the external auditors.
the level of fees and formal announcements relating t Reviewing and monitoring the The Committees terms of reference, to the Groups financial performance external auditors independence which are reviewed annually, are t Reviewing significant financial reporting and objectivity and the effectiveness available on the Companys website, issues and accounting policies of the audit process www.
and disclosures in financial reports t Making recommendations to the Board t Reviewing the effectiveness of the on the appointment or reappointment Groups internal control procedures of the Groups external auditors.
and risk management systems Meetings during the year ended All the Committee members have extensive and representatives of the external auditors 31 March 2014 management experience in large international are normally invited to attend each meeting.
The Committee met six times during the organisations.
It is a requirement of the Code The Chairman of the Board and Chief year and the minutes of each meeting are that at least one Committee member has Executive attend meetings of the made available to all directors via the Board recent and relevant financial experience.
Membership of the Committee and Two members meet this requirement: the Committee continues to enhance attendance during the year were as follows: Liz Airey was an investment banker and its exposure to the business through former finance director of Monument Oil its programme of key topics for in-depth Number of and Gas plc, and Douglas Hurt is Finance review, which involves operational and Directors as at Number of meetings Director at IMI plc and is a member of the other key senior managers presenting 31 March 2014 meetings attended Institute of Chartered Accountants in to the Committee.
1 Liz Airey 66 England and Wales.
Douglas Hurt 6 6 The VP, Group Audit and Assurance Anne Minto 6 6 The Chief Financial officer: VP, Group Audit and the external auditors have direct and Assurance: Group VP, Finance and access to, and meet regularly with, Control: Executive VP, General Counsel: the Chairman of the Committee outside 1 Committee Chairman.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 47 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT | CONTINUED Independence of the external auditors Work undertaken during the year which have driven a reduction in the The Groups external auditors are The Committee maintains a formal pension and healthcare net liability see  LLP PwC calendar of items for consideration at each Note 30 and considered reports from and the Committee operates a policy to meeting and within the annual audit cycle the external auditors before agreeing safeguard its objectivity and independence.
to ensure that its work is in line with the that the assumptions were reasonable.
This policy sets out certain disclosure requirements of the Code.
In addition to In addition, the Committee reviewed requirements by the external auditors to the the activities outlined in the statement from and agreed managements proposed Committee: restrictions on the employment the Committee Chairman, during the year accounting treatment for both the of the external auditors former employees: and up to the date of this Annual Report, September 2013 full buy-in of the and partner rotation.
During the year, the work undertaken by the Committee Amylum UK dened benefit pension the Committee reviewed the processes fell under four main areas: financial scheme, having adopted the calculations that the external auditors have in place reporting, oversight of the external auditors, performed by the external actuary to safeguard their independence, and oversight of the internal audit function, and and the December 2013 transfer of the received a letter from the external auditors internal control and risk management.
dened benefit obligation of Tate & Lyle conrming that, in their opinion, they The Committees work in each of these Netherlands BV.
t Taxation: the Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and The policy also sets out the circumstances Financial reporting provisioning for potential direct tax in which the external auditors may be At each of its meetings during the year, the exposures with local tax authorities is permitted to undertake non-audit services.
Audit Committee reviewed accounting underpinned by a range of judgments.
The Chief Financial officer and Chairman papers prepared by management and The Committee reviewed the Groups of the Committee have authority to approve determined, with the perspective of the principles and processes for managing the provision of certain services up to external auditors, the appropriateness of tax risks during the year and reviewed 100,000 or 250,000 respectively.
key accounting policies, estimates and the key judgments made in estimating The Committee must approve any judgments.
The significant issues that the the Groups tax charge along with the key proposed non-audit services that exceed Committee considered in relation to the disclosures, including a statement of tax those thresholds.
Such proposals must financial statements for the year ended principles, proposed to be included in the be justied and, if appropriate, subject 31 March 2014 are listed below.
Annual Report set out on page 26 and to tender.
In addition, the policy species t Reported and adjusted earnings: the in Notes 11 and 29.
The Committee the services which are not permitted under Committee considered managements was satisfied that the judgments made any circumstances, such as the provision review of reported and adjusted earnings, in estimating the Groups tax charge of remuneration advice and internal to ensure that significant one-off items of were reasonable, and that the tax audit outsourcing.
income and expense had been correctly disclosures to be made in the The Committee reviews the policy on classied, and that external disclosure of Annual Report were appropriate.
an annual basis and considers quarterly these items was appropriate.
In addition to the above items, the reports which set out the ongoing nont Commodity risk: the Group uses Committee reviewed managements annual audit services provided by the auditors corn commodity contracts to manage goodwill impairment assessment paper, and the fees incurred.
and hedge its corn book in the US.
considering future performance of the The valuation of the corn book, which In April 2014, the European Parliament underlying divisions, including discussion is underpinned by a number of adopted proposals which include certain of the discount rates used and forecast judgments, has a material impact restrictions around the provision of assumptions and sensitivities.
on the reported results of the Group.
non-audit services by the auditors and The Committee was satisfied that The Committee participated in a detailed a 70% non-audit services fee cap.
These no impairment charges, or reversal information session led by both executive proposals are likely to come into force at of impairments, were required.
Separate and local US management covering the EU level during 2014 and the Committee papers on the Groups existing and key commodity risks and the risk will revise the policy to reect the new emerging litigation risks were presented management framework in place requirements as they take effect in the UK.
to the Committee and duly considered.
In addition There have been no substantive A breakdown of the fees paid to the to this session, the Committee developments in any material case external auditors in respect of auditand considered the work performed by the in the current year.
non-audit-related work is included in Note external auditors before concluding that 8.
The total amount paid in respect of the the judgments made in determining the External audit Group audit, audit of subsidiaries and joint valuation were appropriate.
PwC or its predecessor rms has been ventures and the half-year review was t Retirement obligations: a number of the Companys auditors since 1989.
The 2 million and 0.2 million was paid in judgments have to be made when lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly respect of non-audit-related services.
calculating the fair value of the Groups basis and, as set out in last years report, Fees paid in respect of non-audit-related legacy retirement obligations.
The the lead audit partner changed with effect services therefore comprised 9% of the Committee reviewed the assumptions from the beginning of the 2014 financial total fees paid to PwC.
proposed by management reecting year in line with this requirement.
advice from the Groups external actuary 48 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Following the conclusion of the audit Internal audit for the year ended 31 March 2013, the Following a competitive tender process, Committee conducted an internal review the Committee retained Independent of the effectiveness of the auditors the Audit Limited to conduct a review of the last external review having been effectiveness of the internal audit function, undertaken in 2010.
As part of the the last external review having been process, the Committee reviewed the undertaken in 2010.
The review concluded auditors performance against criteria that the internal audit function had set at the start of the audit, together with continued to strengthen since that time feedback from management at Group level and make a significant contribution to and at divisional level and considered the the internal governance of the Group.
most recent public report on the inspection A number of areas for incremental of PwC which was issued by the FRC in improvement were agreed and implemented, The global Shared Service Centre the Centre in d, Poland is the principal location for May 2013.
The Committee concluded that including enhancements to the functions handling the financial transactional activities the external audit process was operating charter and planning cycle.
and processes for Tate & Lyle.
The Committee effectively and that PwC continued to has monitored its development since its Internal control and risk management provide effective and independent establishment in 2011.
The Committee continued to receive and challenge to management.
The review In October 2013, the Committee visited the consider regular reports from management Centre and met with senior managers to identied a number of areas for process and the VP, Group Audit and Assurance on understand more about the control environment enhancements which were implemented the effectiveness of the Groups risk in place and the progress the Centre had made and incorporated into the criteria set for in achieving its other objectives, which include management system.
The reports from the the audit in respect of the year ended supporting decision making across the Group latter included the findings from reviews of through the prompt delivery of centralised 31 March 2014. internal financial controls and actions to management information, and providing The Code states that FTSE 350 companies address any weaknesses in those controls.
high quality, consistent advice, support and resolution.
should tender the provision of audit Throughout the year, the Committee services at least every ten years or explain focused in particular on the impact of the their approach, if different.
The Competition implementation of the new IS IT platform Commission has published additional and associated changes to the control proposals that are expected to come into environment, together with any potential effect in October 2014.
These require FTSE impact on financial reporting processes.
350 companies to put their statutory audit It also reviewed controls to mitigate fraud engagement out to tender at least every risk and the Group assurance map ten years.
In addition to this, in April 2014 outlining the key risks and associated the European Parliament adopted assurance processes.
In addition, the proposals which include the requirement Committee reviewed the output from the that audit rms of all EU companies listed annual review of the effectiveness of on a regulated market are subject to internal financial reporting controls and retender after ten years and rotate off after then reported to the Board on that review.
These proposals are likely to As set out on page 48, the Committee come into force at EU level during 2014. undertook a detailed review of the Groups The Committee continues to consider legal approach to managing corn and the and regulatory developments in this regard.
associated hedging processes during the The Committee discussed the timing of a year.
During this session the Committee tender on a regular basis during the considered the controls in place and how financial year ended 31 March 2014.
In light they are being enhanced with the of the output of the effectiveness review implementation of the global IS IT platform.
and the ongoing implementation of the The Committee will continue to keep these global IS IT platform, the Committee activities under review during the year agreed to undertake a tender after the ending 31 March 2015.
Board considers that the platform is operating satisfactorily across all material operations.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC continue to act as auditors to the Group.
PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in ofce, and a resolution that PwC be reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
As explained in the letter from the Chairman of the Committee, activities are underway to prepare the Group for the tender.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 49
