Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance The Board takes corporate governance very seriously and this has been demonstrated over many years with full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Good governance should be focused on how the Board itself operates effectively and alsothe culture within which our businesses operate and conductthemselves.
Achievements for 2014 Dear Shareholder In my capacity as Chairman of the Board, I am very pleased to Continuing full compliance with the 2012 edition of the UK again have this opportunity to make a personal statement on the Corporate Governance Code and embracing the key elements Companys approach to corporate governance.
of the latest September 2014 edition of the Code which will apply to the 2015 financial year.
As I have said before, the Board takes corporate governance very seriously and this has been demonstrated over many years, with full Full compliance with the requirements of the BIS Regulations compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and related legislation on the reporting of remuneration.
and also with its predecessor versions.
To demonstrate the Boards proactive approach to corporate governance, the Company has Establishing a Diversity and lnclusivity Committee designed consistently sought to comply with planned improvements to the to drive forward our agenda in these areas.
Code, and with wider governance initiatives often in advance of their formal application to our reporting years.
The Board receives regular The independent  Board evaluation concluded briefings and updates on corporate governance, both at Board and that the Company has a well-functioning and effective Board which Committee meetings and, where necessary in between such takes its duties and responsibilities very seriously.
meetings, which all Directors find very helpful.
This report on Corporate Governance sets out and explains in clear Further embedding of good governance and improvement terms the processes in place which are essential for delivery of the of controls at all levels of the business through completing long term success of the Company, whilst ensuring that we comply the successful roll-out of enhanced business systems and with all applicable laws and regulations as well as, of course, meeting progressing the updating of key process manuals.
the requirements of our shareholders and their representative bodies, with whom we are always very pleased to engage and have once 2015 Targets again proactively done so during 2014 and into 2015.
The Board To further embed improved Diversity and Inclusivity processes believes that good governance should be focused not only on how across the Group and to better monitor and report on progress the Board itself operates effectively but also on the culture within using an improved HR data capture system.
which all of our businesses operate and conduct themselves.
The Board welcomed the implementation of the Governments To address the recommendations arising out of the Board new regulations on the reporting of remuneration which required evaluation including: additional disclosure to our shareholders in last years Annual Report.
formalising and refining the comprehensive induction processes More generally, 2014 was a year of consolidation in the area of good for new Directors: governance, as the improvements set out in the 2012 version of the Code bedded in, and the changes proposed in the latest edition a continuing focus on succession planning for all key roles across of the Code, published in September 2014, were considered by the Group: the Board.
to continue ongoing improvement of the overall quality of Board reports and presentations: To ensure full compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code which will apply to the 2015 financial year.
46 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk These changes, which apply to reporting for 2015 cover a number As a Board we regularly review health, safety and environmental of areas including in the areas of: going concern: risk management performance, our business strategy, key risks, the market, operational and internal control: requiring remuneration to be designed to matters, customer services, human resources, diversity, corporate promote the long-term success of companies: encouraging greater responsibility, community engagement, our financial position and shareholder dialogue and, further ways to improve the functioning performance, governance and legal matters and, shareholder-related of a Board through wider areas of diversity.
The Board supports each matters including the make up of our share register.
This is done of these changes and these areas are discussed in greater detail in through the consideration and discussion of regular reports this Report and also in the separate Reports of the Audit, Nomination submitted by the Executive Directors and through other reports and Remuneration Committees, which appear later.
and presentations from our senior management and external advisers.
The Board and individual Directors also undertake regular Pursuant to best practice, the Board conducts its annual evaluation visits to our regional businesses and also to their development sites.
exercise via an independent external facilitator once in every three In 2014, the Board visited the West Scotland business unit where it years and it was carried out in this way during 2014 The exercise held a Board Meeting and also met with the local management team was very comprehensive and involved all Directors, both collectively and staff whilst taking the opportunity to visit a number of and individually, plus feedback and insight from external advisers and developments where it received a series of presentations.
senior employees who work closely with the Board.
Consistent with previous exercises, the evaluation proved to be very useful and whilst Appointments and succession As reported last year, Tony Reading stepped down from the Board it was pleasing to note that the report concluded that the Board is well-functioning and effective and is one which takes its responsibilities on 17 April 2014 as an Independent Non Executive Director, broadly coinciding with the conclusion of his third three-year term of office.
and duties very seriously, it also found that there are certain areas for improvement.
I can confirm that the Board will be focusing on these Margaret Ford succeeded him as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from that time and in order to comply with the Code areas during 2015 and more detail is set out on page 50. and the requirement for there to be three Independent Non Executive This Report also seeks to explain what your Board of Directors Directors on the Committee, Kate Barker was also appointed to does and describes how it is responsible for setting the culture and the Committee.
values of the Company, ensuring that the Company is run in the best interests of its shareholders as well as other stakeholders, and how More details on appointments and succession planning, which are it interacts with its shareholders in explaining the Companys strategic led by the Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations goals and performance against them.
From a governance perspective, in these areas to the Board, are set out in the Nomination Committee it is not just a case of what is done but also, and just as importantly, Report on pages 56 to 59. how it is done therefore, we try and avoid a simple box ticking type At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on approach, preferring our governance to be something that is properly 23 April 2015 AGM, all Directors will again be subject to re-election embedded in our people, processes and decision making.
by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
Biographical details A key part of my role as Chairman of the Board is to ensure that the of each Director can be found on pages 44 to 45.
Board retains an appropriate level of independence in order to allow I believe that the balance of the Board, with myself as Chairman, the Independent Non Executive Directors to challenge the Executive three Executive Directors and four Independent Non Executive Directors constructively whilst, at the same time, also supporting them Directors, will continue to provide the right blend of experience, to implement the strategy and run the business effectively.
Another expertise and challenge to ensure good governance so as to enable key part of my role is to ensure that the Board has the right blend of the Company to successfully implement its strategy.
skill, independence and knowledge and this is something that is kept under regular review in conjunction with the Nomination Committee.
ROCE up Share TSR up from 14.6% to price up c. 282% 17.9% c. 267% 2011 14 2011 14 2011 14 47 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance continued Board activities and priorities Board meetings consist of a mix of regular and standard items considered at each meeting and also special items which arise from time to time either annually or as part of key project related work.
The latter are set out below.
Regular items include: receiving and reviewing the business of Board Committee meetings and the minutes of such meetings held since the last Board meeting: a health, safety and environmental report: reports from the Chief Executive on trading and investment, people, the political environment and on customer services.
February 2014 April 2014 May 2014 Reviewing the draft 2013 Annual Report Reviewing the draft Interim Management Receiving a performance and strategic and Accounts and the Corporate Statement to update shareholders on update from the South West Divisional Responsibility report: progress for the year to date: businesses.
Conducting the annual risk review: Reviewing arrangements for the 2014 Annual June 2014 General Meeting: Reviewing the first projection of the Determining the final maintenance dividend for Companys full year results: 2013 and any special dividend for 2014 to be Receiving a performance and strategic proposed to shareholders: update from the West London regional Reviewing the Companys current strategy business.
in the light of the first year end projection: Approving the draft Preliminary Announcement of the Companys full year results: Receiving a performance and strategic update from the South East Divisional Determining actions arising from the 2013 businesses.
Board Committees The Nomination Committee has been closely involved during 2014 The Board has three Committees: Audit, Nomination and in reviewing: Remuneration.
the balance, diversity, independence and effectiveness of the Board: During 2014 the Audit Committee completed its schedule of work a detailed review of succession and contingency planning across designed to ensure full compliance with the provisions of Section the Group in order to achieve the Companys strategic aim of C of the Code, in relation to financial reporting and risk assessment.
attracting, developing and retaining the best quality people at all Full details are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages levels of the Company, and to improve our talent management: 60 to 65.
In brief, the Committee: reviewing strategy: establishing targets: and driving and monitoring established processes to enable it to satisfy itself and recommend progress in improving diversity generally throughout the Group.
to the Board that the information presented to shareholders in These remain key priorities for further development during 2015. this Report and Accounts is, as a whole, a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of our position and prospects Additional reporting on its activities, including more details of progress see page 64 : and plans in each of these areas, in line with the Code, is set out in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 56 to 59. reviewed the performance of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, before recommending to the Board that a resolution be proposed for their re-appointment at the AGM see page 62 : Our Board and Committee structure undertook its very important role with regard to risk management and internal controls so that the Company can closely monitor its exposure to risks which could impact upon the future prospects of the Company and achievement of its strategic objectives see page 63.
The Committee has, during the year, continued to focus closely on these key areas, and will continue to do so throughout 2015.
The Committee also welcomes the new Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Audit Nomination Remuneration Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in Committee Committee Committee September 2014, which it believes will enhance governance in these areas.
More details are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 60 to 65.
48 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk There are also reports from the Finance Director on the latest management accounts and financing position: forward performance forecasts: City expectations: competitor data: risk: IT and pensions: reports from the Group Legal Director on claims and litigation by and against the Company: developments in corporate governance: and other compliance and shareholder matters: and a general update from the Companys stockbroker.
July 2014 September 2014 December 2014 Reviewing the half year results for 2014: Meeting held in the West Scotland business Determining and approving the budget for unit, including meetings with the local team, 2015, apportioning performance targets Reviewing the draft interim statement for 2014: and site visits.
and resources around the businesses: Determining and approving the interim Consideration of the  maintenance dividend for 2014: October 2014 annual Board evaluation: Reviewing the draft budgets for 2015 Considering the outcome of the half year risk Consideration of the 2015 insurance performance and apportioning performance review and the report of the Audit Committee programme: targets and resources around the businesses: on the detailed work thereof: Detailed update on litigation: Detailed update on Health and Safety.
Considering feedback from meetings with shareholders and analysts.
Consideration of Special Dividend mechanism for 2015 to be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
During 2014, the Remuneration Committee has continued its primary responsibility of ensuring that executive remuneration is geared to the enhancement of shareholder value and the delivery of the Companys strategy: and that the rewards for achieving or exceeding those targets are not excessive.
Full details are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 85.
Key areas the Committee focused on or considered are set out below: the engagement with major shareholders and their representative bodies on key remuneration matters in respect of which, the Committee very much values and welcomes their input: the further developments in remuneration planning, set out in the September 2014 revision to the Code, which were welcomed by the Committee and details of the Committees plans for their implementation are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 85: the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at last years AGM in respect of which no changes are proposed or required, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 85, and which incorporates some minor updating so as to reflect the actual operation of the Policy since its adoption and approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
As noted above, due to the fact that there has been no change to the Remuneration Policy, the business of the 2015 AGM includes only one resolution on remuneration namely, the advisory vote on the way in which the Policy has been applied during 2014, as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 85.
For 2015, the Committee has reviewed the performance targets set for the Companys discretionary reward schemes, and has taken into account the likely impact of Government support schemes.
The terms of reference of each of the Board Committees, including an explanation of their role and the authority delegated to each by the Board, appear on the Companys website www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations corporate-governance See pages 66-85 for more information KPI 49 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance continued Diversity Board and committee evaluation process Diversity and inclusivity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK governance agenda during 2014 and the Company has attended and supported a number of Government initiatives and events.
Within Planning Taylor Wimpey, diversity and inclusivity has remained a key priority for meetings, including the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the case during 2015. agreeing scope Our ambitions and views are set out in our Diversity Policy which withfacilitator canbe found on pages 57 to 59 and on the Companys website: June-Aug www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations corporategovernance Consideration Questionnaires by the Board: circulated and Full details of our strategy and progress made to date towards the action plan agreed 1:1interviews policy objectives, are set out in the Nomination Committee Report for 2015: follow up by takeplace on pages 56 to 59. the Chairman with individual Directors Action Sep-Nov Dec-Feb monitor See pages 57-59 for more information KPI Board evaluation Pursuant to the Code, the Board carries out a formal and rigorous annual evaluation which is externally facilitated at least once every Presentation Attendance byfacilitator to byfacilitator at three years.
In accordance with this requirement, the 2014 Board theBoard on Board Committee evaluation was externally facilitated through Independent Board mainfindings meetings Evaluation, a firm which specialises in and which has considerable experience in this field, having carried out evaluations on several Dec Oct FTSE 100 Boards.
The evaluation is an important part of the Boardscorporate governance framework and both the process andoutcome are always taken very seriously by the Board, enable their duties to be discharged effectively and enhance and each Committee and by each individual Director.
strengthen the overall depth of the management team.
Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees additional reporting in three key areas: land investment analysis: and other functions people development: and operations and prospects in the The outcome of the 2013 Board evaluation was reported on London area.
in detail in last years Corporate Governance Report.
The main action points arising from that exercise, and action taken in respect of each, These were addressed during 2014 by introducing separate reporting are set out below: in each area to each Board meeting, which are considered both in their own right and also in relation to the Companys overall strategic a more definitive split between the Chief Executives strategic direction and operational progress.
reporting on progress and prospects, and more detailed operational reviews from senior executives below Board level: As previously mentioned, the 2014 Board evaluation was externally facilitated, in compliance with the Code requirement that this exercise This was addressed during 2014 by appending to the CEOs report be undertaken in this way at least once every three years.
The Board to each Board meeting, the operational reports of the Divisional considered a number of external facilitators before appointing Chairmen of our UK operating business and by their attendance Independent Board Evaluation IBE, which has no other connection at certain Board meetings, so as to provide the Board with greater with the Company and which specialises purely in this line of work.
insight and granularity into the progress in achieving the Companys strategic goals at a more operational level set out on pages 16 to 17.
The evaluation process consisted of the following: further work to ensure the progress made in the area of diversity a comprehensive preliminary briefing of IBE by the Chairman is embedded into the Companys day to day operations and and the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary: forward planning: attendance of a Board and Board Committee meeting by This was addressed during 2014 by establishing a Diversity and IBE as observers, prior to the commencement of interviews: Inclusivity Committee, comprising representatives of the Board detailed and confidential interviews conducted with each Director and representatives of the businesses and HR, to drive the on an individual basis based on a previously circulated list of topics diversity improvement strategy forward and help to embed suitable prepared by IBE and also covering other topics raised processes throughout the business: and by undertaking a number by IBE and by individual Directors: of initiatives designed to improve awareness in recruiting, training interviews with senior executives who interact with the Board and and promotion processes.
also with key external advisers, namely the Companys auditor: further work to refine succession planning and related development broker: and remuneration advisers: programmes for executives: a report was compiled by IBE including recommendations based on best practice for boards as described in the Code and other This remains an ongoing priority and was addressed in part during appropriate corporate governance guidelines.
A report was also 2014 by the making of four senior appointments: the Group HR prepared by IBE on each individual Director covering as Director, the Customer Director, the Planning Director and the Group appropriate, the Chairmanship of the Board and each Board Financial Controller, each having diverse backgrounds that provide Committee Audit, Nomination and Remuneration : both an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge to 50 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk 2014 Evaluation Actions taken during the year Recommendations for the future This years evaluation, details of which are The main action items coming out of The recommendations from the 2014 set out on page 50, was facilitated externally the 2013 evaluation related to maintaining Board evaluation included: the need for via an extremely comprehensive process.
It an ongoing focus on succession planning a continued emphasis on succession confirmed that the Board is well-functioning throughout Taylor Wimpey, improved planning: showcasing talent for succession and effective with a good balance of skills reporting to the Board on certain key matters, planning purposes: additional formality and a positive but not unchallenging to continue to drive the diversity agenda around the induction process for new atmosphere around the board table.
forward and giving the Board more exposure Directors: and to continue the ongoing to senior and upcoming management.
improvement of the overall quality of board Inevitably a number of recommendations reports and presentations.
These are more arose from the evaluation and the Board will These action items have each been fully set out on this page.
work on these during the course of 2015. addressed during 2014 and details of the action taken appear on page 50.
Each of these key areas will remain firmly on the Boards agenda during 2015 and will be reported on in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
See page 50 for more information See page 50 for more information See page 51 for more information KPI KPI KPI IBE met with the Chairman to feedback its main findings arising out Conclusion of the overall evaluation, following which the report on the Board I believe that your Board remains effective and continues to work was discussed by the Board at its December 2014 meeting which well.
I am confident that the Board has the right balance of skills, was attended by IBE and progress on the action points at its expertise and professionalism to continue to deliver strong governance meeting in February 2015. whilst allowing the Executive Directors to implement and deliver the strategy set out on pages 16 to 17.
I am pleased with the Boards Following the December Board meeting, and as part of the process, activity with regard to corporate governance, but we continually look IBE also provided independent feedback to each Committee Chairman for ways to learn and improve.
As ever, I very much look forward to on the performance of the relevant Board Committee: to the Senior meeting with shareholders at the AGM on 23 April 2015 and, as Independent Director SID on the performance of the Chairman: and always, along with all of your Directors who will all be present at the the Chairman on the performance of each individual Director.
AGM, remain available to answer or respond to your questions, Feedback was then provided on an individual basis, by the SID to concerns and suggestions at any time.
the Chairman and vice versa : and through the Chairman discussing Statement of compliance each individual Directors own performance assessment with the For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company complied relevant Director on a one-to-one basis.
with all the provisions of the Code: the Financial Conduct Authoritys As mentioned earlier, it was pleasing to note that IBE concluded that FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules sub-chapters 7.1 and the Board is well-functioning and effective and is one which takes its 7.2 which set out certain mandatory disclosure requirements: the responsibilities and duties very seriously.
Nevertheless, there is always FCAs Listing Rules 9.8.
7AR which include the scope for improvement and the Board has already started focusing comply or explain requirement: and the BIS Directors Remuneration on the action points identified which include: Reporting Regulations and Narrative Reporting Regulations.
These regulations are publicly available at: that there should be a continuing emphasis on succession planning across the Group and that this should include Board level the Code can be found at www.
uk appointments including the Committee Chairmen: the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found the holding of an additional Nomination Committee meeting each at www.
fshandbook info FS html FCA DTR year in addition to any ad hoc meetings, to further consider the FCAs Listing Rules can be found at www.
fshandbook info FS succession planning and related matters: html FCA LR that there should be additional formality around the induction the BIS Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations and process for new Directors as whilst the process is comprehensive, Narrative Reporting Regulations can be found at www.
uk it could be more carefully documented: Yours sincerely that there should be further additional opportunities for showcasing talent with the Board: and to continue the ongoing improvement of the quality of Board reports and presentations.
These, and other more administrative action points will be kept under regular review by the Board and progress against them Kevin Beeston will be reported on in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
