Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee Report The highest standards of governance and risk management are our top overall priorities.
Committee members Number of meetings in 2014: 3 Directors Attendance Rob Rowley 3 Kate Barker 3 Mike Hussey 3 a Tony Reading 1 a Resigned from the Board 17 April 2014. ensured those systems and processes that impact the data Dear Shareholder to facilitate timely decision making were effective: I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman reviewed the alternative bases of accounting open to the Company of the Audit Committee to summarise the ongoing objectives and upon the announcement by the Financial Reporting Council FRC responsibilities of the Committee: the work that has been carried of the ending of United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting out during 2014: and the priorities established for 2015.
Practice UKGAAP : The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its corporate reviewed the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control governance responsibilities relating to the Groups external audit and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the process: internal audit process: risk management and internal control FRC in September 2014. framework: whistleblowing procedures: financial reporting practices: and the preparation and compliance of the Companys Annual Report Key priorities for 2015 are: and Accounts.
to fully implement, and ultimately ensure compliance with, the The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are summarised additional requirements introduced in the September 2014 update on page 61, reflect its responsibilities under the UK Corporate of the Code and to continue to support the Board in ensuring that Governance Code Code, and related regulations.
the requirements of the Code, especially provision C. 1, relating to ensuring that the Companys Annual Report and Accounts present A key requirement of the Audit Committee is that it should evaluate a fair, balanced and reasonable assessment of the Groups position its performance against its key objectives on an annual basis.
and prospects are met: The 2014 performance against objectives was formally assessed to oversee the periodic external evaluation of the Internal Audit by the Committee at its February 2015 meeting.
function to ensure effectiveness and ability to support strong During 2014 the Audit Committee: controls and governance across the Group: reviewed processes designed to meet new governance to consider the process and controls within our key corporate requirements, namely: functions: defined and implemented processes to enable the Committee to consider the Group Fraud Risk Assessment and ensure to advise the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts appropriate measures are in place: meets the requirements of Code provision C. 1 to provide a fair, to maintain focus on the processes that support the Groups balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys execution of strategy: position and prospects: to ensure the risk management framework remains robust reviewed significant issues to be considered in preparing to any changes to the operating environment.
the Annual Report and Accounts: and The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that all the relevant undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of the external codes and regulations are complied with to ensure that the business audit process.
is operating in a controlled and managed environment.
ensured that the One Business, One Solution, Enterprise Resource Yours sincerely Planning 1B1S ERP system is delivering maximum benefit together with a process of continuous improvement supported by a targeted Internal Audit approach to auditing in the new environment: oversaw the embedding of the new 1B1S ERP processes across the UK business: Rob Rowley reviewed the new governance structures over all key business Chairman of the Audit Committee systems including the new 1B1S ERP system: 60 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Audit Committee Main objective The members of the Audit Committee during 2014 and their attendance at meetings of the Committee during that year, To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance are as set out on page 60. responsibilities relating to the Groups internal control framework, internal audit process, risk management, financial reporting Details of the Committees activities during 2014 and priorities for practices and external audit process.
2015 are contained in the Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on the preceding page.
Achievements for 2014 The Audit Committee is chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members of the reviewed processes designed to meet new governance Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as required by requirements namely: the Code.
During the year, Tony Reading stood down from the Board leaving three Independent Non Executive Directors on the Committee defined and implemented processes to enable the Committee which is in line with the requirements of the Code.
The Board has to advise the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts determined that Rob Rowley, who currently chairs the Audit meets the requirements of Code provision C. 1 to provide a fair, Committee at moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, has recent and balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The Chairman position and prospects: of the Company and other Non Executive Directors, the Executive reviewed significant issues to be considered in preparing the Directors, Head of Internal Audit and other senior executives attend Annual Report and Accounts: and Committee meetings by invitation.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the external undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditor, is also invited to attend Committee meetings.
also regularly meets privately with representatives from Deloitte during at least two Committee meetings per annum, which normally take ensured that the One Business, One Solution, Enterprise place around the time of the full and half-year financial statements, in Resource Planning 1B1S ERP system is delivering maximum order to discuss any matters which the auditors may wish to raise in benefit together with a process of continuous improvement confidence, without any Executive Directors other than the Secretary supported by a targeted Internal Audit approach to auditing being present.
in the new environment: The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
oversaw the embedding of the new 1B1S ERP processes across The meetings around the full and half-year results are typically also the UK business: attended by the Non Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee.
reviewed the new governance structures over all key business systems including the new 1B1S ERP system: At these meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which primarily includes: ensured those systems and processes that impact the data to at its February 2014 meeting, reviewing the final draft 2013 Annual facilitate timely decision making were effective: Report and Accounts together with details of risk management process and any significant accounting and audit issues thereon: reviewed the alternative bases of accounting open to the considering issues of materiality and the external auditors report Company upon the announcement by the Financial Reporting on the progress of the audit: conducting a formal compliance Council of the ending of UKGAAP: check: and reviewing the draft Preliminary Announcement of the Groups 2013 results: reviewed the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial at its July 2014 meeting, reviewing the final draft half-year Reporting Council FRC in September 2014. statement for 2014 together with details of the risk management process and any significant accounting issues thereon: considering 2015 Targets issues of materiality and the external auditors report on its review of that statement: and to fully implement, and ultimately ensure compliance with, the additional requirements introduced in the September 2014 update at its December 2014 meeting, a review of its performance of the Code and to continue to support the Board in ensuring that against its objectives during 2014: consideration of the the requirements of the Code, especially provision C. 1, are met: Committees priorities for 2015: approval of updates to the Audit Committee framework: Deloittes audit plan, and report to oversee the periodic external evaluation of the Internal Audit on the progress of the audit to date: monitoring the processes function to ensure effectiveness and ability to support strong whereby the Committee ensures that the 2014 Annual Report controls and governance across the Group: and Accounts meets the requirements of Code provision C. 1, and the performance of Deloitte including their recommendation to consider the process and controls within our key for re-appointment at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee was also corporate functions: briefed on key accounting judgements with regard to the Companys 2014 accounts.
to consider the Group Fraud Risk Assessment and ensure In addition, at each meeting, the Committee also reviewed its other appropriate measures are in place: areas of responsibility, including: to maintain focus on the processes that support the Groups the internal audit process: execution of strategy: and the risk management and internal control framework: to ensure the risk management framework remains robust the Companys whistleblowing procedures and the adequacy to any changes to the operating environment.
of any investigations: 61 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee Report continued progress on embedding systems and processes necessary Appointment of the auditor for non-audit services to maximise the benefits of the new 1B1S ERP system: The Audit Committee has a formal policy on whether the Companys external auditor should be employed to provide services other than checking for any incidences of fraud, actual, alleged or audit services.
In line with the Code, the Committee has regard to the precautionary, and ensuring proper controls and a response relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services plan are in place: and by Deloitte.
This policy requires that there should be a competitive financial reporting practices.
tender process except in narrowly defined circumstances where it is considered that, based on confidentiality, past knowledge and other In carrying out these activities, the Committee places reliance on commercial reasons, there is an advantage in using a single tender regular reports from executive management, Internal Audit and from procurement procedure.
In monitoring the financial reporting practices, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, areas The Committee has determined that the following assignments of judgement, the going concern assumptions and compliance with should not be undertaken by the auditors: accounting standards and the requirements of the Code.
During the year, the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, other bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records statements affecting the Group concerning price sensitive or financial statements: information as necessary.
internal audit outsourcing services: As reported last year, the Audit Committee concluded, in early 2014, the provision of advice on large Information Technology systems: and its constructive dialogue with the Financial Reporting Council FRC following its review of the Companys 2011 Annual Report and services connected with valuation, litigation support, legal, Accounts.
The outcome was enhanced reporting in certain areas recruitment or remuneration.
which were addressed in the Companys previous years Annual The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the maintenance Reports and Accounts.
Consequently, the FRC has concluded of good governance, best practice and auditor independence its review.
External auditor Non-audit services in 2014 predominantly related to work undertaken Re-appointment as a result of Deloittes role as auditors, in particular tax work which As noted earlier, Deloitte LLP is the Companys external auditor.
included some advisory services to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Their performance is kept under regular review by the Board and Deloitte also performed certain real estate advisory work, for which the Audit Committee and the Committee undertook a formal they were selected as they were considered to be the best supplier assessment of the external audit process during the external audit for that service.
All independence considerations were fully satisfied of the Companys 2014 results and Deloittes suitability going forward.
by both the Company and Deloitte for this work.
This review took the form of a checklist and questionnaire issued The Audit Committee fully recognises and supports the importance of to Directors: executives involved in the detailed stages of the audit the independence of auditors.
Its review of the auditors performance process: and a representative sample of employees in regional during 2014 included non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied business units which were subject to audit.
The responses were that the carrying out of the above work did not, and will not going augmented by external feedback on the relative performance forward, impair the independence of the external auditor.
It also of auditors generally, and from regulatory sources.
A summary recognises that, from time to time, there is a clear commercial of the findings was prepared by Internal Audit and considered advantage based on cost and timetable requirements in using by the Audit Committee at its February 2015 meeting.
As a result, the value of non-audit services The outcome of the review was that the Committee recommended work was 0.2m in 2014 2013: 0.2m as set out in Note 6 to the to the Board, which in turn is recommending to shareholders in Accounts on page 110.
Resolution 12 on page 144, that Deloitte be re-appointed as the Companys auditors at the 2015 AGM.
Tender A formal competitive audit tender process was carried out by the Company with regard to the 2008 audit, following which Deloitte was selected to continue as external auditor to the Company.
The current lead engagement partner is Edward Hanson, who assumed responsibility for the 2014 audit under Deloittes partner rotation scheme, having been involved in the 2013 external audit, in order to familiarise himself with its scope and detail as part of the handover process.
The Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least once in every ten years.
The Company also notes the guidance issued by the FRC by way of transitional arrangements.
Therefore, and having due regard to the foregoing, having conducted a tender process in 2007 2008, the Company presently intends to defer tendering again, until completion of Edward Hansons rotation in 2019, but will of course keep the matter under regular review, taking into account the annual performance review to be conducted by the Committee as well as other relevant factors.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys selection of its external auditor.
62 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Internal Audit The principal risks facing the Company, as assessed by the Board, The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency are set out on pages 28 to 29, together with information on action of the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets, taken and or planned to mitigate each one.
to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks and to monitor The Board makes its assessment of risk half-yearly, after overseeing the activities of the Group in accomplishing established objectives.
a bottom-up and top-down review of risk in all areas of the business.
Following each review an Internal Audit report is provided to both Action to mitigate the effect of each one is led by the Chief Executive the management responsible for the area reviewed and the Group either directly or indirectly.
These reports outline Internal Audits opinion of the management control framework in place together with The Boards assessments use a standard methodology which takes actions indicating improvements proposed or made as appropriate.
into account environmental, social and governance considerations.
The Chief Executive, the GMT and senior management consider In compliance with the Code, the Board also regularly reviews the thereports on a regular basis and are responsible for ensuring effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing thatimprovements are made as agreed.
A database of audit a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
The Boards recommendations and improvement initiatives is maintained.
monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational, Follow-up and escalation processes ensure that such improvements compliance and assurance controls which include risk management.
are implemented and fully embedded in a timely manner.
The Groups system of internal control is primarily exercised We belong to and participate in industry-wide forums and other through an established Operating Framework supported by function initiatives aimed at combating fraud within the construction industry.
manuals covering the main disciplines.
Adherence to these is required Summaries of all key Internal Audit reviews and activity and and monitored by management and checked independently by resulting reports are provided to the Audit Committee for review Internal Audit.
At its half-year and year-end meetings, the Board reviews risk in The Internal Audit function also formally reviews proposed related relation to the Companys strategic objectives and its current plans party transactions, such as purchases by employees from Group to deliver them.
It also reviews progress and performance in action companies, to ensure proper procedures are followed and that such taken to mitigate the impact of those risks.
procedures are undertaken strictly in accordance with the formal The Board is supported in this by more regular and detailed reviews, policy in place and, where applicable, company law.
by the Audit Committee, including the review of progress reports from The most recent independent formal evaluation of the Internal Audit Internal Audit, and by operational reviews led by the GMT.
function was carried out on behalf of the Audit Committee during These reviews during 2014 resulted in a number of enhancements 2011 by PwC and its finding was that Internal Audit is operating to internal controls, designed to reduce or better manage risk across effectively.
The next independent formal evaluation is planned the business.
These included the embedding of the COINS and to take place during 2015.
1B1S ERP business systems, which have improved the accuracy, A number of initiatives were progressed during 2014 to ensure the timeliness and uniformity of data used to manage, and report on, Internal Audit function continues to meet both current best practice the Groups businesses, and further work towards updating the and the evolving needs of the Group.
The Internal Audit Charter, Operating Framework and Commercial and Finance Manuals, which which codifies the aims, modus operandi and outputs of Internal guide the businesses in ensuring compliance with Group standards.
Audit, was reviewed by the Committee for ongoing appropriateness.
The Committee reviewed the new Guidance on Risk Management, During 2014, Internal Audit completed the series of controls reviews Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued at each of the 24 UK Regional businesses.
That review focused by the FRC in September 2014.
This aims to bring together elements on assessing the post-implementation success of the Group-wide of best practice for risk management: to prompt Boards to consider 1B1S ERP system.
In 2015, Internal Audit will focus on following how to discharge their responsibilities in relation to principal risks up the recommendations arising from those reviews, as well as faced by the Company: embed risk management and internal considering corporate level activities.
control in the Companys business processes: and highlights The Head of Internal Audit has direct access at all times, to the related reporting responsibilities.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board The Committee welcomes the new regulations, which it believes and also to the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
will enhance sound stewardship by the Board in these areas.
The Risk management and internal control guidance applies for the Companys reporting period commencing The Group has established an ongoing process of risk management on 1 January 2015. and internal control, applying principle C. 2 of the Code.
The Board At its meeting in February 2015, the Board, after conducting its is responsible for the effectiveness of the system of internal control, own review and after reviewing more detailed assessments from which has been designed to meet the requirements of the Group the Audit Committee, remained satisfied that the system of internal and the risks it encounters, including taking account of environmental, control continued to be effective in identifying: assessing: and social and governance considerations.
The systems cannot eliminate ranking the various risks facing the Company: and in monitoring the risk of failure but rather seek to manage both the likelihood of their and reporting progress in mitigating their potential impact on the occurrence and the extent of their impact, and can only provide Company.
The Board also approved the statement of the principal reasonable and not absolute assurance against material risks set out on pages 28 to 29 of this Annual Report.
63 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee Report continued Whistleblowing Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a clear process Code provision C. 1 that includes an externally facilitated hotline through which any The Board has responsibility under Code provision C. 1 for preparing person, including employees of the Company, may, in confidence, the Companys Annual Report and Accounts: for ensuring that it raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the other operational matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in Companys position and prospects: and that it provides the the work place.
All whistleblowing cases are formally investigated information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys by the Head of Internal Audit, Group Health and Safety Director performance, business model and strategy.
where appropriate, Group Human Resources Director and or Process the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary depending The review of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts took on the nature and or seriousness of the issue.
The Chief Executive the form of a detailed assessment of the collaborative process is apprised of all allegations and conclusions of the review.
of drafting them, which involves the Companys Investor Relations: Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the Finance: Company Secretariat: and Internal Audit Departments, with Audit Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on each Audit guidance and input from external advisers.
It ensured that there is a Committee agenda, which allows the Committee to regularly review clear and unified link between this Annual Report and Accounts and the adequacy of the policy in line with its requirement to do so under the Companys other external reporting, and between the three main the Code.
The process is regularly reviewed and the Committee is sections of the Annual Report and Accounts the Strategic Report: satisfied that it remains effective.
the Governance Reports: and the Accounts.
Change of Basis of Accounting In particular, the Committee: A technical matter to be brought to shareholders attention reviewed all material matters, as reported elsewhere in this is a proposed change in the Companys basis of accounting.
Annual Report: The Companys current basis of accounting is UKGAAP which the ensured that it correctly reflected the Companys performance FRC has announced is to change for reporting periods commencing in the reporting year, as described on pages 10 to 39: on or after 1 January 2015.
There were three alternatives open to the Company, and after a detailed review of those alternatives, which ensured that it correctly reflected the Companys business model, included consultation with external parties, including the Companys as described on pages 18 to 23 ensured that it correctly described external auditor, it is proposed to use FRS 101 as the Companys the Companys strategy, as described on pages 16 to 17: basis of accounting for reporting for financial year commencing ensured that it presented a consistent message throughout: and 1 January 2015 and thereafter.
The reason for choosing FRS 101 considered whether it presented the information in a clear and is that it is based on International Financial Reporting Standards concise manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs, to facilitate IFRS, as used generally throughout the European Union, and shareholders access to relevant information.
currently used for the Group financial statements.
It is therefore proposed that the Companys basis of accounting be changed Significant items from UKGAAP to FRS 101 with effect from 1 January 2015.
As part of the above process, the Committee considered the following significant items in connection with the preparation The Audit Committee supports this change, which is largely a of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts: technical matter designed to ensure that the Companys accounts continue to be prepared in an appropriate way, which meets the that the carrying value of inventory is reflective of the lower of standards generally applied by the accounting and auditing bodies of cost and net realisable value and all relevant disclosures are the UK, and remains in line with current law, regulation and guidance.
The Company carries out a net realisable value assessment for inventory every six months, the process and The Group Accounts are not impacted by this change.
The Group results of which are discussed by the Audit Committee.
Statutory Accounts are, and will continue to be prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
that the assumptions used in calculating the net pension liabilities are reasonable and supported by appropriate data and external Formal notice of this change, and details of how shareholders may, advice.
The Company takes external advice, including market-wide if they wish, register their views on it, are set out in Statutory, comparisons, in valuing pension assets and liabilities.
These are Regulatory and Other Information on page 87. discussed and agreed by the Committee.
the Committee also satisfied itself that the underlying business processes that dictate the points of recognition for revenue, and the way in which inventory is costed and allocated, remain appropriate.
As part of the year-end process the Audit Committee received updates on other judgemental areas including provisions and taxation.
The presentation of exceptional items, as well as changes to IFRS, were also considered when reviewing the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
64 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Conclusion A summary of the process and of the Committees findings, was considered by the Board at its meeting on 25 February 2015.
The outcome of that review was that the Committee confirmed to the Board that the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts met the requirements of Code provision C. 1, and the Boards formal statement to that effect, to meet the requirements of the Code, is set out on page 55.
Going concern The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities, taking into account the principal risks identified on pages 28 to 29.
Having considered these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the Groups financing arrangements and capital structure provides both the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
