Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Nomination Committee Report The importance of succession planning cannot be overstated.
Committee members Number of meetings in 2014: 1 Directors Attendance Kevin Beeston 1 Kate Barker 1 Margaret Ford 1 Mike Hussey 1 a Pete Redfern 1 Rob Rowley 1 b Tony Reading 1 a Stood down from the Committee on 1 January 2015. b Resigned from the Board 17 April 2014.
Main objective Dear Shareholder I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman To ensure there shall be a formal, rigorous and transparent of the Nomination Committee to summarise the important ongoing process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, objectives and responsibilities of the Committee: the work that has its Committees and to other senior roles and to ensure effective been carried out during 2014: and its plans for the coming year.
diversity improvements and succession planning processes The Committees key objective is to support the Board in fulfilling its across theGroup.
responsibilities to ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the appointment of new Directors both to the Board and to Achievements for 2014 senior management positions, and to ensure that effective succession Four senior appointments made during the year that provide planning processes are in place across the Group.
both an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge In meeting its objectives, both the Committee and the Board take to enable their duties to be discharged effectively and enhance and into account diversity including gender and fully support the various strengthen the management team.
Government initiatives in this key area.
For example, I and three women colleagues from the business, were very pleased to attend A Diversity and Inclusivity Committee was established, to help drive and participate in the Women on Boards Conference held by the the Diversity improvement strategy forward operationally: embed Department for Business Innovation and Skills in February 2015, suitable processes throughout the business: and identify and as this was aimed at increasing the number of women considered undertake a number of initiatives designed to improve awareness for appointment to FTSE 350 boards in 2015. in recruiting, training and promotion processes.
Each objective: the strategy for delivering them: progress made Succession planning remains a key area of focus across all towards them during 2014 and targets and plans for 2015: is levels of the organisation and the Companys succession plans and described in more detail in this report.
talent pipelines were regularly reviewed at Board level, with further The Committees achievements during 2014 and its plans for 2015, action to support these areas continuing.
Key priorities are to: Conducted a review of the optimum size of the Board which drive our diversity and inclusivity agenda at all levels of the resulted in a structure of the Chairman, three Executive Directors Group: and and four Independent Non Executive Directors in line with the UK to further progress our succession planning, across the Group, Corporate Governance Code, representing a reduction of one.
linking it to career development and professional development.
2015 Targets The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the present and future composition of the Board and the Groups executive To further progress the diversity and inclusivity agenda, including management is appropriate for the delivery of the Groups strategy partnering initiatives with independent organisations: improved and that all relevant UK Corporate Governance Code Code data capture and interpretation processes and reviewing our requirements continue to be met.
Further action to continue to support succession plans and talentpipelines.
To formalise in greater detail the already comprehensive and tailored induction process in place for newly appointed Directors.
Kevin Beeston Chairman of the Nomination Committee 56 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Nomination Committee During the year, we have increased our emphasis on succession The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is planning and people at all levels of the organisation.
As part of this, composed of a majority of Independent Non Executive Directors as both the Board and the Nomination Committee has visibility of a required by the Code.
Its members are set out in the table opposite.
wide range of employees with leadership potential together with Pete Redfern Chief Executive stood down from the Committee with their development plan.
A Talent Management Group comprising effect from 1 January 2015, such that the Committee is now comprised the Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the two Divisional of the Chairman and four Independent Non Executive Directors.
Chairmen of our UK operating business has been established to regularly review succession planning and development and training The Committee has procedures in place with regard to maintaining requirements.
Further actions to support succession planning have a formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board appointments, been introduced, including the development of career paths linked ensuring that appointments to the Board are made on merit and to experience, exposure and education: an assessment and assessed against objective criteria.
The Committee guides the development centre: and the promotion of the Companys mentoring Board in regularly assessing whether there is a correct balance scheme.
We are also focusing upon recruiting individuals from a wider of expertise, having regard to the 2011 report from Lord Davies range of backgrounds, experience and industries at all levels.
Four of Abersoch on Women on Boards the Davies Report and wider senior appointments made during the year: the Group HR Director: diversity considerations, and in arranging the orderly succession for Customer Director: Group Financial Controller: and Head of Planning, appointments to the Board and in respect of senior management each have diverse backgrounds that provide both an appropriate across the Group.
A description of how appointments are typically balance of skills, experience and knowledge to enable their duties made to the Board is set out below.
to be discharged effectively which has enhanced and strengthened the strength in depth of the overall management team.
The Committee oversees on behalf of the Board and advises the Board on, the identification, assessment and selection of candidates Succession planning remains a key area of focus across all levels of for appointment to the Board.
The Committee has a formal, rigorous the organisation.
The Group Management Team GMT regularly and transparent process against objective criteria.
Typically, the reviews the Companys succession plans and talent pipelines, with process of appointment, prior to the decision of the Board, will further action to support these areas continuing.
include the engagement of recruitment consultants, interviews by the candidate with all members of the Board and the taking The Committee considered in detail short and long term succession up of detailed references.
planning for Directors and key executives, together with appropriate development plans.
There was one change in the composition of The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in assessing from the Board during 2014 namely, the retirement of Tony Reading time to time whether the Board has the correct balance of expertise on 17April 2014 after nine years of dedicated service.
In addition, and in arranging orderly succession planning for appointments to theplanned appointment of Margaret Ford as Chairman of the the Board and in respect of senior management across the Group.
Remuneration Committee, in succession to Tony Reading took placeand also the appointment of Kate Barker as a member As part of this process, management below Board level is regularly of that Committee so as to ensure that the Committee had, provided with access to the Board, including the opportunity to at all times, threeIndependent Non Executive Directors.
attend Board Meetings and further Board functions in order to give presentations on specialist topics, project work and the performance The composition and performance of the Board was considered of specific Business Units and Divisions.
during the year following these changes and it was concluded that no As the only change to the Board in 2014 was Tony Readings planned further change was necessary at this stage as it continued to function effectively with four Independent Non Executive Directors, following retirement after nine years service, the Committee only formally met on one occasion with the principal agenda items consisting of: longer Tony Readings departure.
term succession planning, approving the key persons contingency The Committee believes that the balance of the Board, consisting plan and considering progress on diversity across the business.
In ofaChairman, three Executive Directors and four Independent addition wider succession planning and diversity remained on the Board Non Executive Directors, will continue to provide the right blend of agenda regularly throughout the year.
Going forward, and with effect experience, expertise and challenge in order to take the Company from 2015, the Committee will formally meet at least twice a year.
forward in line with its strategy whilst ensuring and maintaining good governance and best practice.
This will however be kept under In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chairman and the Senior regular review in line with the requirements of the Code.
Independent Director, independent of each other, hold meetings at least annually with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Diversity policy Directors present.
The Chairman also liaised closely with each The Board remains committed to the belief that embracing diversity Director as part of the 2014 Board evaluation process.
and inclusion will enable it to succeed through a workforce that is creative and innovative.
The Board has adopted a policy on diversity Appointments and succession planning which is set out on page 59 and is also available on the Companys It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed website at www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are based corporate-governance on merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due regard to the benefits of diversity and inclusiveness, including gender, The Company continues to actively embrace the business and age, ethnicity, experience and thinking.
The Board continues to both localcommunities in which it operates and will strive to reflect their recognise and support the target set by the Davies Report which richness and character so as to include such aspects as gender, originally set an overall target of 25% for FTSE 100 boards in 2015. raceand religion and also diversity of thought, background Currently, two out of the eight Directors are women, representing andexperience.
Going forward, the Board will aspire to at least maintain this level of representation whilst also having due regard to other aspects of diversity as outlined above.
57 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Nomination Committee Report continued The Company is also committed to ensuring that our people are the strategy for further developing diversity and inclusion includes free from any direct or indirect discrimination, harassment or bullying.
plans to: Our grievance and harassment policies ensure that any reported partner with a number of specific diversity partners in 2015 with incidents are investigated.
In addition, our whistleblowing policy an objective to drive the attraction and development of a more encourages employees to speak up against any inappropriate diverse and representative workforce: practices or behaviour.
continue the diversity discussion group meetings with the Diversity and inclusion remained a clear focus throughout 2014 Chief Executive, Group HR Director and different sections which will continue into 2015 and future years.
A working party of the workforce: to further embed diversity and inclusiveness which includes senior management has been established to create at all levels of the Company: and a diversity and inclusion strategy.
The strategy will focus on the introduce a new HR Information System in Q4 of 2015, which challenges faced in developing an inclusive and diverse workforce.
we believe will better capture data relating to all aspects of This includes working with specialist external bodies to maximise diversity and inclusion.
all opportunities, including: The Board believes that by embracing diversity and inclusiveness, developing our policy and raising the expectations from our theCompany will better understand how peoples differences and employees: similarities can be utilised for the benefit of not only the Company but enhancing our awareness training programme: and most importantly also for individuals and society as a whole.
improving how we attract and recruit candidates to enable It is the Boards view that having a diverse workforce will improve us to succeed through a workforce that is inclusive, creative the Companys ability to deliver its strategy: the homes that it builds: and innovative.
During 2014 a number of key activities have taken place: Diversity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK governance agenda during 2014.
Within Taylor Wimpey, diversity has remained all members of the GMT have participated in an interactive a key priority for the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the awareness workshop, designed to give them an insight into the case during 2015.
Although the Board will continue to appoint on impact that disabilities have on the ability to undertake normal day merit, we recognise that boards will generally perform better when to day activities: they include top quality people from a range of backgrounds and diversity discussion group meetings have taken place with perspectives.
Diversity will continue to be a key consideration when the Chief Executive, Group HR Director and different sections contemplating the composition and refreshing of the Board and of the workforce: indeed our senior and wider management.
the new careers website has been completed, including new video The Company has put in place systems to measure and monitor testimonials promoting our approach to diversity: diversity around the Group more effectively.
With regard to gender, articles have been placed in The Diversity Group Directory as at 31 December 2014: and Living with Disability publications, raising awareness of opportunities within the Company: the Board consisted of eight Directors, two of whom are women 25% : we continue to work with our recruitment partners to ensure they understand and embrace our diversity and inclusion agenda: the GMT, which is effectively the executive Board of Taylor Wimpey UK Limited, our main operating company, consisted of eight we recruited 99 2013: 43 apprentices, including 29 site executives, two of whom are women 25% : management apprentices: 50 management trainees 2013: 23 and 19 graduates 2013: 11.
We remain on target with the recruitment there is one woman out of 24 Regional Managing Directors 4% : of our site management apprentices: women across the Group account for 32% 2013: 31% an increase in the number of employees with disabilities recruited.
of the workforce: Working with key partners we hope to increase more permanent 29% 2013: 27% of new starters with the Company during 2014 and secondment opportunities for people with disabilities: were women.
undertaken reward roadshows across the business to While we are making progress, we of course recognise that we still ensure that all employees are aware and understand all of the have more work to do in order to fulfil our overall diversity ambitions Companys remuneration benefits including holiday purchase and as stated on page 56, it is a priority for 2015 to achieve further and childcare vouchers: progress in this area.
the Company hosted a Skills Summit attended by two Government ministers, where a commitment to increasing the apprentice and other career opportunities for young people within the industry was established: 58 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Diversity policy The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity policy, benchmarked against appropriate targets, are set out below.
Progress is measured and monitored by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
Diversity policy Strategy Progress Taylor Wimpey operates in We will examine our culture and In 2014 a working party has been established of senior executives to drive further diverse communities.
We believe practices to determine what further improvement in our diversity and inclusion strategy.
The working party will embed suitable that embracing this diversity will actions can be taken to improve processes throughout the business: assess a number of initiatives designed to improve enable us to succeed through diversity and inclusion within awareness in recruiting, training and promotion processes: oversee the implementation a workforce that is inclusive, Taylor Wimpey.
of improvements: and monitor the results and feedback from participants.
Diversity In 2014, all members of the GMT participated in an interactive awareness workshop, covers many aspects.
We have to gain insight into the impact of disabilities on the ability to undertake day to day activities.
defined diversity to mean that This will be reflected in appropriate business processes and arrangements designed to we actively embrace the facilitate the employment of disabled people.
business and local communities in which we operate and will Diversity discussions have continued with different sections of the workforce, with the active strive to reflect their richness participation of the CEO and the Group HR Director.
These discussions help us to frame and character to include policies and wider diversity strategy in the light of employees own experience and practical such aspects as gender, race, conditions at all levels of the business.
disability and religion but also The new careers website went live during 2014 and includes video testimonials promoting diversity of thought, background the diverse nature of our workforce.
Managing diversity is about We will identify people Articles to raise awareness of opportunities within the Company are now being placed valuing everyone as an management practices that in appropriate publications, such as The Diversity Group Directory and the Living With individual valuing people assist a diverse workforce Disability publication.
as our employees, customers to achieve their full potential.
We plan to partner with a number of specific diversity partners during 2015 with the intention and clients.
People have different We will use our Community of driving the attraction and development of a more diverse workforce.
Our Engagement Programme people management practice Our flexible holiday purchase scheme was subscribed to by 691 employees 2013: 525 and to heighten awareness of personal demands that employment the majority of these were female.
propositions are both consistently The number of employees with disabilities who were recruited during 2014 increased fair but also flexible and inclusive We will increase the opportunities compared to the previous year.
in ways that assist our people for young people to join the while supporting our business Company and will promote Our intention is to further increase the number of suitable opportunities for both permanent needs and objectives.
and secondment employment during 2015 for people with disabilities.
In 2014 we recruited 99 apprentices 2013: 43, 50 management trainees 2013: 23 and 19 graduates 2013: 11.
We remain on target with the recruitment program for site management apprentices.
We believe that everyone We will ensure that all managers During 2014, the Company hosted a skills summit attended by two Government ministers, should have the right to equal involved in recruitment and where a commitment to increasing apprentice and other career opportunities for young access to employment and, selection receive training that people within the industry was established.
when in our employ, to equal incorporates the areas of diversity We continue to work with our recruitment partners to ensure they embrace our Diversity pay and access to training and promoting equality.
We will extend our recruitment The planned introduction during 2015 of an improved HR information system should enable sources in order to attract a more improved data capture to more closely monitor the effects of the improvement strategy on diverse range of applicants.
all aspects of diversity and inclusion and allow our future plans to be amended accordingly.
We are committed to ensuring We will encourage our people to The Companys whistleblowing campaign specifically focused on diversity, encouraging that our people are free from any speak out and report any direct or employees to speak up against any inappropriate practices or behaviour, remains in place.
direct or indirect discrimination, indirect discrimination, harassment Our grievance policy ensures that any reports of harassment or bullying are investigated harassment or bullying.
We will act promptly and acted upon.
not tolerate any behaviour that in addressing any inappropriate detracts from this.
We acknowledge that we must Diversity will be promoted from Diversity is a core message within our strategy: a main item at our Executive and continue to promote diversity in the highest level and we will ensure Regional Management meetings: and is a standing agenda item at GMT meetings.
order to create an organisation that our people understand the Our employee survey in 2014 sought further feedback on Diversity and Inclusiveness that attracts, supports and benefits of having a diverse and and the outcome demonstrated that there is an extremely high level of recognition promotes the broadest range inclusive workforce.
of this issue amongst employees.
Establishing an organisational culture with diversity as a core value will enable individuals to reach their full potential and to provide the best service to our customers.
