DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE corPoraTe Governance sTaTeMenTs The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It considers Board and committee attendance all issues relating to the strategy, direction and future The table below details the number of Board and committee meetings held during the year ended 25 January 2014 Statement of Compliance with the Code development of the Group.
The Board has a schedule of and the attendance record of each director.
Following the Companys entry into the FTSE 250 index during matters reserved to it for decision that is regularly updated.
The the year ended January 2013, the Company became subject to requirement for Board approval on these matters is understood Board Audit Remuneration Nomination additional requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code meetings Committee Committee Committee and communicated widely throughout the Group.
The Code is issued by the Financial Reporting executive directors meet with the Chairman separately during Number of meetings held 12 3 4 1 Council and is available for review on the Financial Reporting the year.
In addition the non-executive directors meet without Raymond S Kelvin 11 N A N A N A Councils website www.
The Board confirms that the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Lindsay D Page 12 N A N A N A the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year, except in respect of Code Provisions Operational decision making, operational performance and the David Bernstein 12 3 4 1 C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 audit and remuneration committees to have formulation of strategic proposals to the Board are controlled Anne Sheinfield 12 N A 4 1 at least three independent non-executive directors.
Provision by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee meets Ronald Stewart 12 3 3 1 A.
3.1 of the Code requires that the chairman should on regularly throughout the year.
appointment meet the independence criteria prescribed by the To enable the Board to function effectively and the directors to Audit Committee Statement Code.
The Company considers Chairman David Bernstein to be discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is provided independent notwithstanding that, prior to his appointment as During the year, Ronald Stewart was Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee.
The other Committee member to all relevant information.
There is an agreed procedure for Chairman in January 2013, he had served on the Board for more was David Bernstein.
directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, than nine years from the date of his first election and therefore at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access did not satisfy the independence criteria under Provision Following the Companys entry into the FTSE 250 index during the year ended 26 January 2013, the Company became every director has to the Company Secretary.
The Board considers David Bernstein to be subject to additional requirements of the Code, including Provision C. 3.1. which provides that the Committee should comprise independent in character and judgement due to his extensive at least three independent non-executive directors, and that the chairman should not be a member of the Committee.
The The Company maintains an appropriate level of director and experience, and to be a valuable member of the Board.
Board recognises that the Company has not been compliant with Provision C. 3.1 of the Code during the year but considers officer liability insurance cover in place and, through the David Bernstein, notwithstanding his appointment as Chairman, to be a valuable member of the Committee because of his Articles of Association and directors terms of appointment, Statement about applying the Main Principles recent and relevant financial experience.
Andrew Jennings was appointed as a member of the Committee on 14 March 2014. has agreed to indemnify the directors against certain liabilities of the Code to third parties and costs and expenses incurred as a result Significant Issues Considered by the Audit Committee The Company has applied the Main Principles set out in the of holding office as a director.
Save for such indemnity A summary of the key matters considered by the Committee during the year is set out below: Code.
Further explanation of how the principles have been provisions in the Companys Articles of Association and in applied is set out in this section of the Directors Report and, the directors terms of appointment, there are no qualifying Agenda items March July October in connection with directors remuneration, in the Directors third-party indemnity provisions in force.
Financial Statements Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 39.
KPMG Audit Committee paper - The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced The Board and understandable assessment of the Companys position KPMG Management letter - - and prospects in its external reporting.
The Directors were The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, Group Audit Plan - - responsible for the preparation and approval of the Annual the Chief Executive, one other executive director and three Internal Audit Report and Accounts and consider them, taken as a whole, independent non-executive directors.
Biographies of these Findings of internal audit reviews - - to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe that this directors appear on page 25.
The Board is of the view that its provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Key tax risks and approach current membership provides an appropriate balance of skills, the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
experience, independence and knowledge, which enables it Risk management - - to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
Policies The Board undertook an informal evaluation of its own Impairment policy review - - performance, its committees performance and the The Board considers Non-Executive Directors Ronald Stewart, performance of its directors, with continuing assessment Terms of reference of the Committee - - Anne Sheinfield and Andrew Jennings to be independent for undertaken throughout the year in review.
Informal the purposes of the Code.
Further, as referred to above, the Whistle blowing - - evaluations and assessments conducted by the Board and Board considers Chairman David Bernstein to be independent Non-audit services provided by KPMG - - its committees covered a range of issues around Board notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more Employment of former KPMG staff - - and committee membership, Board and committee roles than nine years from the date of his first election.
and responsibilities and Board and committee processes.
Non-audit spend - - As referred to above, the Board intends to review the Other matters process around a formal externally facilitated evaluation of Resourcing performance for the year ending January 2015, in light of the Succession planning - - provisions of the Code.
Systems implementation plan - - Review of changes to the Code - - Post investment appraisal stores - - The main areas of judgement and estimation are set out in the accounting policies on page 57.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 13 14
