52 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee Membership of the Audit Committee The UK Code provides that all members of the Committee should be independent non-executive Directors.
Independent non-executive Directors Simon Batey Chairman October 2007 John OReilly Maurizio Carli May 2011 October 2007 Nancy Cruickshank Claudia Arney February 2014 October 2013 Simon Batey The Chairman, whose biography is included on page 45, Audit Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience from a number of finance director and audit committee roles: The integrity of the Groups financial results Senior members of financial management attend and present and the effectiveness of its risk management at meetings other than during private discussions between and internal control systems are important both the Committee and the Auditors : Representatives of the external Auditors attend and present to Directors and to shareholders.
They are also at meetings other than during discussions regarding their critical to the way the Groups business is performance : and operated as they are required to measure and to The Internal Auditor also attends and presents at meetings.
sustain achievement of its strategic objectives.
Specific objectives achieved in 2014 As the Audit Committee, we assist the Board in its oversight Continued to stay focused on the Committees top priorities and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and of financial reporting and related internal control risk: internal controls.
We test and challenge these areas in Continued to monitor accounting judgements and estimates conjunction with management and the internal and and prepared for possible accounting changes: external auditors as appropriate.
Developed appropriate procedures for the Committee to assess the reporting of the Company under the new In this report, I summarise our activities in 2014. governance requirements: Reviewed the achievement of risk management objectives: and Developments during the year Monitored assurance of non-financial KPIs.
In the past year, along with the management team, we: Developed a process of assessing the reporting of the Specific objectives set for 2015 Company under the new governance requirements introduced Continue to stay focused on the Committees top priorities last year.
This includes reviews by adisclosure committee, of financial reporting and related internal control risk: on which representatives of the Board and financial and Continue to monitor accounting judgements and estimates operational management sit: and prepare for any accounting changes: Continue to apply appropriate procedures to assess the Reviewed and monitored assurance in connection with the reporting of the Group under latest governance requirements: Companys non-financial KPIs including consideration of the Review the annual reporting of the Group in the context of basis ofthese and their importance to the assessment of latest best market practices: and performance of the Group: Monitor the Groups assessment of the level of Developed an enhanced process for the assessment of distributable reserves.
the effectiveness of the Auditors, including completion of a questionnaire on their performance by key members of management: and In conjunction with the CSR Committee, reviewed the arrangements in relation to anti-bribery training, agreeing enhancements to these where considered appropriate.
Public reporting UK Code Principles: As a Committee, we review and comment on both the financial The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant information and non-financial information in the Groups Annual risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 53 Audit Committee calendar for 2014 March April May June August September October December January February July November Reviews of: Reviews of: Half-year results Consideration of plans for preparation of KPI reporting Annual Results, including consideration of: including the annual results, including: Plans for assessing Report of the interim Group considerationof: Report of the Interim Group CFO efficiency of auditors Finance Director Report of the interim Report of the Auditors Progress in Report of the Auditors Group CFO Reviews of: preparation of Going concern Report of Proposed increases in audit fees Annual Report Results of assurance process the Auditors Report on Internal Reporting, Controls for non-financial data Draft results and Risk Management Draft Annual Report announcement Report from the Internal Auditor Draft results announcement Draft investor Plans following abolition of formal Draft investor presentation presentation requirement for Interim Management Performance and independence of Recommendation Statements the external Auditors to the Board on the Annual Internal Audit report and plans results Effectiveness of the Committee Reviews of: The Committees Terms of Reference Internal Reporting Recommendations to the Board on: and Risk The annual results Management Re-appointment of the Auditors Agreement of Objectives for 2014 Reviews of financial Reviews of reports on: Consideration of Reviews of: reporting including: Risk management internal audit: Minutes of previous meetings Any proposed Risk registers Reports Reports on implementation of actions changes to Internal control Plans from previous meetings accounting policies Recommendations Key assumptions, Implementation judgements and estimates proposed by management Developments in reporting and accounting requirements affecting the Group Non-audit work by, and fees to, the external Auditors Reports prepared by management.
This includes consideration of One purpose of our reviews is to assess whether the key judgements and estimates in the context of reports on these information in the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced from both management and the external Auditors.
Our timetable and understandable assessment of the Groups position and for this is included on the Committees calendar above.
To assist with this process of review, the Committee received and considered a report by a disclosure committee We met formally as a Committee four times in 2014.
Ahead of comprising of executive and non-executive directors and each meeting, I discussed relevant accounting matters with the members of management.
Thisincluded an assessment of Chief Financial Officer and the senior financial team.
I also whether the Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced discuss relevant audit matters in advance with our audit partner.
As part of thisassessment, a review was This helps me to lead focused and informed discussions of undertaken of the positive and negative themes included and agenda items with my Committee colleagues at our meetings.
to be included in the Annual Report.
At each meeting At specific meetings 54 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee continued Significant issues The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
At each Audit Committee meeting management presents a paper on significant accounting policies and estimates.
The Committee has considered all significant estimates and judgements as identified in note 2.5 to the financial statements, however the main areas of focus during the year are set out below: Significant issue considered by Audit Committee How addressed Property, Plant and Equipment Due to the nature and materiality of the data centre assets the Accounting for new build data centres is a standing item on the Committee is focused on appropriate accounting for property, accounting paper which is presented at each Committee meeting.
In particular, new-build data centres require Accounting treatments associated with new build data centres careful consideration during the construction stage, which can were discussed.
Particular focus was given to the rates of take several years.
The main areas that require consideration are depreciation and capitalisation of costs, in particular relating depreciation and capitalisation of pre-build costs.
to data centres that are brought into use in discrete zones.
Impairment Non-current assets, in particular property, plant and equipment The judgements relating to asset impairment relate primarily to and intangible assets are a material component of the the assumptions underlying the value in use calculation, primarily balance sheet.
the achievability of the long term business plan underlying the valuation process.
These assumptions were considered by the IAS 36 requires that an impairment test is conducted annually Committee, including the weighted average cost of capital which for goodwill and intangible assets of indefinite life.
formed an initial basis for determining the discount rate.
Impairment reviews are judgemental by their nature, and careful Impairment of the Turkish cash generating unit was a focus the consideration is required of the cash flows and assumptions used.
Committee following identification of an indication of impairment.
The value in use calculation was presented to the Committee along with a sensitivity analysis.
Discount rate, growth rate and cash flows were considered.
Presentation of financial statements The Group presents an additional performance measure to Adjusting items are a standing item on the accounting paper its statutory results being the adjusted results.
which is presented at each Committee meeting.
Challenge was given to items reported as exceptional, in particular: The adjusted results are presented as they are considered the increase in onerous lease provisions, and impairment to provide further insight into the underlying performance of and other charges associated with the investment in Turkey.
Three items are eliminated in arriving at the adjusted results: exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, and other financing items.
Onerous leases The Group performs an annual review of leases to determine The results of the annual review of leases were presented to whether they are onerous.
The provision for lease commitments on the site in Munich was discussed at each meeting of the Committee throughout the year.
Managements assumptions for the future net cash flows associated with the lease were reviewed.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 55 As a Committee, we also review the Groups half year results We review such matters at each main meeting and consider that prior to publication in a similar way as for the full year results.
none of the areas identified for enhancement during the year Committee members review the Groups twice yearly interim constituted a significant failing or weakness for the Group.
trading updatesas part of their detailed review and comment In addition, members of the Committee assist in providing by the Board as a whole rather than at specific Audit Committee input to management outside meetings when the occasion arises.
We consider this approach appropriate in view of the For example, during 2014I held discussions with David Crowther, limited amount of financial information contained in the Groups our Group Financial Controller, when he was serving as our interim interim trading updates and the thorough review process Chief Financial Officer, to discuss matters as they arose.
undertaken by the Board, although we will continue to keep this under review.
We consider that the information that we receive as a Committee is sufficient to enable us to review the effectiveness of the Further information regarding the preparation of the Group Groups risk management and internal controls.
These accord accounts is included in the Directors Report commencing with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee.
Of course, they on page 133. manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business objectives.
Whilst they cannot provide absolute assurance, Internal control and risk management framework and we believe they provide reasonable assurance against material procedures misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups internal financial control framework and procedures are set out in the table below.
Maintenance of the independence of the external Auditors A review of the Groups system of risk management commences We have developed procedures relating to the provision of on page 34. non-audit services by the Groups external Auditors.
Under these procedures, non-audit work and the fees involved require Through the processes outlined in that review: approval by the Audit Committee, after taking account of any Areas for enhancement of internal controls and risk potential risk of a conflict of interest arising then or in the future.
management are identified: This is subject to fide minimis amounts of routine work involving fees of no more than 10,000 which may be necessary between Action plans to deliver such enhancements are devised: and Committee meetings that are then reported at our next meeting.
Delivery is then monitored by management and by us as a Committee.
The key elements of the Groups internal financial control framework and procedures include: The close involvement of the executive Directors, including The main aims of the internal audit reviews are to ensure: regular meetings with the senior management team to review Operation of an effective system of internal control at operational aspects of the business: Group and subsidiary levels: Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority, Production of accurate, relevant and timely financial including definition of matters that require Board approval: information by each subsidiary: A comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, Safeguarding of the Groups assets through physical budgeting and cash forecasting and control through controls and segregation of duties: which financial accounts are prepared and submitted to Proactive risk identification and mitigation through appropriate the Board monthly: monitoring and controls: and Regular preparation of profit and cash flow forecasts, Compliance with Group policies as well as applicable laws to monitor actual against expected performance: and regulations.
Regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee at which financial information is reviewed and business risks The Group recognises the benefits of an effective internal audit are reported upon and monitored: function and reviews reports from the Groups internal auditor Annual review by the Audit Committee and Board of the at each of its main meetings.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems: and Reviews by the Groups internal audit function of specific areas of operations selected in consultation with the Audit Committee.
Reports of these reviews are discussed with senior members of the finance team and the Chairman of the Audit Committee before being presented to and considered by the Audit Committee.
56 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Companies Act sets out two discrete classifications of The Audit Committee has assessed the performance and non-audit work provided by statutory auditors: audit-related effectiveness of the external audit process in the past year assurance services and other services.
Audit-related assurance primarily through the use of an audit quality questionnaire, in services include work required by law or regulation, for example which the finance manager of each subsidiary was invited to review of interim financial statements, which would normally be feed back on the audit process.
Where appropriate, comments performed by the statutory auditors.
They also include extended arising from the questionnaire were discussed with the audit work that is integrated into the statutory audit.
More detailed follow-up is scheduled, in conjunction with the individual subsidiary statutory accounts process.
During the year, the audit-related assurance services provided The results of the overall assessment were discussed with the by the Auditors to the Group included the review of the half year Group finance team, before being presented to the Committee, results, assistance with grant claims, and operational assurance.
to help inform our recommendation to the Board for the annual Other services performed by the Auditors in 2014 related mainly re-appointment of the external auditors.
On behalf of the Audit Committee The fees paid for these other services during the year represented 24% 2013: 23% of the fees paid for the statutory audit and audit-related assurance services together.
Excluding the audit-related assurance services, they represented 31% 2013: 29% of the statutory audit fee.
Further details of these amounts are included in note 8 of the accounts.
Simon Batey As a Committee, we are satisfied that the work undertaken by Chairman of the Audit Committee the Auditors with the safeguards they have in place has not threatened their overall independence.
10 February 2015 Since year-end, management has proposed, and the Committee has approved, engagement of the Auditors in certain work in relation to assurance and analysis of distributable reserves within the Group.
After careful consideration, the Committee approved this as additional assurance work that would not involve making recommendations to management or the Group.
Work that would involve the giving of recommendations or a detailed implementation plan would, if they became appropriate, not be handled by the Groups Auditors.
We have a policy so that, before any former employee of the external Auditors may be employed by the Group, careful consideration must be given as to whether the independence of the Auditors will be adversely affected, and our approval is required.
This particular circumstance has not yet arisen.
PwC were appointed as the Groups Auditors in June 2008 on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee was not then, nor is now, subject to any contractual or other restrictions as to the choice of external auditors.
Engagement partner rotation within PwC for the Group Audit has been completed twice since appointment, most recently in 2014.
We are mindful of changes and potential changes to the requirements for external auditor selection, given recent reviews by the Competition Commission and the EU.
Whilst we do not consider it necessary to have a policy for rotation of external audit firms, we intend to consider placing the audit out to tender in the coming years.
UK Code Principles: The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
