Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 67 Report of the Nominations Committee Membership of the Nominations Committee The UK Code provides that independent non-executive Directors should comprise the majority of the Committee.
Board Chairman independent on appointment Independent non-executive Director with month of appointment to the Committee John Hughes Chairman Oct 2007 John OReilly Claudia Arney Senior Oct 2007 Independent Director June 2013 John Hughes, CBE Nancy Cruickshank Simon Batey Nominations Committee Chairman June 2013 Oct 2007 Maurizio Carli April 2012 Having an appropriate range of high calibre The Groups Chief Executive Officer normally also attends Directors on our Board is key to determining meetings although this would not be the case if the Committee and maximising success in the Groups strategic was discussing matters in connection with the appointment objectives.
Having appropriate succession of his successor : The Group HR Director may also attend and give presentations planning for the Board and senior management at meetings: and is essential to ensuring that this success can be The Chairman would not chair any meeting in connection sustained over the long term.
with the appointment of a successor.
As the Nominations Committee, we assist the Board in the Specific objectives achieved in 2014 key areas of composition and succession planning for the Commenced identification of high-potential employees Board and the senior management of the Group.
In this report, and their integration into succession planning: I summarise our work.
Continued focus on increased diversity: and Continuedplanning for non-executive succession in the light Recruitment of New Chief Financial Officer of approach towards the nine year time horizon after IPO.
During the year we completed the recruitment process Specific objectives set for 2015 I mentioned in my report last year for a new Chief Financial Recruitment of a new CEO: Officer.
This process was undertaken with the assistance of Identification of high-potential employees and their integration Russell Reynolds following on from their selection for this into succession planning: recruitment by the Committee after consideration of a number Continue to focus on increased diversity: of firms.
Continue development programmes for key leadership talent The process for this appointment is described in the diagram and succession planning for the senior management team: and on page 68.
We took the time in the process to ensure that we Continue succession planning for the longest serving were able to appoint acandidate of the high calibre we were non-executive Directors on the Board appointed at the seeking forthe role.
Recruitment of new Chief Executive Officer During the year, we also commenced the search for a new Chief Executive Officer following the announcement that Mike Tobin was stepping down from this role.
Egon Zehnder was appointed to assist the Company in this on the recommendation of the Committee following consideration of a number of firms.
As a Committee, we developed a detailed specification for the role and profile of the candidate to be sought.
We are following a similar process to that employed in the successful recruitment of Eric Hageman and will report on this more fully in our Committee report next year.
UK Code Principles: All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
68 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Nominations Committee continued Nominations Committee calendar for 2014 January March May August September December February April June October Reviews of: Reviews of: Review of Chief Financial Review of Chief Executive Officers Committee report for Chief Financial Officers Officers recruitment update recruitment progress and plans inclusion in Annual Report recruitment progress and recommendation to Agreement to undertake Committee objectives the Board Board Evaluation using Senior management for recommendation external consultants structure in the Group to the Board Annual Review July November of Committee Terms of Reference Recommendation of Recommendation of John Hughes Non-executive directors appointment of Claudia as chairman of the CSR committee succession planning Arney as Senior Independent Chief Financial Officers Chief Executive Officers recruitment Director as part of the Board recruitment progress progress report succession planning Reviews of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on actions agreed at previous meetings Selection process for new Chief Financial Officerappointed during 2014 Candidate specification The potential candidates Interviews and selection by Recommendations to and Nominations Committee confirmation by the Board The specification for the Russell Reynolds prepared candidates to be sought a longlist of potential The Nominations Committee, The Nominations Committee was determined by the candidates from a specific in conjunction with the Chief recommended a shortlist Nominations Committee, search as well as their Executive Officer, then of potential candidates for in conjunction with the own database.
selected candidates for consideration by the Board.
Chief Executive Officer, interview to establish the This identified a diverse Following interviews by all and agreed with the Board.
suitability of each candidate range of candidates meeting Directors, and in agreement for appointment.
This had objective criteria the specification.
with the Nominations including the capabilities This selection was on the Committee, the Board and characteristics required basis of skills, knowledge appointed Eric Hageman to add to the diversity and and experience and also as Chief Financial Officer.
balance of skills of the Board of character and ability to whilst complementing the provide the Group with the existing Directors.
qualities required for its long-term ambitions.
Russell Reynolds was selected from a number of high profile recruitment firms to assist with the identification of candidates.
UK Code Principles: All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
At each main meeting At specific meetings Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 69 Length of tenure of Directors IPO AGM Oct 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Apr 2015 7 years since IPO John Hughes 7 months Eric Hageman 2 years Claudia Arney 7 years Simon Batey 4 years Maurizio Carli 2 years Nancy Cruickshank 7 years John OReilly Actions taken in response to 2013 Board and Committee Evaluation 2013 Evaluation Recommendation Action in 2014 in response Ongoing evolution of reports to the Board in line with The Board received regular reports on the Groups regions from the the development of the Group Vice Presidents responsible for each region Focus on relevant themes for future business These matters were refined with management and external consultants developments be increased along with early discussion during the year of key challenges by management Greater opportunity be taken for external strategic and Specialist external speakers on various matters of strategic interest other speakers to give presentations at Board meetings gave presentations to the Board during the year The frequency and length of Board and other meetings The Board maintained the frequency and length of its main meetings be considered during the year although with interim conference calls as required and agendas focused on matters of particular importance Succession Planning and People Development continue Succession planning was reviewed in the context of management to be reviewed by the Nominations Committee changes during the year and will continue to be an area of focus Appointment of non-executive Directors Letters of appointment of our non-executive Directors set out All our non-executive Directors were also selected through the time commitments normally required, as does mine for my previous externally facilitated recruitments, as was I as Chairman role as Chairman.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of of the Board.
All our non-executive Directors are independent, activity at particular times and we are all flexible in managing as was I on appointment although under the UK Code, I am not these.
We notify the Board of any significant changes to our other considered to be independent after appointment as Chairman.
Our letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and I believe the process that we have followed to appoint directors our Annual General Meeting AGM.
has created a diverse group of non-executive Directors, along with our CFO and me to provide the required range of skills, knowledge Succession planning and experience to the Board and the executive team.
We have developed a succession planning process for Biographies of all Directors are included on pages 44 and 45. management in the Group.
This includes encouragement and facilitation of the development of each individual as well The progressive appointment of Directors over past years has as career progression as opportunities arise, such as in the assisted in refreshing the membership of our Board as shown in increasing regionalisation of the management of the business.
the length of tenure of Directors diagram above.
This has similarly enabled us to refresh the membership of our Committees for The Committee has continued its review of succession planning which we have shown months of appointment in the introductory in relation to our two longer-serving non-executive Directors, sections of their reports.
We review the terms of our Directors Simon Batey and John OReilly, who have now served on the annually, in line with their annual retirement under the UK Code Board for seven full years.
as we did at meetings over the past year.
70 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Nominations Committee continued Board Evaluation process facilitated by Egon Zehnder Comprehensive questionnaire containing a series of open questions requiring narrative answers Completed by all Directors covering the following areas: Strategy and implementation Performance of each of the Board Committees Succession planning and talent development Director self-assessment and training needs Board dynamics, operations and information flow Confidential interviews by Egon Zehnder with Directors and seven senior managers Expanding on answers given in questionnaire in open discussion Including separate interviews both with Directors and senior managers Lasting between approximately one and two hours each Results of the questionnaire and interviews and drawing of conclusions The results are to be presented and discussed at a Board meeting early in 2015 and are intended to be reported upon in the 2015 Annual Report.
Follow up meetings and discussions The Chairman and non-executive Directors met during the The non-executive Directors met in the absence of year in the absence of the executive Directors to review the the Chairman and executive Directors to review the performance of the executive Directors.
The review included consideration of the roles held by Board and Committee evaluation Simon Batey as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Critical to the success of our Board and Committees in achieving Senior Independent Director and John OReilly as Chairman of the their aims is the effectiveness with which they operate.
It also included separate discussion Accordingly, we take our evaluation of this very seriously.
with them regarding their personal plans.
The Committee has A summary of our Board and Committee evaluation process concluded that Simon Batey and John OReilly continue to be fully this year, which was again, as in the prior year, externally facilitated independent and considers that the interests of the Company by Egon Zehnder, is shown in the chart above.
A summary of and its shareholders are best served by there being no changes to the actions we took in response to our evaluation process in these roles at present.
We have, though, commenced planning for 2013 is shown on page 69.
I will report to you next year on the the transition of these roles over the coming terms.
The process actions taken in response to our 2014 evaluation, and on our of change commenced during the year with the appointment of 2015 evaluation.
Claudia Arney as Senior Independent Director.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee Re-election of Directors All our Directors retire at every AGM under the UK Code.
If decided appropriate by the Board, Directors may be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders.
In reaching its decision, the Board acts on our advice as the Nominations Committee, taking account of the results of our Board evaluation.
This year, we intend to propose all Directors for re-appointment.
All our non-executive Directors are key members of the Board, John Hughes, CBE each bringing valuable and unique skills, knowledge and Chairman of the Nominations Committee experience to its overall effectiveness.
Their Individual details are given in their biographies on pages 45 and 45.
10 February 2015 Following our evaluation of the Board, I, as Chairman, confirm that the performance of all our non-executive Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
As already commented upon, discussions on the process for the planning for succession of our longer serving independent non-executive Directors has commenced.
UK Code Principles: The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
