AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Audit Committee the Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Julian Schild and Melvin Lawson in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision C. 3.1.
Michael Pavia is also identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Attendance at Committee meetings during the current year by Committee members is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 37 of this document.
In accordance with best practice, the Committee has the opportunity, as required, to meet with the external auditor of the Company without the presence of any executive directors and has done so during the current year.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: reviewing the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and the direction of the external auditor to investigate any matters of particular concern: assessing the effectiveness of the Companys external auditor, including considering the scope and results of the annual audit: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and assessing any potential impact on objectivity resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance: and reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and other internal control and risk management processes.
The senior management team and executive directors periodically review the effectiveness of key internal control and risk management processes within the Company and report any changes in such activities to the Audit Committee and the external auditor for consideration.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Companys half year and annual financial statements.
The Committee advised the Board that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole provided a fair, balanced and understandable picture of the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
44 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Committees review of the financial statements included a detailed evaluation of the significant accounting issues therein.
The actions taken by the Committee in regard to these are described in the table below.
ISSUE ACTION TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE Operational accuracy of billing system Review of external auditor procedures which included Computer Assisted Audit Techniques CAATs.
Monitoring of regulator communications Ofgem, BABT and monthly monitoring of detailed call centre statistics which would indicate significant billing issues.
Valuation and recoverability of trade receivables Review of key assumptions underlying the recoverability of trade receivables based on historical experience.
Revenue recognition and recoverability of unbilled Review of key assumptions underlying the recoverability energy revenues of unbilled energy revenues based on industry reports and historical experience.
Accounting treatment for new energy supply Review of key aspects of new energy supply arrangements arrangements to determine the most appropriate accounting treatment including whether the acquired entities fall within the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Risk of management override of internal controls Review of significant accounting estimates and judgements in relation mainly to receivables balances.
Also, in conjunction with the Companys external auditor, the Audit Committee has considered, amongst other matters, compliance with the provisions of the Code and accounting developments, the Companys financial control environment and its risk management and control processes.
As part of this process the Audit Committee has also considered the need for any special projects or internal investigations and concluded that no such projects or investigations have been required.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 3.5, the Audit Committee has also considered the need for an internal audit function at the Company and has concluded that, in the light of its review of the internal controls in place and the report of the external auditor, no such function is currently required.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS The external auditor presents a detailed audit report to the Audit Committee following a review of the annual financial statements.
Having regard to its review of the work performed by the external auditor during the year and its approach to key audit issues, the Audit Committee remained satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 45 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In reaching this conclusion, the Committee reviewed: the experience and expertise of the audit team: the scope and eventual fulfilment of the detailed audit strategy: the robustness and perceptiveness of the audit team in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements: and the nature and quality of the content of the external auditors report.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders at the AGM, the reappointment of BDO LLP BDO as the Companys external auditor for the coming year.
The Committees position in relation to BDOs tenure and the audit tendering requirements of the Code are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE In order to guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditor being compromised, the provision of any significant additional services aside from audit and tax compliance remains subject to the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee would normally be likely to prohibit the provision of the following types of non-audit related work by the Companys external auditor: book-keeping and work relating to the preparation of accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: financial information system design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services in respect of material assets: internal auditing: investment advice or corporate broking: and any other work where mutual interests exist that could compromise the independence of the external auditor.
During the year the Audit Committee pre-approved the provision of reporting accountant services to the Company by the external auditor relating to the new energy supply arrangements with Npower which included the acquisition of Electricity Plus Supply Limited and Gas Plus Supply Limited from Npower Limited the Engagement.
The Committee reviewed the services to be provided under the terms of the Engagement and concluded that in the light of the nature of the work proposed, and the level of the associated fees as set out in note 2 of the financial statements on page 90 of this document, the external auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised.
Furthermore the Committee concluded that the external auditor was best placed to provide the services given the tight timetable for the Engagement and the external auditors inherent understanding of the Companys existing energy supply arrangements with Npower which were integral to the transaction.
46 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Committees conclusion in relation to the external auditors objectivity and independence was based on the following key points against the background of the APBs Ethical Standards: i the external auditor would not be undertaking any decisions on behalf of management, providing investment advice or acting as an advocate for the Company as a result of the Engagement: ii the fee for the Engagement was not contingent, was priced on a consistent basis to other similar projects and was not material to either the external auditor or the Company: iii the subject matter relating to the Engagement would not be incorporated into the Companys financial statements and therefore no self-review threat existed: iv the Engagement was to be completed well before the commencement of the audit for the year ended 31 March 2014 and therefore could not conceivably unduly influence the conduct of the audit: and v the Engagement would not pose a threat to independence through increased familiarity of audit personnel with the Company as the main aspects of the Engagement were to be carried out by a completely separate department within the external auditors organisation.
REPORTING OF STAFF CONCERNS The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Michael Pavia, is the primary point of contact for staff of the Company to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
All employees have been notified of this arrangement on the Companys intranet website which sets out Michael Pavias contact details Code provision C. 3.4.
No such matters were raised by employees during the current year.
Michael Pavia Chairman of the Audit Committee On behalf of the Board 20 May 2014 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 47
