Corporate governance report The Board itself has evolved substantially over the past two years from its historical structure of broadly balanced Executive and Non-executive representation to its current shape of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer being the only Executive members of the Board.
It is important to view these changes in the context of management development generally and in particular the development of a strong Executive Committee under Philip Clarke, the individual members of which generally attend Board discussions of matters reflecting their responsibilities.
This allows the Board to operate as a smaller group, supporting real, robust and penetrating debate while ensuring continued contact with a range of senior business executives.
Board structure is not set in stone.
At any point in time it must Sir Richard Broadbent reflect the requirements and state of development of the business Chairman in order to be effective.
The Tesco Board will continue to evolve to best match the needs of the business.
In this section This Corporate Governance Report is intended to provide shareholders with a clear and comprehensive view of the Groups governance arrangements and how they have operated over the past year.
This year, to improve transparency, we have structured the report Sir Richard Broadbent as follows: Chairman p30 Introduction from the Chairman p31 Our corporate governance framework p31 Corporate governance highlights p33 Audit Committee Report p37 Corporate Responsibility Committee Report p38 Nominations Committee Report p39 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Introduction from the Chairman This section of our Report sets out how we manage Tesco to ensure as far as possible that the values you would expect us to operate by are in place and adhered to, that commercial and operational risks are identified and controlled, that we have strategies and plans in place to optimise shareholder value over an appropriate time period and that a proper system of checks and balances is in place without inhibiting the efficient running of the Company.
Our approach to governance remains unchanged.
It begins with the recognition that governance is not simply a set of rules but the framework supporting core values which define what is and what is not acceptable.
It is an expression of the way we want to conduct ourselves which informs actions and decisions whether or not there is a specific rule for the situation, and which supports the culture and behaviours that we wish to foster.
I remarked last year that the governance framework, and perhaps more importantly the corporate culture and human relationships that underpin all governance frameworks, are operating as we hoped and that we felt that further material changes were unlikely.
I am glad to confirm this assessment and consequently there are few new developments to report as the changes I reported on this time last year have settled in and the Board has focused on its task of balancing the short-term competitive and economic pressures with the need to invest to ensure the business is a leader in the world of multichannel retailing.
30 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our corporate governance framework Board Tesco PLC Board Corporate Nominations Audit Remuneration Disclosure Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Property Social Commercial Compliance Multichannel People Matters Technology Strategy Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Group Committee Committee Committee Meets when required The work of the Board is supported by five key Committees: the Corporate governance highlights Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nominations, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees.
Board focus during the year During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide range The role of the Disclosure Committee includes to assist and inform of matters.
These included: the Board in making decisions concerning the identification of inside information and make recommendations about how and when the Strategy Company should disclose the information in accordance with the Performance overall and of individual businesses and Companys Disclosure Policy.
The Committee meets as necessary to functions in the Group consider all relevant matters relating to inside information.
It will in Budgets and long-term plans for the Group particular meet in advance of the release of all trading statements Financial statements and announcements and other announcements of inside information to ensure that they Reviewing reports from its Committees, notably on are true, accurate and complete.
The Committee met 11 times management development, succession and remuneration during the year.
Corporate and social responsibility Pensions The Committees terms of reference can be found at Health and safety www.
The Group Chief Financial Officer CFO Shareholder feedback and reports from brokers and analysts chairs the meetings.
Other members of the Committee consist of Risk management and controls in the Group relevant senior management and Executive Committee members.
Delegated authorities Further details on the other Board Committees can be found The Board also had two offsite meetings dedicated to strategy.
on pages 33 to 36 Audit : 37 Corporate Responsibility : 38 Nominations : and 41 to 61 Remuneration.
All the Committees In addition to its regular programme of activities, the Board made report back to the Board after each meeting.
a number of strategic decisions in the year, which included: The Board delegates to the Group Chief Executive CEO the Divestment of the US-based Fresh & Easy business to Yucaipa responsibility for formulating and, after approval, implementing Entry into a joint venture with China Resources Enterprise the Groups strategic plan and for management of the day-to-day Limited in China operations of the Group.
Entry into a joint venture with Tata Group in India Acquisition of 100% of the restaurant group Giraffe in the UK The Group Executive Committee, which the CEO chairs, supports the CEO in carrying out his role and manages the day-to-day Changes to the Board operations of the Groups business.
The Group Executive Committee The Board was pleased to announce the appointment of two new comprises the CEO and CFO and a number of senior executives.
Non-executive Directors during the year.
Olivia Garfield joined the The Group Executive Committee has established a number of Board on 1 April 2013 and Mark Armour joined on 2 September 2013. sub-committees which assist in its work and ensure: Both Olivia and Mark bring a wealth of skills and experience to the Board which are detailed in their biographies on page 26.
Laurie Strategic choices are properly considered Mcllwee, Group CFO stepped down from the Board as an Executive New growth opportunities are fully discussed Director on 4 April 2014.
The Board is commencing a process to find Progress against the Groups priorities is reviewed a new Group CFO.
We do not anticipate further substantial changes to the size of the Board in the foreseeable future, although, as noted The membership of the sub-committees comprises a mix of in the Chairmans introduction, the number of Directors may change Group Executive Committee members and senior management with the normal process of Board development.
The sub-committees report to the Group Changes to the Board since 23 February 2013 Executive Committee after each meeting on their work and issues Olivia Garfield Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board with are escalated for discussion and or decision to the Group Executive effect from 1 April 2013 Committee or the Board as appropriate.
Mark Armour Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board with effect from 2 September 2013 Laurie Mcllwee Executive Director Resigned from the Board with effect from 4 April 2014 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 31 Corporate governance report continued Changes to the Board Committees The results of the review were considered by the Board, To ensure appropriate balance and succession potential in the which agreed that the Board had continued to develop and Boards Committees, a number of changes have been made as mature and had performed well against the criteria defined in detailed in the table below: 2012.
Some examples of the themes and agreed actions from the 2013 2014 evaluation are summarised below: Changes to the Board Committees since 23 February 2013 Themes Agreed actions Mark Armour Audit Committee Appointed as a member with effect from 2 October 2013 Management information and analysis Certain improvements in the composition, timing and analytic commentary on business and competitor Olivia Garfield Audit Committee Appointed as a member with information would be implemented.
effect from 1 April 2014 Arrangements for briefing Directors Jacqueline Corporate Responsibility Appointed as chair with effect on commercial business initiatives would Tammenoms Bakker Committee from 1 March 2014 be enhanced.
Deanna Remuneration Appointed as a member with Board meetings, agendas and The Board programme would be Oppenheimer Committee effect from 1 March 2014 time allocation re-structured to add one additional meeting to ensure adequate time and focus of discussion.
Length of service and independence of Non-executive Directors Sustaining contact with the business The Non-executive Directors would have additional opportunities to spend time in The length of service and independence of each Non-executive different business units and have Director is shown below: increased contact with senior management.
Length of service and independence of each Non-executive Director A re-induction programme would be Non-executive Date of Full years in post Considered to be organised for those Directors appointed more than three years ago.
Director appointment at 2014 AGM independent by the Board Sir Richard 2 July 2011 3 Broadbent Board meetings Last year the Board moved to a pattern of six formal meetings Mark Armour 2 September 2013 annually, plus a strategy meeting and ad hoc meetings were Jacqueline 1 January 2009 5 also arranged to deal with matters between scheduled meetings Tammenoms Bakker as appropriate.
Board meetings were preceded by a day of Committee meetings and by a dinner the previous evening.
Patrick Cescau 1 February 2009 5 Board meetings themselves lasted the majority of the day in Ken Hanna 1 April 2009 5 most cases.
This pattern of meetings was intended to support the Boards focus on strategic and long-term matters, while ensuring it Gareth Bullock 3 July 2010 4 could discharge its monitoring and oversight role effectively through Stuart Chambers 3 July 2010 4 intensive high-quality discussions and high-quality information flows.
The effectiveness of this approach was reviewed at the end Deanna 1 March 2012 2 of last year and the Board will plan to have seven formal meetings Oppenheimer annually henceforth.
Olivia Garfield 1 April 2013 1 Board attendance Considered independent upon appointment Number of possible Actual meetings Board evaluation meetings attended attended This year the Board evaluation was conducted internally and Non-executive Directors led by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Director SID led the review of the Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman 6 6 Chairmans performance.
The evaluation combined the use of a Mark Armour 3 3 questionnaire completed by each Board member and in-depth interviews with each of the Directors.
The scope of the review Gareth Bullock 6 6 covered a range of factors relevant to the effectiveness of the Patrick Cescau 6 6 Board, including the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board, its diversity and how the Board Stuart Chambers 6 6 works together as a unit.
Olivia Garfield 6 6 In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Board last Ken Hanna 6 6 conducted an externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2011 2012, which was facilitated by Egon Zehnder.
The intention is to continue Deanna Oppenheimer 6 5 with the three-year cycle whereby the Board will conduct an Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 6 6 externally led review in one year, followed by internally led reviews in the subsequent two years, one led by the SID and one led by Executive Directors the Chairman.
Philip Clarke 6 6 Laurie McIlwee 6 6 Appointed to the Board 2 September 2013 32 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit Committee Report Audit Committee responsibilities The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
Ken Hanna, Mark Armour, Patrick Cescau and Gareth Bullock all have recent and relevant financial experience.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Consider the appointment of the external auditors, their reports to the Committee and their independence, including an assessment of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work Review the financial statements and announcements relating to the financial performance of the Company Review the internal audit programme and ensure that the Internal Audit function is adequately resourced and has Ken Hanna appropriate standing within the Company Audit Committee Chairman Discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit Audit Committee attendance Review, and challenge where necessary, the actions and judgements of management, in relation to the interim and Number of possible Actual meetings annual financial statements before submission to the Board Members meetings attended attended Review formally the effectiveness of the external and internal Ken Hanna Chairman 5 5 audit processes Consider managements response to any major external or Mark Armour 2 2 internal audit recommendations Patrick Cescau 5 5 Review the Companys plans for business continuity Review the Companys plans for the prevention and detection Gareth Bullock 5 5 of fraud, bribery and corruption Appointed to the Audit Committee on 2 October 2013 Report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities The Audit Committee has an integral role in providing confidence in the integrity of the Companys processes and procedures inrelation to internal control, risk management and corporate reporting.
The Committees role continues to be increasingly challenging due to the changes and uncertainty in the regulatory, economic and political environment in which the business operates.
This year, pursuant to the new requirements under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the Committee was requested by the Board to support it in assessing whether the report and accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and provide sufficient information to allow an assessment of the Company.
The Code also required new specific disclosures to be made on the work of the Committee, including significant issues which it has considered in relation to the financial statements and how these have been addressed.
During the year the Committee was pleased to welcome Mark Armour as a member.
He brings with him a wealth of financial and wider experience gained over many years in business.
The Committee is also pleased to welcome Olivia Garfield as a member with effect from 1 April 2014.
Ken Hanna Audit Committee Chairman Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Corporate governance report continued Activities during the year members of senior management and Internal Audit.
During the year the Committee received update reports from a The questionnaire assessed external audit in the following number of businesses, including Tesco Bank, and also from the areas: qualification: expertise and resources: operational Disclosure Committee and Compliance Committee.
It also received effectiveness: independence and leadership.
The results are updates from Internal Audit on its work, including findings from its rated against an ideal standard and compared to prior years internal audit programme.
The Committee considered a variety of to assess the consistency of performance.
matters including the Group Finance Risk Register: fraud, bribery and corruption: business continuity management: the Grocery The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was assessed Supply Chain Compliance Code: whistleblowing arrangements: by means of a detailed questionnaire which was also completed and non-audit fees.
The assessment covered the Internal Audit functions understanding of its role and responsibility, its charter, In relation to the financial statements the Committee: reviewed the quality of its communications, its performance and the skills and recommended approval of the half-yearly results and annual and expertise of the team.
financial statements: conducted impairment reviews: reviewed and recommended dividend levels: reviewed corporate governance The Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness during disclosures and monitored the statutory audit.
The Committee also the year via the Committee Chairman conducting interviews with advised the Board on whether the financial statements, taken as a key stakeholders and the use of a questionnaire.
The Committee whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provide the concluded that it continues to be effective and has sufficient necessary information to assess the Companys performance, resources to carry out its duties.
The Committee considered a number of significant issues in the The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit year taking into account in all instances the views of the Companys process by means of a detailed questionnaire completed by key external auditors.
The issues and how they were addressed by the stakeholders, including the Board, the Executive Committee, Committee are detailed below: Significant financial statement reporting issues Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis The Committee reviewed managements assessment of going concern with consideration of forecast cash flows, including sensitivity to trading and for the financial expenditure plans and potential mitigating actions.
The Committee also considered the availability of financing facilities and the capital and liquidity statements plans of Tesco Bank.
Based on this the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Fixed asset The Committee assessed managements impairment testing of property assets, considering the appropriateness of key assumptions and impairment methodologies for both value in use models and fair value measurements.
This included review of cashflows, growth rates and discount rates and the use of independent third party valuers.
The Group has recognised a 734 m charge for the impairment of European stores in the year.
China disposal group The China disposal group is measured at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
The Committee considered the methodology and valuation assumptions used in the valuation including review of cashflows, growth rates and discount rates used, valuation multiples for similar transactions and companies and the appropriate level of synergies to include in the valuation.
As part of this procedure, the Committee met with the independent expert valuers engaged by management to assist in the valuation process.
A 540 m write-down to fair value less costs to sell was recognised at year end.
See Note 7 to the financial statements.
Goodwill impairment The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill for potential impairment.
This review included consideration of key assumptions, principally cash flow forecasts, long-term growth rates and discount rates.
The Committee concurred with management's judgement that no impairment was required.
See Note 10 to the financial statements, Goodwill and other intangible assets for more details.
Tesco Bank The Committee reviewed managements judgements made in relation to Tesco Banks provisions for customer redress, loan impairment provisions judgemental matters and insurance reserves.
The Committee received detailed reports from management regarding these judgements and interfaced directly with the Banks own audit committee and board to develop a detailed understanding of the matters.
During the year, an additional 63 m of provisions for customer redress were recognised.
See Note 24 of the financial statements.
Income statement The Committee considered the presentation of the Group financial statements and, in particular, the appropriateness of the presentation of one-off non-GAAP measure items in the calculation of underlying profit in light of the latest FRC guidance on the matter.
It reviewed the nature of items identified and whether presentation treatment was even-handed, consistent across years and appropriately presented movements on items which have an effect over a number of years.
The total restructuring and other one-off charge for the year was 801 m. The Committee notes that commercial income was an area of focus for the external auditors based on their assessment of gross risks.
It is the Committees view that whilst commercial income is a significant income for the Group and involves an element of judgement, management operates an appropriate control environment which minimises risks in this area.
As a result, the Committee does not consider that this is a significant issue for disclosure in its report.
34 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Training External Audit The Committee continually assesses the need for training and the The Companys external auditor  LLP annual agenda provides substantial time for technical updates which PwC contribute a further independent perspective on certain are generally provided by external experts.
During the year, training aspects of the Companys financial control systems arising from was provided on corporate governance developments and accounting its work, and report both to the Board and the Audit Committee.
Training is also provided on an ongoing basis to meet the specific needs of individual Committee members.
PwC have served as the Companys auditor since 1983 and the last audit tender was carried out in that year.
The partner engaged on Internal and External Audit the audit is changed regularly.
The current partner is due to rotate It is essential for the Committee to be able to have an honest after the year ended February 2017.
The Audit Committee keeps and open relationship with both its external and internal auditors.
under review the ongoing legislative proposals on audit tendering This relationship is developed and maintained through regular and rotation from the EU and the Competition Commission, now private meetings with both PwC and the Head of Internal Audit.
the Competition and Markets Authority, and will implement them Further information regarding the roles of both Internal Audit in accordance with the suggested timescales.
and External Audit can be found below.
The engagement and independence of PwC is considered annually Internal Audit by the Audit Committee before it recommends its selection to the The Internal Audit function is independent of business operations Board.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC remain independent and has a Group-wide mandate.
It undertakes a continuous and are best placed to conduct the Companys audit for 2014 2015. programme to review the internal control and risk management The Committee therefore recommends that PwC be reappointed processes with particular reference to the Code.
risk-based methodology, ensuring that the Groups key risks receive appropriate examination each year.
Its responsibilities include: The Company has a Non-audit Service Policy for work carried out by PwC.
This is split into three categories as explained below: Maintaining the Group Key Risk Register Facilitating oversight of risk management arrangements Pre-approved work for external auditors this is predominantly across the Group through structured reviews with senior the audit of subsidiary undertakings statutory accounts and is management teams in the UK, Europe and Asia covering audit-related in nature our operating businesses and joint ventures Work for which Committee approval is specifically required Using the results of these reviews to assist the Executive this includes transaction work and corporate tax services, and Committee to refresh and update the Group Key Risk Register certain advisory services Reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of risk Work from which the external auditor is prohibited management systems and internal controls to senior management, the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and ultimately to the Board Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 35 Corporate governance report continued To safeguard auditor objectivity and independence the Committee shareholder circular required to approve the formation of our joint oversees the process for the approval of all non-audit services venture.
PwC were best placed to conduct this work as they had provided by PwC.
Prior to approval, consideration is given to previously conducted the audit work for Tesco and were fully aware whether it is in the interests of the Company that the services of the history of our business in China.
are purchased from PwC, rather than another supplier.
Where any significant non-audit related work is required fee value This year the Committee approved PwC to complete 1.2m of 300k, the pre-approval of the Committee is specifically required.
These services principally related to the In total 4.7m 2013: 2.9m was spent on non-audit fees being audit of the accounts of the Tesco China business in relation to 46% of the total spent with our external auditors and details of the preparation of the China Resources Enterprise Limited CRE the significant items are shown in the table below: Business area Work undertaken Rationale for use of PwC Amount Group PwC carried out due diligence work related to the CRE PwCs detailed knowledge and understanding of 1.8m transaction in China.
our business and retailing in China meant they were uniquely placed to assist us in this key task.
The Committee considered the proposal carefully to ensure that the independence of the due diligence team from the ongoing audit relationship was preserved.
UK PwC carried out consultancy work in the UK around PwC were evaluated against other potential 1.2m organisational development.
consultants for this work and won the engagement based on the quality of their service offering.
Their role was one of facilitation.
All reorganisation design decisions were taken by management.
UK, Europe and Asia In Asia PwC carried out tax consultancy principally PwCs understanding of the structure of our business 0.6m related to the tax implications of the CRE transaction ensured that they were well placed to carry out this in China and legislative compliance in South Korea: work cost effectively.
and, in Europe and the UK, the advice centred around compliance with VAT regulations.
The fees paid to the auditors in the year are disclosed in Note 3 of the financial statements.
36 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate Responsibility Committee Report Identify and monitor those external developments which are likely to have a significant influence on the Groups reputation and or its ability to conduct its business appropriately as a good citizen and review how best to protect that reputation or that ability Oversee the creation of appropriate policies and supporting measures Monitor the Groups engagement with external stakeholders and other interested parties Ensure that appropriate communications policies are in place and working effectively to build and protect the Groups reputation both internally and externally Activities during the year Last year we introduced a new core purpose: we make what matters better, together.
We also articulated a new Value to Sir Richard Broadbent help us achieve our core purpose: we use our scale for good.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Its based on the recognition that by using our skills and scale, we can make a significant contribution to major challenges Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance facing society.
Number of possible Actual meetings We chose to take a lead in tackling three challenges which Members meetings attended attended were particularly relevant to us as a large global retailer and Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman 3 3 are important to our colleagues, customers and communities.
Patrick Cescau 3 3 Our three big ambitions are: Deanna Oppenheimer 3 3 To lead in reducing food waste globally Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 3 3 To improve health and through this help to tackle the global obesity crisis Corporate responsibility is an integral part of how our business To create new opportunities for millions of people around operates.
It reflects the inescapable reality that if the values of a the world business fail to resonate with the values of society, it is endangering long-term prosperity.
Tesco is committed to identifying and living the These three ambitions build on our essential responsibilities as a values which are important to our colleagues and customers and the good corporate citizen in terms of trading responsibly, reducing Corporate Responsibility Committee provides a forum to ensure the our impact on the environment, being a great employer and Board gives adequate attention to this.
Last year we introduced a new Value: we use our scale for good, Over the last 12 months weve worked hard to embed our new and during the year we have made considerable progress in Value through the business.
We want to help deliver significant, embedding that Value into our business.
Some of the highlights long-term change and so our focus has been on examining the of our work are described below.
The full ambit of the Committees problems and developing clear and focused plans of action: work can be gauged by reading the Tesco and Society Report 2014 insight-to-action.
We have engaged with experts in the different which accompanies our Annual Report and Financial Statements.
We have held roundtable discussions on a range of subjects including health, young people, food sourcing and food waste.
After chairing the Committee for the last two years it has been agreed that I should rotate off as the Chairman of the Committee In tackling food waste we have published our own operations and that Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker would take over the chair waste data which has been independently assured by KPMG.
We have also developed profiles of some of our most frequently purchased products showing where most food waste occurs in the Sir Richard Broadbent value chain from farm to fork.
Identifying these hotspots means Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman that we can focus our action plans where we can make the biggest difference.
In improving health, our new Healthy Little Differences Corporate Responsibility Committee responsibilities Tracker will map the health profile of our customers shopping trips The Corporate Responsibility Committee was established in 2012 over time.
In providing opportunities, we have carried out extensive to ensure that the Board maintains an adequate focus on corporate research with young people to find out their ambitions, the responsibility in its widest sense.
The Committees terms of reference challenges they face and the support that they need.
During the year, the Committee was updated on the progress The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: made on our three big ambitions and discussed the performance measures for this work.
The Committee was briefed on the Define the Groups corporate and social obligations as a development of an advisory panel which would share views responsible citizen and oversee its conduct in the context and insights from outside the business, look at best practice of those obligations and emerging trends, challenge current thinking and collaborate Approve a strategy for discharging the Groups corporate to help find solutions.
The Committee also discussed the results and social responsibilities in such a way as to command of the latest research on reputation.
respect and confidence Further information is available in our Tesco and Society Report 2014, which can be found on our website at www.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Corporate governance report continued Nominations Committee Report Activities during the year The Committee divides its time broadly between reviewing executive management development and succession planning: and reviewing Board development and governance matters.
This year the Committee discussed the progress which had been made on culture and capability in the past 24 months, including rolling out new leadership skills and developing the capability of business leaders, and advancements in succession planning and diversity.
The Committee also reviewed succession planning for senior roles and the management development programmes which are in place to ensure adequate bench strength and appropriate skills are developed across the business.
Sir Richard Broadbent With regard to Board development and governance, the Committee Nominations Committee Chairman identified and recommended two appointments to the Board.
Olivia Garfield joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on Nominations Committee attendance 1 April 2013 and Mark Armour joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on 2 September 2013.
Both Olivia and Mark bring a wealth Number of possible Actual meetings of skills and experience to the Board which are detailed in their Members meetings attended attended biographies on page 26.
Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman 2 2 The Committee considers a number of factors when making new Patrick Cescau 2 2 appointments, including what the new Director will add to the Stuart Chambers 2 2 balance of skills and experience on the Board, and whether the Director will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company Ken Hanna 2 2 to discharge his or her responsibilities.
We worked with the external search consultancy Lygon Group, which does not have any The Nominations Committee divides its time broadly between connection with the Company, as well as using our own networks, reviewing executive bench strength and succession and overseeing to identify candidates.
The year was marked by a continued focus on executive bench strength and succession The Committee also considered a number of changes to the reflecting the priority being given to building talent development composition of the Boards Committees to ensure appropriate and succession options at all levels.
The Committee also devoted time balance and succession potential.
These are detailed on page 32. to reviewing Board development over the short and medium term.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the key themes which had The Group CEO and Group Personnel Director are regular emerged from governance meetings with shareholders in the attendees at Committee meetings which provide a valuable run-up to the AGM and agreed the proposed approach for this opportunity for in-depth and candid discussion in a small years Board evaluation to recommend to the Board.
group on human and governance issues.
Diversity Sir Richard Broadbent Tesco approaches diversity in its broadest sense, recognising Nominations Committee Chairman that successful world-class businesses flourish through embracing intellectual, experiential, geographical and skills diversity as well Nominations Committee responsibilities as other factors such as age, disability, gender, race and sexual The Committees terms of reference are available at orientation.
With regard to gender diversity, which is the focus of www.
Where matters discussed relate to the significant current attention, we accept the spirit and aspirations Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director of the Davies Report, including the representation of women at chairs the meeting.
the highest levels in the organisation.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: There are currently three women on our Board 27%, three women on the Executive Committee 19% and women in Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition senior management positions across the Group account for Identifying, nominating and reviewing candidates for 30% as a whole.
We believe that the focus must remain firmly appointment to the Board on understanding what it takes to develop women and to retain Putting in place plans for succession them in senior positions.
Senior roles are very demanding for all, Reviewing the leadership needs of the organisation, regardless of gender, and we are determined to develop a culture both Executive and Non-executive and an environment where our people can advance whilst having Reviewing the Groups talent planning programmes the time to be good parents, partners and active members of their Reviewing Board succession over the longer term, in order local community.
to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and to ensure progressive refreshment of the Board Our policy is to find, develop and keep a diverse workforce at all Monitoring of the Groups compliance with corporate levels within our Company and we are committed to increasing the governance guidelines percentage of female leaders.
We set a target in September 2011 for women to represent 32% of senior management and 20% of business leaders and Directors.
We are close to our target with 30% of senior managers and we have exceeded our target with 22% of business leaders and Directors being women.
38 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out principles and specific provisions on how a company should be directed and controlled to achieve standards of good corporate governance.
In September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council made changes to the Code which focused on reporting.
The 2012 version of the Code applies to the Company for the year ended 22 February 2014.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
The Board considers that the Company complied in all material respects with the Code for the whole of the year ended 22 February 2014 except with regards to Code provision E. 2.3, as Ken Hanna was unable to attend the AGM due to a long-standing prior engagement.
Also, with regard to the new Code provision C. 3.7, which requires external audit contracts to be put out to tender at least every ten years, the Company has not re-tendered within that period, but the Audit Committee keeps under review the ongoing legislative proposals on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the Competition Commission, now the Competition and Markets Authority, and will implement them in accordance with the suggested timescales.
Further details are provided on page 35.
The notes below are intended to facilitate the assessment of the Companys compliance with the Code for the year ended 22 February 2014 but they should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole.
1 The Boards composition The Board is the custodian of the Companys values and of its long-term vision, and Last year the Board was intentionally managed to a smaller size with proportionally provides strategic direction and guidance for the Company.
The matters reserved to greater Non-executive representation relative to Executive.
the Board for its decisions are detailed in a formal schedule.
Matters which must be considered by the Board include: the Groups strategy: annual budgets: oversight of The Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, experience, independence and risk management processes: changes to the capital structure: and material knowledge of the Board and Committee members and a number of changes were transactions or litigation.
made to the Non-executive representation as detailed on pages 31 and 32.
The Board held six scheduled meetings in the year ended 22 February 2014 and ad During the year the Board comprised of the Non-executive Chairman, two hoc meetings were also arranged to deal with matters between scheduled meetings Executive Directors and eight Non-executive Directors.
All the Non-executive as appropriate.
It is expected that all Directors attend scheduled Board and relevant Directors are considered to be independent under the criteria set out in the Code.
Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting.
Details of Board and Committee membership and attendance can be found on pages 32 and 33, 37 B.
The appointment of new Directors is led by the Nominations Committee.
Further details of the appointments process can be found in the Nominations All Directors are covered by the Groups Directors and Officers Insurance policy.
Committee section on page 38 and biographies of our Directors can be found on pages 26 and 27.
2 A clear division of responsibilities There is a clear delineation between the role of the Chairman and CEO.
3 Time commitments descriptions were agreed by the Board in 2012 and are summarised below: The Board makes a careful assessment of the time commitments required from the Chairman and Non-executive Directors to discharge their roles properly.
This is Chairmans responsibilities: discussed with candidates as part of the recruitment process and a commitment Ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information tothe appropriate time requirements is included in their engagement letter.
Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors and engagement between Executive and Non-executive Directors B.
4 Training and development Ensuring an annual evaluation of the Board is conducted and leading the All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to performance evaluation of the CEO and Non-executive Directors, plus ensuring that their experience, background and particular area of focus, which is designed the Committee Chairmen conduct evaluations of their Committees to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups culture and Building an effective Board operations.
The programme has evolved over time to take into account feedback The induction of new Directors and further training for all Directors as required from new Directors and the development of best practice and incorporates a Communicating effectively with shareholders and other stakeholders and ensuring wide-ranging programme of meetings with the senior management across the the Board develops an understanding of the view of the stakeholders Group, attending results and broker briefings, comprehensive briefing materials and opportunities to visit the Groups operations across the world including Group CEOs responsibilities: spending time in-store and in our distribution network.
The Chairman agrees a Leading the development of the Companys strategic direction and implementing personalised induction plan with each new Director and ensures that it meets the the agreed strategy individual needs of that Director.
Identifying and executing new business opportunities Managing the Groups risk profile and implementing and maintaining an effective The Chairman reviews each Directors development needs as part of the annual framework of internal controls performance evaluation process and puts appropriate arrangements in place for Building and maintaining an effective top management team specific training.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Directors skills and experience Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and key stakeholders as a group against those needed to continue to enable the Board to oversee and support andregularly updating institutional shareholders on the business strategy the Groups diverse operations in the future and identifies anygaps.
This informs the andperformance approach to ongoing refreshment of the Board as well asthe training plan for the current Board.
Training is arranged to help develop theknowledge and skills of the Directors in A.
3 Role of the Chairman a variety of areas relevant to the Groupsbusiness.
All Directors have the opportunity to The Chairman was independent upon his appointment to the Board.
He leads the refresh and increase their knowledge of the Group through visits to Group Operations Board, ensuring its effectiveness while taking account of the interests of the Groups and meeting with senior executives across the business.
various stakeholders, and promoting high standards of corporate governance.
5 Provision of information and support A.
4 Non-executive Directors Board papers are circulated a week before each meeting to give the Directors Patrick Cescau was the Senior Independent Director SID throughout the year and Committee members sufficient time to fully consider the information.
Patrick was selected in July 2010 for the role because of his experience and expertise, both as an Executive and Non-executive Director.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may A biography is available on page 26.
In his role as SID, Patrick Cescau is available to takeindependent professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting assist in resolving shareholder concerns should alternative channels be exhausted.
The SIDs role also includes responsibility for the Chairmans appraisal and succession: and to hold at least one meeting each year with the Non-executive B.
6 Board and committee performance evaluation Directors without the Chairman present.
During the year the Board undertook a thorough review of its performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
Further information can be found The Chairman also has one-to-one and group meetings with the Non-executive on page 32.
Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
7 Re-election of Directors During the year, there were no unresolved concerns about the running of the All Directors were subject to shareholder re-election at the 2013 AGM and this will Company or a proposed action.
Information about the Directors can be found in their biographies on pages 26 and 27.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 Corporate governance report continued C. Accountability Whilst no internal control system can guarantee that losses will not occur, the Board is satisfied that management have remained diligent in their efforts to C. 1 Financial and business reporting ensure that an appropriate level of control remains in place.
The Directors statement of responsibilities for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 can be found on page 64.
Information on C. 3 Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee the Companys business model can be found on pages 10 and 11 and its strategy The Audit Committee supports the Board in its responsibilities in relation to can be found on pages 3 to 7. corporate reporting and risk management and internal controls, and with maintaining a relationship with the Companys auditors.
The Directors confirmation that the business is a going concern can be found on page 63.
The Audit Committees report on pages 33 to 36 sets out a description of the work of the Committee.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control systems The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group has appropriate D. Remuneration risk management and internal controls in place and that they continue to work effectively.
D. 1 Level and elements of remuneration There is a comprehensive process for the review and consideration of risk at Tesco.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 61 explains the level of remuneration received by the Directors and how the Company has aligned the Risk Registers are in place for all businesses and some key Group functions also maintain a specific Risk Register.
The Group also maintain a Group Key Risk remuneration received to corporate and individual performance.
Register which describes key risks faced by the Group and their likelihood and impact, as well as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate them.
D. 2 Development of remuneration policy The development of our remuneration policy and our rationale for the level Group risks are determined by discussion with senior management and are reviewed by the GroupExecutive Committee and then agreed by the Board.
and structure of the remuneration for our senior management is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 61.
In addition to reviewing the Group Risk Register, the Board carries out in-depth reviews of key risk areas eachyear.
E. Relations with shareholders The Company maintains a comprehensive framework of internal controls addressing the key strategic, financial, legal, reputational and operational risks to E. 1 Shareholder engagement the business and the accountability for operating these controls rests with senior We are committed to conducting constructive dialogue with shareholders to ensure management as a first line of defence.
that we understand what is important to them and enable clear communication of our position.
The Chairman, CEO and CFO hold regular meetings with shareholders Colleagues are required to confirm annually that they complied with the Code and update the Board on the outcome of those meetings.
Investor Relations ofBusiness Conduct which sets out individual obligations and responsibilities for keep the Board informed of broker and analyst views and report and present formally anyone working at Tesco.
In addition we carry out a survey each year of a cross-section of shareholders in order to assess shareholder perception of the Company.
Group Finance is responsible for preparing the Groups financial statements.
Last year it took steps to make the processes more robust by developing a key We support greater engagement with institutional shareholders as envisaged financial control framework to describe a mandatory suite of controls across key by the Stewardship Code.
We are also keen to develop engagement with private business processes.
Compliance is monitored by an annual self-assessment.
shareholders through various channels of communication, including the AGM, the Companys website and social media.
A number of key management committees play a role in monitoring compliance with internal controls.
The Group Compliance Committee is responsible for E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM monitoring legal compliance across the Group, including receiving reports from Our 2014 AGM will be held in London on 27 June 2014.
The whole Board is the individual business unit compliance committees.
expected to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions from shareholders present.
The Audit Committee reports each year on its assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controls systems.
Throughout the year the In 2013 Ken Hanna was unable to attend the AGM due to a long-standing prior Committee receives regular reports from the external auditor covering topics such engagement.
All other Directors were present and talked to a number of as quality ofearnings and technical accounting developments.
Internal Audit and shareholders before and after the meeting.
senior management also regularly provide updates to the Committee and any significant breaches of control, together with the appropriate remediation To encourage shareholder participation, we offer electronic proxy voting and arrangements are discussed.
voting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
At our AGM all resolutions are proposed and voted upon individually by shareholders or their The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management proxies.
All votes taken during the AGM are by way of electronic poll.
This follows and internal controls during the year.
To support the Board in their annual assessment, best practice guidelines and allows the Company to count all votes, not just those a summary report is prepared which describes the arrangements that the Board has of shareholders attending the meeting.
put in place for internal control and risk management systems and summarises the key issues or non-compliances arising from those processes.
The Annual Risk Management Process as described in the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 20 to 25 there is a comprehensive process for the review and consideration of risk at Tesco.
Risk Registers are in place for all Business Units and for some key Group Functions, including Group Finance.
These are considered regularly by subsidiary boards to assess their control systems and have all been reviewed at least once in the last year.
The Group Key Risk Register was reviewed by the Executive Committee in January 2014 and the Board in February 2014.
During the reviews all the Group risks were challenged and refreshed.
The Internal Audit Programme a risk-based programme of Internal Audit is conducted annually and the findings of those audits, together with the monitoring of the progress of managements remediation programmes is reviewed by the Board.
Evaluation of the Control Findings from External Audit PwC are not a part of Tescos internal control system.
However, they do form an assessment on the financial control environment as they conduct their audit work and this is another point of reference and information for the Board and senior management to consider on the operation of our controls.
Assessment of Compliance Activities at a Group and Business Unit Level the results of a number of other key compliance activities are also considered during the review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control arrangements.
These include: the outputs from the Group and Business Unit Compliance Committee processes: the returns from the Annual Code of Business Conduct declaration process: the results of the Key Financial Controls Self-Assessment process: the results of store-based compliance reviews of stock, cash and price integrity processes: the results of the Group Technical and Trading Law assessments including ethical audits: the outputs from the Tesco Bank Risk Assurance and Compliance process: reports from the Fraud and Code of Conduct Investigations: and, the results from the Information Security reviews and incidents that occurred in the year.
40 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
