76 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Board of Directors The Board is chaired by Non-Executive Chairman, Frank Meysman.
Inaddition to the Chairman, the Board currently includes two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the committees ofthe Board is chaired by a Non-Executive Director.
3 1 2 Directors Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc and Emerson Electric Co. 1.
Frank Meysman She is also a member of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group, the British Chambers Non-Executive Chairman 62 of Commerce International Advisory Council Appointment: October 2011 and a founder member and trustee of the Committee memberships: PeaceWorks Foundation.
Michael Healy Skills & experience: Frank Meysman was Chief Financial Officer 54 appointed Chairman Designate of the Company on 1 October 2011 and became Chairman on Appointment: July 2012 1 December 2011.
He enjoyed a successful Skills & experience: Michael Healy joined the executive career in dynamic global brand Company on 14 May 2012 and became Chief companies, including Procter & Gamble between Financial Officer on 1 July 2012.
Prior to this, he 8 6 9 1977 and 1986, Douwe Egberts between 1986 was Group Finance Director of Kwik-Fit Group, and 1990 and the Sara Lee Corporation between where he played a key role in implementing a 1990 and 2003 where, from 1997, he was business development plan to reduce risk in a Executive Vice President and a member of the highly levered business.
Michael has considerable Board of Directors.
Since leaving Sara Lee, Frank international experience, across a broad range has been a Non-Executive Director, including of industries and was previously Chief Operating Chairman, of a number of public and private Officer and Finance Director of the HongKong international companies.
In April 2014 he won, listed First Pacific Company Limited and as Chairman, in the Quoted Company Official subsequently Chief Financial Officer of ebookers List category at the Non-Executive Director plc.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Awards 2014.
In March 2014, Michael Other appointments: Chairman of United won the accolade of Finance Director of the Biscuits, Betafence and JBC N. V. He is also an Year at both the Business Finance Awards and Independent Representative Director of Picanol the UK Stock Market Awards.
11 5 7 N. V. Warehouses fide Pauw WDP and Spadel S. A.
Harriet Green obe Independent Non-Executive Director 54 Chief Executive Officer 52 Appointment: April 2010 Appointment: July 2012 Committee memberships: Member of Health, Committee memberships: Member of Health, Safety & Environmental Committee and Safety & Environmental Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Skills & experience: Dawn Airey was appointed Skills & experience: Harriet Green joined the as an Independent Non-Executive Director on Company as Chief Executive Officer on 30 July 12 April 2010.
She has over 29 years experience 2012.
Prior to this, she was Chief Executive Officer inthe media industry and has held senior positions of leading high service technology distributor at some of the UKs leading media companies.
Harriet is a global executive She is currently Senior Vice President of Yahoo!
10 4 with extensive, multi-channel business leadership EMEA.
Until April 2013, she was President of CLTexperience of the worldwide technology and UFA UK Television Limited within the RTL Group industrial markets.
She has driven innovation and and prior to this, she was Chair and Chief Executive strategic transformation through profitable global Officer of Five TV, after joining the company from growth strategies and delivered industry-leading her role as Managing Director, Global Content at results.
Harriet has a real focus on employee ITV plc.
Between 2004 and 2008, she was also engagement, having lived and worked on four aNon-Executive Director of easyJet plc.
continents running businesses for Premier Farnell Other appointments: Chair of the National and volume distributor, Arrow Electronics, Inc.
In recognition of the ongoing Transformation ofThomas Cook she was named Leader of the Year 2013 in the National Business Awards and in May 2014 she was announced as the winner ofthe Veuve Clicquot Business Woman Award.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 77 Board composition Board tenure A A C C B B 1 A.
1 3 years 5 C. Executive Directo rs 2 C. 3 years 3 5.
Annet Aris Skills & experience: Martine Verluyten was 7.
Carl Symon appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director 56 Independent Non-Executive Director and Director on 9 May 2011.
She has significant Senior Independent Director 68 Appointment: July 2014 international financial and IT expertise and Appointment: October 2013 has held a number of senior finance positions Committee memberships: Member of Health, across the telecommunications, electronics Safety & Environmental Committee and Committee memberships: Member of Audit andmaterials sectors.
Committee, Nominations Committee and she was Chief Financial Officer of Umicore, a Remuneration Committee.
Skills & experience: Annet Aris was appointed Brussels-based materials technology group and as an Independent Non-Executive Director on Skills & experience: Carl Symon was appointed from 2000 to 2006 she was Group Controller 1 July 2014.
She is Adjunct Professor of Strategy as an Independent Non-Executive Director on andsubsequently Chief Financial Officer of the at INSEAD, France, a position she has held since 3 October 2013 and became Senior Independent mobile telephone operator Mobistar.
2003, and before that was a partner of McKinsey Director on 20 February 2014.
He has extensive Other appointments: Non-Executive & Company in Germany where, for a number of 2 global business operations and management Director of 3i Group plc, Supervisory Board years, she was the only female partner and one experience, having retired in 2001 from IBM member and chair of the Audit Committee of the leaders of its Transportation and later its after a long career during which he held various of STMicroelectronics N. V. and Independent Media practice.
senior positions, both globally and as Chairman Director of Group Bruxelles Lambert.
She also and Chief Executive Officer of IBM UK.
His other Other appointments: Various non-executive chairs the Audit Committee of the Flemish Region former positions include Non-Executive Director roles in Germany, the Netherlands and Finland, in Belgium.
of Rolls-Royce Group plc, BT Group plc and including: Board member and Chair of the Audit Rexamplc and Chairman of HMV Group plc.
Committee of Kabel Deutschland AG: Board member and Chair of the Nomination and the Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committees of ASR Netherlands Group General Counsel and ofBAE Systems plc.
N. V. : Board member and Vice-Chair of the Human GroupCompany Secretary Resources Committee of Sanoma Group: Board member of Jungheinrich AG: and Board member 8.
Craig Stoehr and member of the Audit and the Compensation Independent Non-Executive Director 52 Group General Counsel 47 Committees of ProSiebenSat1 AG.
Appointment: October 2013 Appointment: April 2013 Committee memberships: Chairman of Skills & experience: Craig Stoehr joined the 6.
Emre Berkin Remuneration Committee, and member of Audit Company in April 2013, as Group General Independent Non-Executive Director 53 Committee and Nominations Committee.
Prior to joining the Company, Craig Appointment: November 2012 served as General Counsel and a member of the Skills & experience: Warren Tucker was Executive Management Committee of Eastgate Committee memberships: Chairman of appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Capital Group, the private equity arm of The 3 Health, Safety & Environmental Committee, Director on 3 October 2013 and became National Commercial Bank of Saudi Arabia.
and member of Nominations Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Prior to joining Eastgate, Craig was a partner at Remuneration Committee.
He has significant Latham & Watkins, a top tier global law firm.
experience in international business and strategic Skills & experience: Emre Berkin was appointed Craig also has a significant amount of business transformations.
He was, from 2003 until as an Independent Non-Executive Director experience, having served as chief executive of May2013, Chief Financial Officer of Cobham plc.
on 1 November 2012 and was appointed as several small sports, media and entertainment He is a chartered accountant and has previously Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental businesses in Europe and the United States.
held senior finance positions at British Airways plc Committee on 20 February 2014.
He has and Cable & Wireless plc.
considerable experience across the technological 11.
Derek Woodward sector and international markets and, being Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary 56 based in Turkey, he has vital knowledge of one of of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Non-Executive the key destinations for millions of our customers.
Appointment: April 2008 Between 1993 and 2006, he held a number of Skills & experience: Derek Woodward joined the senior positions at Microsoft, latterly as Chairman, 9.
Martine Verluyten Company as Group Company Secretary in April Middle East & Africa and Vice-President, Europe, Independent Non-Executive Director 63 2008.
Prior to this, he spent six years as Head of Middle East & Africa, where he led all aspects Secretariat at Centrica plc.
From 1998, he was Appointment: May 2011 ofMicrosoft business in 79 countries.
Company Secretary of Allied Zurich plc, the UK Committee memberships: Chairman Other appointments: Non-Executive Director listed holding company of the Zurich Financial of Audit Committee and member of to a number of companies, including Pegasus Services Group and between 1990 and 1998 he Nominations Committee.
Airlines, Turkeys leading low-cost carrier, listed was Assistant Secretary of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. onthe Istanbul Stock Exchange, and a broad range of technology companies.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
