Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43 Our people and key relationships Our culture and people 1 are central to delivering our Transformation Background 2 The Board and Executive Committee strongly believe that our culture and people are central to the ongoing delivery and sustainability of our Transformation.
It is understood that the success of our Transformation is equally dependent on both the seamless execution of our strategy for profitable growth and the creation of a culture which supports this delivery.
The tone from the top drives the considerable support and focus from leaders at all levels Group-wide as described in the Thomas Cook HR Vision to attract, develop, engage and reward diverse talent, whodeliver results in a fit for purpose organisation reflecting our culture and values.
Outlined in this 3 section are some of the key activities which are driving this cultural shift to successfully execute our Transformation.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 44 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Our people and key relationships continued Communicating and engaging with our employees We continue to share information and collaborate more effectively together as a Group and there are a number of regular forums and channels to ensure effective communication and governance for Our values Our Ways of Working our organisation.
Succeed as one team Kill politics The Thomas Cook Leadership Council TCLC meets every quarter Deliver for our customers Make data-based decisions and each one is connected to our Transformation, to communicate, Engage each other Stick to the decisions we make inspire, share progress and ownership.
Feedback suggests these meetings have been instrumental in engaging the Top 140 leaders Drive for results Engage, empathise and and providing a platform for Groupness and collaboration.
involve employees deep down Act with integrity TCLCs have been held both virtually and face-to-face, the former Take personal responsibility providing the opportunity for leaders to role-model digitisation Present a united front in action.
In addition, the CEO regularly meets with the Executive Give and take feedback Committee and also chairs a monthly strategy review meeting with in front of people, not senior leaders across the Group to discuss progress and plans to deliver behind them all elements of the Transformation.
The CEO also carries out monthly one-to-ones with all direct reports to review progress on objectives, Be cost-conscious-lean ensure alignment on key decisions and offer support.
with ourselves, lavish with our customers In addition to regular forums to engage our Leadership Teams, we Have fun also have a range of channels to communicate with our employees.
Significantly in March 2014, we launched a new social collaborative intranet HeartBeat.
This one system replaces 17 diverse Thomas Cook Intranets it does not represent just a system change but is a symbol of a cultural shift, which marks a new era of collaboration, Values, Ways of Working and CodeofConduct enabling cross functional working as all parts of the Group come together on one system for the first time.
On Heartbeat there Thomas Cook developed and maintains Values, Ways of Working is a range of blogs, videos and cascade materials available and it and a Code of Conduct, which expresses all that we value and believe also provides the opportunity for employees to interact together what we do and who we are.
These principles provide a solid and to share, participate and collaborate together.
In addition to digital unified framework across the Group that guide our behaviours communications such as Transformation eNews, there are also regular and how we conduct our work.
All employees were trained faceprogrammes of face-to-face interactive Town Halls held locally in to-face with the original launch of the Code in 2013.
To ensure the each segment.
Code remains embedded on a sustainable basis, all employees are requested to confirm each year that they have read, understood and Engagement Survey Every Voice 2014 will abide by the Code of Conduct.
All new employees also undergo training as part of their induction.
This is tracked and the status is In September 2014, Thomas Cook conducted its second Groupreviewed by the CEO, the Senior Leadership Team and the Board.
wide Employee Engagement Survey, across 39 countries and in 16 We will look to refresh our Code of Conduct during 2015 to ensure it languages.
75% of employees responded, a 2% increase on last year.
remains relevant for our employees and continues to positively impact Of those who participated, 27% chose to share comments, all of the Thomas Cook culture.
Employees will be refreshed and engaged which were read by the CEO.
through face-to-face training for the re-launch and this will be tracked using online technology.
The engagement score this year increased by 4%, an improvement regarded as significant by the provider TNS, particularly for an We monitor our Ways of Working through interviews and through organisation experiencing Transformation.
In all categories and our Group-wide Employee Engagement Survey.
Feedback from indices of the core index, which measures organisational performance employees on our Code of Conduct has been overwhelmingly positive and the ability to generate sustainable, profitable growth and value throughout the organisation.
for customers, there has been a positive improvement since last year, with the most notable being in the categories of Learning and Development, Innovation and Alignment to our strategy.
This significant improvement in our engagement score is important tothe sustainable future of our Group as many more employees areclear about the Transformation, own and understand their part init and are driving our future success.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 Throughout the organisation, our values are better understood and Performance management our people feel more able to speak up.
Our leadership scores have Alignment of objectives and goals to our Strategy and Transformation 1 improved significantly, with an increase of 4% of managers who are is key to our successful execution.
To deliver this, all employees judged as strong by our teams and a decrease of 5% in those who must understand what is expected of them and how success will be areseen as needing development.
measured, both in terms of what they deliver and the behaviours they demonstrate.
All employees have objectives set and agreed The results will be cascaded throughout the organisation and plans at the beginning of the financial year and these are formally are already in place to address the feedback, including a range of reviewed twice a year and informally during monthly one-to-ones.
activities that will embed important actions from last year, evolve work During 2014, we implemented a high tech, high touch system that we have started and invest in some new projects that will make a MyPAD Performance, Aspirations and Development to capture difference to our people.
employees objectives and development plans, with an aim to give individuals more ownership and accountability for their careers and The Million Hearts programme was created in response to key development.
MyPAD provides a critical link for all employees to our themes that emerged from the survey and is aligned to the Thomas strategic plan, targets and KPIs shared at our Capital markets day in Cook Business System.
This programme is designed to respond to March 2013.
We have implemented MyPAD successfully across the employee feedback and aims to increase levels of engagement Group providing the appropriate training and tools for our leaders to by connecting employees more closely with our customers, our ensure effective review meetings.
This is another example of digitising Transformation and increasing pride in our products and services.
The system will allow us to track The programme has four key components customer, leadership, performance against objectives and rate potential across the Group innovation and digital culture and introduced CEO Awards for allowing the development of robust succession plans.
outstanding customer service awarded on a bi-annual basis.
2 Sharing success stories across the Group ensures the right behaviours Thomas Cook talent and succession development support our values and are embedded and replicated.
All the work streams have delivered against the success criteria set and are Led by our CEO, we continue to invest and strengthen our leadership of strategic significance.
However, to further highlight using two capability, by both attracting and hiring world-class talent into key examples: the purpose of the Great leadership programme was appointments with virtually 100% success rate, and driving a to develop leadership capacity so leaders can actively engage and renewed focus on development and succession.
Our philosophy is to develop employees effectively.
A bespoke leadership programme achieve optimum balance in our organisation, by promoting a third was designed and delivered by trained internal coaching champions from within, keeping a third in current roles and attracting a third from and an external provider specialising in coaching to over 500 leaders outside, bringing rich and valuable experience with them to further since March 2014.
These one-day sessions enable our leaders to learn increase our leadership bench strength.
Developing and maintaining how to engage in powerful development discussions to unlock the strong leadership and succession will be significantly enhanced with potential of our people with our commitment that every employee will our online performance and talent system.
The next phase of our have a credible development discussion by the end of 2014: secondly, Talent Strategy will be to systematically review our functional and Digitising Our Culture is critical if we are to change mind-sets and segment talent and ensure robust succession plans are in place across engage our leaders and employees.
Improvements have been made the Group.
There are plans in place for this beginning in early 2015, through a number of activities to ensure that employees have the following the first online year-end review process.
For example, employees can now book their holidays online and receive staff concessions.
Launch weeks have 3 been held for Lets Go Digital in every segment to raise awareness and we are looking to drive digital know-how through the Thomas Cook Digital Academy.
A reverse mentoring programme has also been created which allows our digital natives to guide our less digital-aware leaders to gain insight and embrace digital.
Segment programmes and education activities have been delivered using an external company that specialises in digitising cultures and organisations.
Engagement action plans are tracked and reviewed monthly in a meeting chaired by the CEO and Every Voice sponsors, who deliver the programme.
We will continue with an Every Voice 2014 survey to track our progress and make the relevant adjustments to the Million Hearts programme in response to the feedback received.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 46 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Our people and key relationships continued Talent development programmes We launched the first Executive development programme in 2013 and following successful evaluation will launch a further programme for our next 50 leaders in the autumn of 2014.
Evaluation of the 2013 programme evidenced behavioural change and increased job performance from the majority of participants, including many role changes and promotions.
In addition participants really valued the opportunity to gain insight on their leadership style and found the process professional and helpful.
To further support our succession planning, the Navigator programme was designed for and targeted at our Emerging Talent population.
This has been successfully piloted during 2013 in the Airlines segment.
We will launch a second stage later this year targeted at our Emerging Talent Group-wide.
This programme will identify and develop a fast track for our high potential talent to form a leadership pipeline for leadership roles Group-wide to further sustain and deliver our Transformation.
Pay for performance We were pleased with the overwhelming support by Shareholders for our Remuneration policy and remuneration report at the February Navigator programme 2014 AGM.
The performance measures communicated within our The proposed Emerging Talent programme aims to deliver a ready group report continue to be fully aligned with our strategic business goals.
oftalented managers in order to feed the senior leadership pipeline.
These performance measures are reflected in the annual bonus and Thishigh potential group will receive targeted leadership development share incentive award programmes that our leaders participate in, tosupport the delivery of sustainable Transformation, embed a culture which ensures management are incentivised to deliver against our ofhigh performance and close identified skills gaps across the business.
stretching strategic goals and that they will be rewarded for their The programme comprises three core areas of learning: success.
We attach a great deal of importance to communicating Authentic Leadership role of the leader, leading others, coaching reward opportunity and performance achievement and provide andmentoring and career planning and development regular performance updates to enable people to monitor progress Business Skills A bespoke experiential learning solution business against the targets.
simulation to run Sunny Co over a three-year financial Business Specific Airline Management: Winning the Customer, Details of our Remuneration Policy and practice can be found on commercial and product and Serving the Customer, operational and pages 94 to 110. customer delivery Recognition Throughout the year, our peer-to-peer recognition scheme From The Heart has been rolling out to the Group and is now accessible to colleagues in over 14 countries and throughout resorts.
FY14 has How inspired, open and honestIfelt.
seen over 35,000 awards made and continues to be at the forefront of recognising those who demonstrate our core values.
The online Cannot wait forthenext module.
platform has evolved during the year and colleagues can use mobile and video technology to make awards achieving a truly high tech, high touch and personal approach.
The scheme has been used to recognise those who have made a significant contribution to our Transformation and helps to share and communicate those successes amongst colleagues throughout the Group.
Thanks for this outstanding opportunity to grow personally andprofessionally.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47 Executive Committee 1 CEO Harriet Green Chief Chief Chief Head Chief Technology General Counsel Chief Financial Officer Operating Officer of AirTravel Officer and MA People Officer Michael Healy Peter Fankhauser Christopher Debus Tomasz Smaczny Craig Stoehr Sandra Campopiano The above reflects the position as of the date of this report 25 November 2014.
On 26 November 2014, Harriet Green stepped down from the business and was replaced as CEO by Peter Fankhauser.
Led by the CEO, our leaders have a new focus on diversity in its Diversity and inclusion broadest sense and this begins with our attraction and selection 2 We believe diversity is an essential part of how we do business and processes.
We are training all our managers through a bespoke meet the needs of our equally diverse customer base.
We operate programme designed for Thomas Cook to help our managers to in 41 countries employing people and working with customers and understand best practice guidelines for the recruitment and selection suppliers from a broad range of backgrounds and cultures.
of diverse talent and to avoid unconscious bias.
We continue to make a number of senior appointments to strengthen We are also launching a Group-wide Diversity and Inclusion policy diversity across a range of measures including skills, experience, and through this and other forums we are educating all our leaders gender and nationality.
We do not tolerate any form of discrimination on the importance of diversity and inclusion to business growth and aim to reflect the diversity of the communities in which we and sustainability.
As part of this work, we will look to extend our operate.
We are committed to treating people fairly and ensuring that already very successful Apprenticeship Scheme.
We have recognised our employment practices are free from any lawful discrimination the value of Apprenticeship schemes for over 20 years in the against any employee on the grounds of sex, gender reassignment, UK and over 35 years in Germany.
In the UK, we already recruit sexual orientation, pregnancy, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or 200250 apprenticeships every year for a two-year programme.
national origin, religion or belief and age disability.
The programme results in intermediate and advanced qualifications in Travel Services and on completion the apprentices are offered a The table below shows the split at different levels within the Sales Consultant position.
Our success rate on the latest programme organisation as at 30 September 2014. was 92%.
In addition to this Scheme, we will also launch a work placement programme in 2015 to enhance our sustainability, which % % Male Female Total Male Female will ensure we offer much needed business contact to our schools 3 and colleges for short-term work experience.
Finally, we are exploring Plc Board 5 4 9 56 44 how to best support the orientation and development of our most Executive Committee 5 2 7 71 29 important front line staff in destination with a Group Destination Senior Management Management Academy.
TCLC and Subsidiaries 275 75 350 79 21 TCLC 134 47 181 74 26 Conclusion Subsidiaries 141 28 169 83 17 Whole company 8,028 18,507 26,535 30 70 During the last year, we have continued to strengthen our foundations and build a culture which will deliver in a sustainable way the Transformation and profitable growth strategy.
This requires having the right people in the right roles focused on the right priorities.
Getting the best people to do their best work requires structure and discipline as described in the Thomas Cook Business System on page34.
We are making great progress and, with our HR Transformation, we will continue to improve the value and service proposition for our employees and our customers.
This work will not only deliver the Transformation but a sustainable and profitable Thomas Cook.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
