78 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Responsibilities of the Board GovernanceCode This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the extent to which The Board is specifically responsible for: the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the year guiding the Groups strategic aims, leading to its approval of the to 30 September 2014.
Throughout the year, the Company fully Groups strategy and its budgetary and business plans: complied with the provisions of the Code, except for Provision B.
3.3, in approval of significant investments and capital expenditure: relation to Executive Directors taking on more than one non-executive approval of annual and half-year results and interim management directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
An explanation in respect of this statements, accounting policies and, subject to Shareholder Provision is given within the Remuneration report on page 100. approval, the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: The Groups business model and strategy approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment The Groups business model and strategy are summarised on pages ofinterim and the recommendation of final dividends: 26 to 41 of this report.
changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue ofany securities: The Board of Directors establishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group and ofinternal control, governance and approval authorities: for ensuring that there is a framework of effective controls, which monitoring executive performance and succession planning: and enables risk to be assessed and managed.
During the year, the Board, reviewing standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, its Committees and management have continued to focus in the safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
areas of business and financial controls, along with risk identification and management.
The CEO, CFO and the Executive Committee have continued to set the tone from the top to drive a strong culture of performance, governance, controls and risk management across the Group.
The highly experienced and dedicated team of risk and audit professionals under the leadership of Lee Bradley, Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, has driven a significant improvement agenda to support management in this important area.
This is complemented by a Group Finance Transformation that is well underway to significantly improve financial controls and the support given by the Finance function to the businesses.
More information is given below and in the Risk management section on pages 48 to51.
In a major initiative to build a more effective organisation at the start ofthe Transformation in 2012, the Thomas Cook Leadership Council see page 84, led by the CEO, redefined the Groups Values, Leadership Behaviours and Ways of Working.
This initiative, together with the focus on risk and controls and our trust commitments to our people and our stakeholders were brought together under a new Code We have continued to set the of Conduct.
The Code of Conduct, which guides the way our people tone from the top to drive a work towards a more sustainable future, has been fully embedded across the Group.
The Board receives regular reports and monitors strong culture of performance, progress in this important area.
Further information on the Code of Conduct and the action being taken to ensure the positive cultural governance, controls and risk changes brought about by the Code are sustainable is given onpages 44 and92.
The Boards governance structure and the roles and activities of its Committees are described on pages 84 to 92 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79 Board meetings and attendance Board activity during the year The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and supplementary meetings are held as and when necessary.
The table below shows the number of scheduled At each Board meeting, the CEO presents a comprehensive update Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director out of the on the Transformation, the strategy and business issues across 1 number convened during the time served by each Director on the the Group and the CFO presents a detailed analysis of the financial Board or relevant Committee during the year.
performance, both at Group and segment level.
Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of Board and Committee Warren Tucker missed one Board meeting and one Audit Committee meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of meeting both on the same date.
Annet Aris missed one Board responsibility.
This gives the Board access to a broader group meeting and one Health, Safety & Environmental Committee of executives and helps the Directors make assessments of the meeting both on the same date.
Both Warren and Annet missed Groups succession plans.
The Board held one of its meetings at the these meetings due to other meetings that they had arranged main offices of the UK business and conducted in-depth reviews prior to joining the Board.
Dawn Airey missed one Board meeting, of that business operations and strategy as well as gaining more one Remuneration Committee meeting and two Health, Safety & presence and visibility amongst management and staff.
The Board Environmental Committee meetings on two separate days due to has plans for the current year to visit the Northern European unavoidable business commitments with her new employment from Business Segment and one of the Groups primary destinations.
Warren, Annet and Dawn gave input on the agenda items to the Chairman prior to those meetings.
The Chairman and At its meetings during the year, the Board each Non-Executive Director have provided assurance to the Board discharged its responsibilities and, in that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can particular, it reviewed: dedicate sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
2 As well as the scheduled meetings, the Directors attended additional The composition Progress and The Groups financial Board and Committee meetings please see the notes below, of the Board on the developments plan, financial mainly in respect of Board appointments and business matters that recommendation in respect of the performance the Chairman and CEO decided should be considered by the Board of the Nominations Transformation andreporting Committee prior to the next scheduled meeting.
Despite these Committee andstrategy meetings being held at relatively short notice, attendance levels foreach of the Directors was high.
Risk and mitigation The revised corporate Key corporate matters, including a governance framework governance Current Directors in office as at 30 September 2013 review of the Boards and delegation of developments risk appetite Health, authority Safety& Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Frank Meysman 6 6 4 4 The effectiveness The Groups tax policy Feedback from Harriet Green 6 6 4 4 4 4 of the Board and its institutional investors Committees Michael Healy 6 6 Dawn Airey 5 6 2 2 2 2 4 5 2 4 Annet Aris 1 2 1 1 1 1 0 1 Emre Berkin 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 4 3 Carl Symon 6 6 2 2 2 2 3 3 A number of training and strategy support presentations were Warren Tucker 5 6 2 2 1 2 3 3 also presented to the Board as detailed in the relevant section Martine Verluyten 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 onpage81.
Notes As well as the meetings detailed above, the Board held a further four meetings and the Nominations Committee held a further two meetings during the year, to discuss the issues referred to above.
Changes to the Committee Chairs and membership is detailed in the relevant Committee sections onpages 84 to 92.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 80 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report continued Former Directors who served during the year Changes to the Board Health, The following individuals were appointed to the Board as Independent Safety& Non-Executive Directors on the dates set alongside their names: Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Carl Symon and Warren Tucker 3 October 2013.
Peter Marks 2 2 2 2 Notes: The search, selection and appointment process for Non-Executive Roger Burnell and Peter Marks retired from the Board on 20 February 2014.
Directors is fully described in the section on the Nominations Committee on pages 87 and 88.
Gender diversity Nationality mix of Board members The following individuals retired from the Board on 20 February 2014: Roger Burnell Independent Non-Executive Director.
B D A Changes to the Committees C A In view of the changes to the membership of Board as detailed above, a number of changes to the Chairs and memberships of the Boards B Committees was agreed during the year.
These are detailed in the relevant Committee sections on pages 84 to 92.
Female 4 B. Belgian 2 Board induction and training C. Dutch 1 D. Turkish 1 An induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual E. Dual Nationality British US 1 Directors is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the Board composition Groups business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
As at 25 November 2014, the Board comprised the Chairman, Such inductions typically include meetings with senior management, two Executive Directors and six Independent Non-Executive visits to the Companys business segments where they receive a Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors can be found thorough briefing on the business and meet with the Management onpages 76 and 77 and on the Companys corporate website Team, and the receipt of presentations on other key business areas atwww.
Individual induction requirements are monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company Secretary, to ensure that new and recently appointed Directors gain The Chairman sufficient knowledge about the Group to enable them to contribute Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year.
to the Boards deliberations as swiftly as possible.
As a number of new Directors have joined the Board in the past two years, there The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and distinct.
There is has been a high level of induction activity.
New Directors also go on a Board-approved Division of Responsibilities, which clearly sets out in a destination visit during which time they meet with in-destination writing their respective responsibilities.
This document can be found staff and are taken through every aspect of the customer experience.
on the Companys corporate website at www.
The induction content and process has evolved significantly as we build on the experience of inducting each new Director.
We are now The Senior Independent Director using that experience for the benefit of our longer-serving Directors, by giving them the opportunity to accompany and participate in any Carl Symon was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on aspect that they feel would further enhance their knowledge and 20 February 2014 in place of Roger Burnell, who retired from the understanding of the Group.
The Senior Independent Director is available to Shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved In response to the 2013 Board evaluation in order to fully support through the normal channels involving the Executive Directors or the new Directors and ensure they gained a high level of knowledge the Chairman.
about the Groups businesses, our strategy and the transformational initiatives, a series of two-hour training and strategy support presentations were given to the Board after each of its meetings.
This programme, which was in addition to the normal business reviews, ensured the new members of the Board had sufficient knowledge to be able to contribute fully to the Boards review and development of strategy at its meeting in September 2014.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 81 Directors conflicts of interest From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act codified the Directors duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has 1 been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other Directors.
The Board has established a set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise conflicts.
As part of that process, it has also agreed that the Nominations Warren Tucker on a site visit to our UK Airline hangar at Manchester Airport.
Committee should review the authorised conflicts every six months, or more frequently if a new potential conflict arises for an existing Director.
The Nominations Committee reviews the interests of candidates prior to making recommendations for the appointment ofnew Directors.
The Nominations Committee and Board applied the above principles and process throughout the year to 30 September 2014 and confirm that these have operated effectively.
Re-appointment of Directors In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election by Shareholders.
At the AGM held in Annet Aris on a site visit to our UK Airline hangar at Manchester Airport.
February 2014, each of the Directors other than Roger Burnell and 2 Peter Marks who retired from the Board at that meeting were submitted for election re-election.
The Board has agreed that the Board training and strategy support presentations, and major business Directors will continue to be subject to annual election in the future.
updates given during the year: Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, transforming the web: subject to annual election by Shareholders and, subject to rigorous customer-led product strategy: review by the Nominations Committee and continued annual strategy background session covering: re-election by Shareholders, can serve up to a maximum of three market developments: such terms.
consumer trends: competitive landscape: Operation of the Board our strengths and assets: IT vision, strategy and roadmap: Throughout the year, a fully encrypted electronic portal system was comprehensive analysis of the UK Transformation and strategy: operated, which enabled Board and Committee papers to be delivered strategic update on Wave 2: and securely to the Directors.
This enabled a faster and more secure strategic update on our customer insights, used for Group-wide distribution of information, accessed using electronic tablets, and marketing and commercial actions.
The CEO kept the Board updated on matters affecting the business between meetings.
The Board has a programme for holding some of its meetings at the 3 business segments, where, in addition to its normal business, the The Group Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, is Board will focus on the strategy and operations of that segment and responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board meet with management and staff.
In March 2014, the Board held on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is its meeting at the main offices of the UK segment where it received a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
presentations on, and met management and staff of, that business.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group The Board has plans to visit the Groups Northern European Business Company Secretary and the Group General Counsel and, through and one of the Groups key destinations during 2015.
At other Board them, have access to independent professional advice in respect meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, the Directors of their duties, at the Companys expense.
The Group Company receive updates and presentations on developments and changes Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees.
to the business, and to the legislative and regulatory environments.
In addition to the benefit of the training given, these programmes also In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted a qualifying increase the exposure of senior talent to the Board and gives the Board third-party indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director presence across the Group.
and the Group Company Secretary.
The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Director independence At its September 2014 Board meeting, as part of its annual review of corporate governance against the Code, the Board considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria specified in the Code and determined that each was independent.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 82 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report continued Our Board evaluation process The Chairman discusses The external facilitator The external facilitator The report of the The action plan and agrees the scope of reviews past Board and prepares a report of findings and the is continually the evaluation with the Committee papers and the findings from the recommendations is monitored by external facilitator.
minutes then conducts review identifying discussed by the Board, the Chairman individual interviews with strengths, challenges which agrees an action with regular each of the Directors and and priorities.
Anumber plan for the year ahead.
update reports other senior executives.
Feedback sessions are are also included for also held.
Board evaluation The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough Board and Committee The report recognised that due to the short tenure of many of evaluation process, leading to action to improve its effectiveness.
the Directors there was opportunity and potential to continue to develop the Boards effectiveness, recognising the huge investment A thorough evaluation of the Board and its Committees was in induction and training to ensure that the Board were fully abreast conducted during the year.
This was facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of ofthe Groups businesses and challenges that lay ahead.
Boardroom Review, under the direction of the Chairman.
The process involved Dr Long conducting individual interviews with each of the The recommendations focused mainly on the further development current Directors other than Annet Aris who joined the Board on of the Boardroom culture and dynamics and reinforced many of the 1 July 2014, Roger Burnell and Peter Marks prior to their retirement existing practices.
The Board has agreed an action plan see page83, from the Board on 20 February 2014, the Chief Operating Officer, the which is being monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group General Counsel and the Group Company Secretary: reviewing Group Company Secretary, and reported regularly to the Board.
past papers and minutes: and attending the Board and Committee Progress will be disclosed in the 2015 Governance report.
The review focused on the Board environment and the work of the Board, and in respect of each of these two areas Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of identified the strengths, challenges and priorities.
The output from the the Senior Independent Director and with input from the Executive evaluation was compiled into a report, which also included a number Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman.
The outputs of recommendations by Dr Long.
Individual feedback sessions were from that evaluation were debated by the Board in the absence then conducted by Dr Long and the report was then presented to of the Chairman and feedback was given to him by the Senior theBoard at its meeting in July 2014 for consideration and debate.
The report recognised the Board as high-calibre and, as the The Companys performance management system applies Transformation progressed, the work of the Board had moved from to management at all levels across the Group.
The individual short-term crisis management to more future-looking and strategic.
performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately bytheChairman and the Remuneration Committee.
Significant progress had been made in the past two years and that wasa reflection of the quality of, and close collaboration with, theSenior Management Team.
Neither Dr Tracy Long nor Boardroom Review carry out any other work for the Group.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 83 Outputs from 2013 evaluation Agreed action in 2013 and delivered in 2013 14 Strengthen the Board with the appointment of additional Three Non-Executive Directors appointed, one of whom was Non-Executive Directors to meet succession requirements.
appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and another who was appointed as the Senior Independent Director following the 1 AGM in February 2014, when Roger Burnell retired from the Board.
Continued recruitment of high-calibre management and Ongoing programme in place with regular reporting to the Board.
ongoing talent management and development being regularly Senior management exposure to the Board as described on pages reported to the Board.
Requirement for an ongoing comprehensive Board training In addition to the new Director induction programme and the regular programme to keep pace with the transformational activities.
business reviews presented to the Board, a series of additional training and strategy support presentations have been delivered tothe Board after each of its meetings throughout the year.
Request for increased market information and intelligence.
Increased information has been provided in the additional training and strategy support presentations that have been delivered to the Board during the year.
Continued review and development of strategy.
Built into the above training and strategy support presentations throughout the year, leading to the review of strategy over the Boards two-day meeting in September 2014.
2 Outputs from 2014 evaluation Agreed action in 2014 Further develop the induction programme for newly The existing induction programme has been further developed appointed Directors to create a common platform of and has been complemented significantly by the comprehensive understanding of the Companys challenges, assets and key programme of additional training and strategy support performance indicators.
presentations that have been delivered throughout the year, leading to the review of strategy at the September 2014 Board meeting.
The Board should continue with its ongoing visits to the Continued business and destinations visits planned for 2015. Business segments to ensure the Board develops and maintains a good knowledge of the businesses, is visible to theoperations and has access to a broad group of executives.
The Board should develop the right balance between challenge The Board has agreed the balance, which has been built into the and support for the Transformation work and clarifying the Board programme for2015.
long-term vision and strategy of the Company.
The aim should be to ensure that all Board members fully understand the ongoing Transformation and the importance of the successful execution of each element, leading to a sustainable future forthe Company.
3 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 84 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report continued The Board and its primary committees The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has a formal structure of delegated Board authority, whereby specified aspects of management and control of the Group have been delegated Chairman, CEO, CFO to the CEO, the Tour Operator and Air Travel Councils and the Boards Committees.
This was reviewed and six Non-Executive and revised during the year.
In addition, the Board has agreed the terms of reference for the Audit, Directors Remuneration, Nominations, Risks and Disclosures, and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees and the Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO.
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Health, Safety & Environmental Audit Committee Chairman, CEO, the Senior Six Independent Committee Three Independent Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors.
CEO and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
three Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Directors who are the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and HSECommittees.
Committee report Committee report Committee report Committee report on page 87 on page 90 on page 89 on page 85 The schedule of matters reserved, the terms of reference of each of the The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Boards Committees and the Division of Responsibilities between the Health Safety & Environmental Committees are circulated to all the Chairman and the CEO, are available on request and on the Companys Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
The powers of the Directors are Majordecisions taken under the Groups Delegation of Authority set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
These are also available arereported to the next Board meeting.
To reflect the new approach to managing the business on a GroupGroup Executive Committee wide basis we significantly strengthened our internal management The CEO formed the Group Executive Committee on 1 November governance arrangements with the creation, in January 2014 of the 2013, comprising the most senior business leaders and function Tour Operator Council and the Air Travel Council.
Like the Thomas Cook Leadership Council, the membership of the Executive Committee is both culturally and gender diverse Tour Operator Council reflecting the wide range of diversity amongst employees across the Group.
The Executive Committee and prior to its formation the CEOs The Tour Operator Council is responsible for providing a streamlined direct reports meets regularly to focus on a range of issues in relation Group-wide forum for strategic, financial, operational and trading to the strategic and operational development and performance of decisions affecting the Tour Operator business within clearly defined the businesses.
limits under the Group delegation and decision-making matrix.
Thomas Cook Leadership Council Air Travel Council The Thomas Cook Leadership Council TCLC, comprises the top 130 The Air Travel Council is responsible for providing a streamlined leaders across the Group.
The TCLC meets four times a year to review Group-wide forum for strategic, financial and operational decisions performance and help develop the Groups strategy.
affecting the Groups airlines within clearly defined limits under theGroup delegation and decision-making matrix.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 85 Role of the Committee Audit Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Companys internal and 1 external auditors.
The Committee focused on the In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee, which continued improvement to the reports its findings to the Board, is authorised to: monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim Groups risk management and management statements, including a review of the significant internal control arrangements.
financial reporting judgements contained in them: review the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: establish and oversee the Companys relationship with its external auditors, including the monitoring of their independence: and monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, the Committee relies on information and support from management 2 across the business.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are Chairman available at www.
com or from the Group Company Martine Verluyten Secretary at the registered office.
Meetings Principal activities during the year Four The main focus of the Audit Committee during the year has been to Other members support and oversee the continued improvement, led by executive Carl Symon management, to the Groups risk management and internal control Warren Tucker arrangements.
In that regard, the Committee welcomed the strengthening of the Enterprise Risk and Audit function and the Directors biographies Finance function with a high-calibre and diverse team of professionals.
on pages 76 and 77 The Committee is supported in its work by the Risk Matters Group, which reports into the Audit Committee, the Risks and Disclosures Meetings also regularly attended by: Committee and the CEO see page 48 for details.
The Committee The Chairman and the other Non-Executive also welcomed the commencement of the Finance Transformation Directors, Harriet Green CEO, Michael Healy CFO, that will improve controls and the support it gives to the Groups Craig Stoehr Group General Counsel, businesses.
The significantly increased activity in respect of risk LeeBradley Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, 3 management, controls and internal audit for both transformational DerekWoodward Group Company Secretary, and business as usual activities has been summarised in Gavin Manson Group Head of Financial Reporting comprehensive reports that have been presented to and reviewed by and  LLP PwC.
the Committee at each of its meetings during the year.
This activity, together with reports from the external auditors, has supported Composition of the Committee the Audit Committee in providing its advice to the Board in respect Roger Burnell and Dawn Airey stepped down of the effectiveness of internal control see section headed Risk from the Committee on 20 February 2014 and management and internal control on page 91 below.
At the end of 17 March 2014 respectively.
Carl Symon and two of its meetings during the year, the Committee and also those Warren Tucker were appointed to the Committee Non-Executive Directors who are not on the Committee met with on 17 March 2014. theDirector of Enterprise Risk and Audit and the external auditors in Martine Verluyten and Warren Tucker are considered by the Board the absence of management.
to have recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 86 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report continued Committee activities Significant issue considered How the issue was addressed In addition to its focus on risk management, controls and internal by the Committee by the Committee audit described opposite, the Committee has discharged its Going Concern: The appropriateness of The Committee considered papers prepared responsibilities during the year and has reviewed: preparing the Group financial statements by management and, taking into account forthe half-year and full year on a going the external auditors review of these papers Financial Governance concern basis.
and their assumptions, concluded that The full and half-year results The Committees own work managements recommendation to prepare including accounting issues plan for the year and a review accounts onagoing concern basis was and judgements andthe of historic activity against appropriate.
interim management the Committees terms The Groups accounting policies and The Committee reviewed a paper prepared by statements issued ofreference application of them: During the year, the management covering the impact of thereview duringtheyear: and the The effectiveness of the Group conducted a comprehensive review on accounting matters across the Group and processes underpinning GroupEnterprise Risk and of its accounting policies and their consistent consideration of any required disclosure.
the preparation of those Auditfunction application across the Group.
This included Havingconsidered the paper the Committee documents The effectiveness of the focus on the treatment of aircraft leases and agreed with managements proposals.
Information in support of the external audit process associated maintenance provisions.
statements in relation to going The Groups compliance Impairment and deferred tax: In view The Committee considered a paper presenting concern, fair balanced and programmes of the Groups losses in recent years, the managements intended approach and having understandable and disclosure Committee considered whether there was a taken input from the auditors, agreed with of information to the auditors need to impair certain asset values, including managements proposals.
The annual work plan for goodwill and the reasonableness of the eachof the internal and Groups recognition of deferred tax assets.
external auditors Separately disclosed items: The Group The Committee considered managements has an established policy of separately presentation of separately disclosed items Within its terms of reference, the Committee is authorised to disclosing items that are either exceptional and in particular items relating to the Groups monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim or detract from the readers understanding Transformation and certain non-cash finance of the underlying performance of the Group.
Having considered the matter, the management statements, including a review of the significant Committee agreed to adopt managements financial reporting judgements contained in them.
At its meeting proposed presentation.
in November 2014, the Committee reviewed a comprehensive Hotel prepayments: The Group advances The Committee considered a paper prepared paper prepared by the Group Head of Financial Reporting, which payments to certain strategic hotel by management covering the current set out the Groups accounting policies and basis of preparation: partners both across multiple years and position in respect of advances to hoteliers within years.
The Group is developing and proposed development of processes gave consideration to a number of key disclosure considerations, the control environment around making and controls.
The Committee endorsed including going concern, separately disclosed items and like-for-like .
analysis: matters arising in the preparation of the Group accounts: Control environment during The Committee considered the broader risks and the impact of new accounting developments.
The Audit Transformation: The Group is currently associated with this Transformation as well as Committee also reviewed a paper prepared by the external auditors, engaged in a fundamental Transformation focusing on the operation of the Groups control encompassing most aspects of its activities.
environment throughout the Transformation which included the significant reporting and accounting matters.
The Transformation requires evolution period.
The Committee considered papers Both papers were reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee.
of several aspects of the Groups financial prepared by management that highlighted The Committee pays particular attention to matters that it considers reporting and control environment and the development requirements and plans to be important by virtue of their impact on the Group results and processes.
During the year, the Group within finance endorsed and a report by commenced a comprehensive finance management on the operation of financial remuneration of senior management, or the level of complexity, transformation project.
andnon-financial controls throughout the year.
judgement or estimation in their application in preparation of the Auditor Rotation: The Group is required The Committee considered a paper prepared Groups financial statements.
The significant issues considered to comply with developing regulatory by management which highlighted the bytheAuditCommittee were as follows: requirements in respect of Auditor rotation.
developing regulatory and governance framework and highlighted the relevant impacton the Group.
PwC have confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company External auditors in a letter addressed to the Directors.
A policy is in place which requires all material non-audit work proposed to be carried out by the external auditors to be pre-authorised by the At its meeting in November 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed the Committee in order to ensure that the provision of non-audit services effectiveness of the external audit process.
This included reviewing does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
comprehensive papers from both management and the external The policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit Committees auditors, which set out the planning and execution of the conduct of terms of reference, is published on the Companys website at the audit.
The Audit Committee then held a meeting with the external www.
An analysis of the fees earned by auditors in the absence of management to discuss further.
Upon the the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services is disclosed in recommendation of the Audit Committee, PwC will be proposed for Note 6 to the financial statements.
PwC were appointed as the sole re-election by Shareholders at the AGM to be held on 23 February auditors to the Group in 2008 and since that date have complied with 2015.
In reaching its decision to propose PwC for re-election, the Audit the partner rotation requirement set out in the Ethical Standards for Committee took into account the effectiveness of the external audit auditors: Paul Cragg, a Partner of PwC, was appointed Senior Statutory process, the length of tenure of PwC as auditors and the objectivity Auditor in February 2013.
PwC were re-appointed as the Companys and independence of the external auditor.
auditors by Shareholders at the AGM held on 20 February 2014.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 87 Role of the Committee Nominations Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or its Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is 1 to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board balance and composition.
The Committee The Board is strengthened ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and by theappointment of three capabilities required for such appointments.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing, at least every six months, or more frequently  if required, the Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board in respect of authorising such matters.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at the registered office.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular: Committee activities 2 Chairman Frank Meysman Meetings Four Other members Emre Berkin, Harriet Green, Carl Symon, WarrenTucker and Martine Verluyten Governance Directors biographies Considered the re-appointment of the Directors before making a recommendation on pages 76 and 77 to the Board regarding their re-election at the 2014 AGM: Conducted a thorough process and made recommendations to the Board toappoint additional Non-Executive Directors to strengthen the Board: Meetings also regularly attended by: Considered Directors potential conflicts of interests The other Non-Executive Directors, DerekWoodward Group Company Secretary andCraigStoehr Group General Counsel.
Composition of the Committee 3 A majority of the members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Roger Burnell and Dawn Airey stepped down from the Committee on 20 February 2014 and 17 March 2014 respectively.
Carl Symon and Warren Tucker joined the Committee on 17 March 2014.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 88 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report continued Board appointments policy Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective One of the key areas of focus in the criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating 2013 Board effectiveness review was the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director, to evaluate the breadth of skills and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Board appointments policy reinforces the Boards principle that appointments are made experience on the Board.
The output on merit, in line with its current and future requirements, and reflect the UK listing and international activity of the Group.
The policy from that evaluation helped shape also recognises the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
the candidate profile for the search for Appointments during the course of the year have been in line with that policy and have reinforced the diverse composition of the Board.
A table illustrating the diversity of the Board is shown on page 80.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies report entitled Women on Boards.
The Boards gender diversity at 44% female is in excess of the Davies report aim of 25%.
The Chairman is a member of the 30% Club, which has the aim of promoting the achievement of30% women on FTSE 100 Boards by the end of 2015.
A copy of the Groups Board appointments policy can be found on our website atwww.
Non-Executive appointments One of the key areas of focus in the 2013 Board effectiveness review was to evaluate the breadth of skills and experience on the Board.
The output from that evaluation see page 83 helped shape the candidate profile for the search for additional Non-Executive Directors.
Egon Zehnder, an international search and selection firm, was appointed to assist the Chairman to identify a range of suitable candidates for review by the Nominations Committee.
As a result of the ongoing process, Carl Symon and Warren Tucker were appointed to the Board on 3 October 2013 and Annet Aris was appointed on 1 July 2014.
The Chairman and the Committee will continue their work in the current year to continue to monitor and develop the Boards succession plans.
Egon Zehnder does not carry out any other work for the Group.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 89 Role of the Committee Health, Safety & Environmental Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
It is also responsible for the review and oversight of 1 compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to health, safety and the environment across the Group.
The Health, Safety & Environmental Committee has overseen a wide The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary range of improvements, including at the registered office.
the appointment of a new Group Principal activities during the year Head of Health, Safety & Security, At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its anew outsourced partner to support responsibilities as listed above and in particular reviewed, monitored and agreed: ourhealth and safety audit and Committee activities quality assurance programmes anda new Head of Government The appointment of a new Customer and employee Group Head of Health injuries and incidents Affairs and Sustainability.
and Safety: Group Airline safety 2 The Groups health and and reports from the safety improvement plan, Group Aviation Safety including the appointment Management Board of a new outsourced The Group aviation drug partner to support our and alcohol policy health and safety audit Government Affairs and quality assurance updates programmes Environment updates The appointment of a Approval of the Groups new Head of Government sustainability report Affairs and Sustainability Transfers and Transport audit Chairman Emre Berkin The Groups sustainability report is available on Meetings www.
com sustainability and contains the Groups Four health and safety and environmental policies, an explanation of how Thomas Cook manages sustainability and progress against targets.
Other members Dawn Airey, Annet Aris and Harriet Green A summary of the approach and the Groups performance 3 in relation to sustainability is contained Directors biographies on pages 67 to 73 on pages 76 and 77 Meetings also regularly attended by: The other Non-Executive Directors, Lee Bradley Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, Peter Welsh Group Head of Health, Safety & Security Steve Solomon Director, Group Aviation Safety, Compliance and Security, Anna Campopiano Director of Government and External Affairs, Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary andCraig Stoehr Group General Counsel.
Composition of the Committee Roger Burnell and Peter Marks stepped down from the Committee on 20 February 2014.
Annet Aris was appointed to the Committee on 1 July 2014.
Emre Berkin was appointed Chair of the Committee in place of Peter Marks on 20 February 2014.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 90 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report continued Principal activities during the year Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee made significant progress implementing best practice as it pursues its Pay for Performance policy.
In this connection, the Chairman and the Chairmanof the Committee conducted extensive consultations with major Shareholders and governance bodies.
A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work carried out by The Board was pleased with the the Remuneration Committee during the year, including an overwhelming Shareholder support explanationofhow it applies the Principles of the Code in respect of Executive Directors remuneration, is included within the given in favour of the resolutions Remuneration report on pages 102 to 110. at the 2014 AGM in respect of Finance & Administration Committee the Groups remuneration policy To facilitate swift and efficient operational management decisions, andpractice.
the Board has established the Finance & Administration Committee, which has delegated authority within clearly identified parameters inrelation to day-to-day financing and administrative matters.
Risks and Disclosures Committee The Board has established a Risks and Disclosures Committee, which is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and controls in respect of the management of inside information and the disclosure of such information to the market in accordance with the Companys obligations under the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Committee also receives inputs from the Risk Matters Group and maintains executive oversight of the Groups key Chairman risks and mitigation strategies.
The Committee meets regularly during Warren Tucker the year to consider the Groups disclosure obligations and to review all results announcements, following certification from individual Meetings executives from across the businesses.
The Committee comprises the Five CEO, who is the Chairman, the CFO, the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, the Group General Counsel and the Group Company Secretary.
Other members Other attendees include senior managers from Group Finance and Dawn Airey, Annet Aris, Emre Berkin Investor Relations.
andCarl Symon Directors biographies Shareholder communication and engagement on pages 76 and 77 The Board promotes open communication with Shareholders.
This is formalised within the framework of an investor relations programme Meetings also regularly attended by: conducted by the CEO, the CFO and the Investor Relations Team.
Frank Meysman Chairman, Harriet Green CEO, The programme included the presentation of preliminary and Martine Verluyten, Roger Burnell Independent NED half-year results, which can be accessed on the Thomas Cook Group and Peter Marks NED, Sandra Campopiano Chief website at www.
com along with financial reports, People Officer, JudithMackenzie Group Head of Reward interim management statements, other market announcements and Performance, Derek Woodward Group Company and trading updates.
During the year, the CEO and CFO have Secretary and Craig Stoehr GroupGeneral Counsel.
conducted a large number of meetings with institutional investors Harriet Green does not attend in respect of matters relating toher remuneration.
and welcome the dialogue that this enables with Shareholders Until 20 February 2014. andpotential Shareholders.
Composition of the Committee Additionally, the Board responds to ad-hoc requests for information All members of the Committee are Independent and all Shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General Non-Executive Directors.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to lodge their votes appointed as a member and Chairman of the by way of proxy and or to attend such meetings in person where Committee on 20 February 2014 to replace they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board including RogerBurnell who retired from the Board the chairs of the Board Committees, vote by way of a poll and meet on that date.
Annet Aris was appointed as a informally with the Directors to discuss any issues they may wish member of the Committee on 1 July 2014. to raise.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 91 The Company makes every effort to ascertain investor perceptions Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of ofthe Company and regular reports of investor and analyst feedback failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, are provided to the Board.
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman Review of system of internal control of the Remuneration Committee had ongoing dialogue with 1 During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, Shareholders in respect of Executive remuneration matters.
has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system Between September and November 2013, they conducted a of internal control.
There is an ongoing process for the identification wide-scale engagement with a large number of the Companys and evaluation of risk management and internal control processes, major institutional Shareholders representing over 50% of the which has been in place, and significantly improved, throughout the Companys shares in issue and governance bodies to hear their year and remains in place up to the date of the financial statements.
views on the Groups proposed performance targets for both the This includes the process by which management prepares 2012 and then forthcoming 2013 awards to the Executive Directors consolidated accounts.
The work conducted by management is under the Performance Share Plan and proposed amendments to complemented, supported and challenged by the controls assurance theCompanys Executive Remuneration Policy, presented in line work carried out independently by the external auditors, PwC, and with the new Directors Remuneration Regulations.
These meetings the Group Enterprise Risk and Audit function.
Regular reports on were both supportive and constructive and the Board and the control issues are presented to the Audit Committee by the Director Remuneration Committee were briefed on the feedback from the of Enterprise Risk and Audit.
The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness above discussions.
The views expressed by Shareholders were taken of the system of internal control, can confirm that necessary actions into account when finalising executive remuneration arrangements.
have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or The Board were pleased with the overwhelming Shareholder support weaknesses identified from that review.
given in favour of the resolutions at the 2014 AGM in respect of the Groups remuneration policy and practice.
Going concern 2 In line with the authority given at its 2008 AGM, the Company uses After making appropriate enquiries and taking into account the its website and email as the primary means of communication with matters set out in the Risk management section on pages 48 and its Shareholders.
This arrangement provides significant benefits for 51, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company Shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational reduced environmental impact and cost.
Shareholders may still opt existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to to receive their communications in a paper format.
The Companys adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
corporate website contains information for Shareholders, including share price information and news releases.
It can be found at Internal control and risk management in relation to the www.
financial reporting process The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of the Risk management and internal control preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial reports.
During the year, there has been continued progress made in the area This process includes: of risk management and internal control.
This has been led with a the involvement of qualified, professional employees with an distinct tone from the top by the CEO and the Executive Committee, appropriate level of experience both in Group Finance and with the support of the Board and the Audit Committee.
A highly throughout the business : experienced and dedicated team of risk and audit professionals under formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment managing the leadership of Lee Bradley, the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, directors and finance directors: has driven a significant improvement agenda to support management 3 comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from in this important area.
Furthermore, high-calibre professionals have keyinternal Group functions: also been recruited into the Group and Segment Finance Teams a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information toimprove cash management, forecasting and financial controls, to theexternal auditors.
Engagement of a professional and andto deliver the Finance Transformation.
experienced firm of external auditors: oversight by the Groups Audit Committee, involving amongst The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an other duties : effective system of internal control and risk management that is a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the Groups have been discussed by management: activities and complies with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on the review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including: UK Corporate Governance Code the Turnbull Guidance and has the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting approved the framework and the standards implemented.
policies and practices during the year: significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: The Boards risk appetite and the Groups approach to risk management ismorefully described in the Risk management section the going concern assumption: and on pages 48 to 51 the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior to endorsement by the Board.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 92 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Corporate governance report continued The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a Code of Conduct process comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report Drafted through engagement with stakeholders: Group-wide &Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report &Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess theCompanys performance, business model and strategy.
Thorough training programme for all employees Code of Conduct The Groups Code of Conduct, which was launched in 2013, sets out the Groups Values, Leadership behaviours and Ways of Working Inclusion in Group-wide survey and performance reviews how we expect our employees to conduct themselves in their toconfirm awareness everyday working life.
It covers areas such as: behaviour towards our customers and our people: health and safety: reputation management: sustainable operation: supplier relationships: antibribery: conflicts of interest: competition law: risk management and Ongoing monitoring controls: fraud, theft and false accounting: IT security: share dealing and our prohibition of political donations.
The Code also includes guidance to employees about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come to their attention and the alternative ways of raising such issues in escalating order line management, HR, Further training in 2015 the ask-Harriet email facility, which promotes feedback from all employees, and the Trustline see below.
Whistleblowing The Code of Conduct was issued to all employees in paper copy and As mentioned above, the Code includes guidance to employees is also available on the Groups intranet and website.
In addition, the about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come Group Company Secretary is available for advice on any matter which to their attention and also the alternative ways of raising such may give rise to cause for concern.
This included a thorough re-launch of the independently run whistleblowing helpline re-named the Trustline.
Details of the Trustline The Code of Conduct is the cornerstone of the Groups cultural are published in the Code of Conduct booklet and also on the Groups Transformation and to ensure it became fully embedded across intranet site.
Also included in the Code of Conduct were details of the the Group, every employee participated in a thorough training ask-Harriet email facility, which allows every employee across the programme during 2013.
To ensure the progress made is fully Group to raise issues or make suggestions for improvement directly sustainable and the Code remains embedded across the organisation, with the CEO.
Significant issues brought to managements attention there is a robust process to ensure that all new employees receive through the Trustline or ask-Harriet email facility are reported to the training as part of their induction programme: and the Code will be Audit Committee.
refreshed in 2015 and further training will be given to all employees.
In view of its importance to the Group, training is measured through local HR Departments and every employee has to confirm they have received their training and understand the Code in their annual and half-year performance and development reviews.
The Board receives regular reports and monitors progress in this important area.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 93 Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of this report, Statement of Directors responsibilities in whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 76 and 77, respect of the Annual Report, the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: remuneration report and the financial the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 1 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law the Strategic and Directors report contained on pages 14 to 73 requiresthe Directors to prepare financial statements for each includes a fair review of the development and performance of the financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the business and the position of the Group, together with a description Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law Fair, balanced and understandable togive a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report & andthe Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Companys position and performance, business model and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: strategy.
In making this confirmation, the Directors took into account make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable their knowledge of the business, which is kept up to date with and prudent: and regular reports, updates and business reviews circulated prior to and state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by discussed at each Board meeting, and supplemented by a variety the European Union.
of written reports, verbal updates and presentations including the training and strategy support presentations detailed on page 81 2 The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above given at Board and Committee meetings as well as a regular flow of requirements in preparing the financial statements.
information about the business between meetings.
The Directors then took into account the thorough preparation and verification The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records process in respect of the Annual Report & Accounts, which included that show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with sufficient time for the Directors to review the Annual Report & reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Accounts and to feed in their comments to management before and the Group, and for ensuring that the financial statements and the approving the document.
Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Disclosure of information to auditors Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Directors report confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is forthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that he she has taken all steps that he she ought to The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the have taken as a Director to make him her aware of any relevant audit Companys website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ ofthat information.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3 Share capital and related disclosures Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, including the Companys major Shareholders are given in the Other disclosures section on pages 111 to 113.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
