SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the appointment of Coline McConville with effect from Election of Directors 1 February 2015.
A rigorous selection process precedes the appointment of Finally, and as a result of John Coleman approaching all directors by the Board, and their recommendation by the retirement from the Board after nine years service, the Nominations Committee.
Nominations Committee recommended and the Board The performance of each director, the Board and each agreed that Andrew Simon be appointed as Senior Committee is reviewed annually as part of the Board Independent Director with effect from August 2014. evaluation process and I am pleased to confirm that the The individuals involved did not participate in discussions Board recommends the election and re-election of all NOMINATIONS about their appointments.
directors who are standing for election and re-election at the Groups 2015 AGM.
2015 Objectives Activites in 2014 COMMITTEE REPORT As previously outlined, the Committees focus in 2015 will be on reviewing the Companys talent pipeline of future The Committee operates under formal terms of reference FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 senior management and leaders.
The Committee will and met four times during the year.
The principal matters particularly focus on the depth of this talent below the discussed at the meetings were: Executive Committee.
Monitoring top management succession completed in January 2014 to confirm that the new leadership Board Diversity Dear Fellow Shareholder transition has been both seamless and effective It is the Groups firm belief that having executives and I hope that the following introductory remarks will give you a Pete Redfern and John Rogers to the Board.
Additionally, in Planning and executing the non-executive succession non-executives on the Board that are diverse in age, good overview of the Committees activities in 2014.
December 2014, the Group was pleased to announce the to John Coleman as Senior Independent Director, and experience, nationality or gender, provides us with different appointment of Coline McConville to the Board.
Andrew Simon as Chairman of the Remuneration perspectives.
This does not just make good commercial and Over the past two or three years, the Boards Nomination Committee business sense, but it is good for the Groups colleagues and Committee has met as often as the Audit and Remuneration For the next twelve months, the Committees main task its customers as well.
Where necessary, and although not recorded will be to review the depth of management and succession Securing the appointments of Pete Redfern CEO as separate meetings, there have also been Nominations below the Executive Committee, to ensure the Group has of Taylor Wimpey plc and John Rogers CFO of In addition, the Group has a clear preference for Committee updates at the end of the regular Board meetings.
a strong pipeline of future management and leadership J Sainsbury PLC non-executives of whatever background, who have throughout the Group.
demonstrated success as CFOs or CEOs.
This frequency has been important because of the need to Securing the agreement of Coline McConville to join the meticulously plan the CEO and CFO executive succession Role Board in February 2015 As a result, job specifications, search processes and process: and also, as indicated in my last years report, to selection criteria are focused on appointing candidates that plan for non-executive rotation and establish a Board that is The Committees principal responsibility is to ensure that Examining the performance of the Committee and not only meet the criteria for the role, but who could also fully appropriate for the Companys long term future.
the Board comprises individuals with the most appropriate reviewing its terms of reference offer different perspectives.
Therefore, diversity, including balance of experience, skills and knowledge to help develop gender diversity, was actively considered during the year, and I am pleased to report that these processes are and support the Company strategy.
In order to achieve Board Succession this will continue to be reflected in future activities.
this, the Committee requires procedures to be in place that As mentioned in my introductory note above, a key task enable the nomination, selection and succession of the The Board is committed to appointing the best people In his first full year as CEO, John Carter has proved a very facing the Committee during 2014 was the appointment most capable directors and senior executives.
and ensuring all employees are able to develop their effective and energetic leader, and has forged a strong and of three new non-executive directors, following the careers within the Group and therefore do not believe it is complementary working relationship with Tony Buffin, the The Committee is also responsible for considering, and resignation and retirement of John Coleman and the appropriate to set targets in this area.
making recommendations to the Board on succession impending retirement in October 2015 of Andrew Simon.
planning for directors and other senior executives: in After considering alternatives, the Committee appointed At the most senior director manager level the Group has On the non-executive front, planning for the retirement of this sense the Nominations Committee undertakes a Russell Reynolds, MWM and Odgers Berndtson as external two female board directors 22%.
The Group currently also John Coleman at the end of 2014, and Andrew Simons broader role.
I confirm that each of has two women on its operating executive 16.6%.
Further impending retirement at the end of 2015 is now complete.
these three firms have no other relationship with the details of the Groups workforce diversity are set out in the The Nominations Committee comprises all the In last years report, I stated that we were very clear about Company and have signed up to the voluntary code of Equal Opportunities, Human Rights and Diversity section of Non-executive Directors and is chaired by me other than the Board skills we seek, operating as it does in fast-moving, conduct covering board appointments, following the the Capturing the Way Things are Done Round Here section when it is dealing with matters in relation to me or the highly competitive trading and retailing businesses.
on pages 64 to 69. chairmanship of the Company.
The Chief Executive, stated, the Group believes its Board is best served by Chief Financial Officer and Group HR Director are invited The brief for the recruitment of new non-executive I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer individuals who have demonstrated a track record of success to attend when appropriate.
directors was to attract proven, successful candidates with any questions about the work of the Committee.
in leading such businesses, as either CEOs or CFOs.
In both current and past experience as CEOs or CFOs of recent months therefore, it has been pleased to welcome businesses operating in competitive, fast-moving sectors.
Robert Walker The Group was delighted to announce in September the Chairman appointment of Pete Redfern, CEO of Taylor Wimpey plc 2 March 2015 and John Rogers, CFO of J Sainsbury plc and in December 118 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 119
