SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 I would like to make the following points by way of UK Corporate Governance Code introduction before describing the Groups approach in more detail.
I hope you will find them helpful: The following pages T he Board considers that John Carter in his first full year as Chief Executive has seamlessly succeeded Geoff Cooper, explain how the Company and has established an excellent working relationship with Tony Buffin, who joined the Company in April 2013 has applied the principles Ha ving successfully completed the recruitment of three and provisions of the 2012 The following pages summarise the Companys governance The Board has approved a written statement of the division non-executives, the Group now has a stable and superbly practices by reference to the five main sections of the Code.
of key responsibilities between the Chairman, and the Chief qualified Board to monitor, challenge and support the UK Corporate Governance Executive.
This is reviewed annually and minor changes evolution of the Companys strategy 1.
The Board, in 2014, also approved a Code the Code statement of the role of the Senior Independent Director.
Given the r otation in non-executives in 2014, the Board At 31 December 2014 the Board was made up of six delayed, for a year, the initiative of having individual The Company maintains directors & officers insurance non-executive directors including myself as Chairman and during 2014. non-executives mentoring one of the Groups businesses in respect of the risk of claims against directors.
This is two executive directors.
A further non-executive director or central functions and we plan to reintroduce this later reviewed annually and has been increased in 2014.
Coline McConville was appointed and took up her role on in 2015 1 February 2015.
Andrew Simon is the Senior Independent All directors have direct access to the Company Secretary Director.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved An external evaluation of the Boar ds performance was General Counsel and may take independent professional to it, which is reviewed annually.
Revisions were made in conducted by Egon Zehnder, one of the UKs foremost advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
December 2014 to: providers of such services, and the results are summarised on page 91 I agree the agenda for board meetings in conjunction with Raise to 10m the level of capital expenditur e requiring the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary General Board approval T he Board continues to welcome extensive and Counsel.
Agendas are based upon an annual plan, but also regular shareholder engagement on both business and include matters of particular interest or concern to the Requir e the acquisition of any business or company whose governance matters Board at any particular time.
business is not within the ordinary course for the Group to be approved by the Board On g overnance issues, the Group always aims to engage I monitor the information provided to the Board to ensure it early and with as wide a range of shareholders as possible, Remo five subject to safeguarding provisos change of is sufficient, timely and clear.
contacting at least the top 20 investors.
In 2014, and control provisions in certain contracts with public bodies despite follow-up reminders, the Board was disappointed I generally contact all the Non-executive Directors in from the requirement to obtain Board approval that fewer shareholders chose to engage, on the basis advance of Board meetings, to suggest the key issues for that they had no governance concerns.
In particular I discuss the meeting papers with Remo five parent company guarantees of 50,000 and is that Group would always prefer to have a regular any director who is unable to attend, to obtain that directors under from the requirement to obtain Board approval annual discussion views.
At the meetings, as Chairman, I ensure that each The Boards key responsibilities are for overall Group director is able to make an effective contribution within an T he Board has decided not to adopt voluntary reporting strategy, policy on corporate governance, approval atmosphere of transparency and constructive debate.
against the 2014 edition of the Code which applies to of expansion plans and major capital expenditure, financial periods starting on or after 1 October 2014 consideration of significant financial and operational matters Between Board meetings I maintain frequent direct contact and the Groups exposure to key risks.
It also reviews the with the Executive Directors and keep the Non-executive strategy of the individual businesses, the annual budget and Directors informed of material developments.
I held progress towards the achievement of the budget and long a number of meetings during the year with all the term objectives.
Legislative, environmental, health and safety Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors and employment issues are also considered.
88 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 89 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE future non-executives, is to attract individuals who have had legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance Board Meetings individual visits to operational sites.
In addition to the regular significant Profit and Loss experience as CFOs or CEOs: developments, and briefings on the key risks facing the board meetings, key financial information is circulated to the The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2014.
Three additional expertise in areas relevant to the Groups businesses Company, including those identified in the Statement of Directors outside of meetings.
meetings considered the Groups long term strategy.
The Group supports the principles of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 58 to 63.
Six meetings included either visits to parts of the Groups The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Davies Review and the need for a diverse board, although it Evaluation of Board Performance operations or presentations by senior executives on their each director in whole or in part during the year is detailed does not intend to commit to specific quotas.
The Group uses areas of responsibility.
Non-executive directors also made in the table below.
search firms who abide by the voluntary code of conduct Each year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its which followed the Davies Review.
The Board diversity policy is performance and the performance of its Committees and PLC Board No.
summarised in the Nominations Committee Report.
The Boards policy is to engage an external facilitator to assist this process every three years.
Number of meetings 9 4 4 4 4 Non-executive directors are appointed for a period until In 2007, 2011 and in 2014, the Boards performance was Attendances: the third AGM following election, at the end of which the reviewed externally by Egon Zehnder.
The Board had no appointment may be renewed by mutual agreement.
R. Anderson 9 4 - 4 4 conflict of interest with Egon Zehnder, who has conducted in It is the Boards policy that non-executive directors should excess of 400 external reviews, significantly more than most 4 A. D. Buffin 9 - - - - generally serve for six years two three-year terms and that other comparable firms.
4 any term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous review.
J. P. Carter 9 - - - 4 This review takes into account the need for progressive In 2013, the Board carried out an internal review of its 1 J. Coleman 8 3 3 4 - refreshing of the Board, maintenance of a balance of skills performance.
Reviewing the actions identified at that time, 2 G. I. Cooper - - - - - and experience and the particular requirements of the the Board has performed well on all items.
Non-executive 3 Company at the time of the possible extension.
succession has been comprehensively managed.
The success P. Redfern 1 - 1 - - of the 2013 Capital Markets day presentation has been built C. C. B. Rogers 8 3 - 3 - Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, upon.
Further streamlining of the financial reporting for the 3 but each has received a letter of appointment.
These J. Rogers 1 - 1 - - Board was completed in May 2014.
The Board devoted more appointments expire on the following dates, and the length time to management succession and development A. H. Simon 9 - 4 4 4 of service at that date is also shown.
Finally, the Board continued to 4 R. M. Walker 9 - 4 4 4 involve appropriate and challenging external expertise in 1 2 3 4 Ruth Anderson May 2018 6 years 7 months Retired 31 October 2014 Retired 6 March 2014 Appointed 1 November 2014 Although not a member of the Audit Committee has attended four its discussions.
meetings during the year Coline McConville May 2018 3 years 4 months Turning to 2014, the Board once again conducted an external Board Committees 2.
Effectiveness Peter Redfern May 2018 3 years 7 months performance evaluation.
This entailed each director, the The Group has five Board Committees: the Audit Christopher Rogers August 2016 3 years Company Secretary and the Executive Committee members Save in respect of Andrew Simon who reached the ninth Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations completing a questionnaire about the performance of the anniversary of his appointment on 20 February 2015 none John Rogers May 2018 3 years 7 months Committee, the Stay Safe Committee and the Executive Board and its Committees, followed by individual interviews of the specific circumstances set out in Code provision Andrew Simon October 2015 9 years 7 months Committee, which operate within defined terms of reference, with Egon Zehnder.
Egon Zehnder presented its report to the B.
Nevertheless, the Board is satisfied that all the which are reviewed annually.
Summaries of these are Board in December 2014.
Additionally, the Non-executive Non-executive Directors are independent.
Robert Walker September 2015 6 years available on the Companys website or may be obtained Directors led by the Senior Independent Director conducted a Given the significant changes to Board composition from the Company Secretary.
The minutes of committee review of my own performance.
The letters of appointment will be available for inspection at which have taken place over the past two years and the meetings are circulated to all the Directors.
the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Companys ambitions for growth presented to investors at As a result, the Board determined that it had effectively The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive the 2013 Capital Markets day the issue of orderly Board managed the achievement of the Companys objectives During 2014 Pete Redfern and John Rogers joined the Board and its members are listed on page 86.
Other executives succession is of critical importance.
A period of transition during the year, that the mix of knowledge and skills among and on 1 February 2015 Coline McConville also joined.
are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific and handover of between nine and twelve months between Board members was appropriate, and that the Board Pete is CEO at Taylor Wimpey plc, John is Group CFO at matters.
The main purpose of this Committee is to assist Andrew and those new directors who will be assuming worked cohesively.
J Sainsbury plc and Coline is an experienced non-executive the Executive Directors in the performance of their duties in membership and chairmanship of Committees in his stead director.
In view of the number of changes that there have For 2015, the following areas for focus, among others, relation in particular to: is considered to be necessary and in the best interests of been recently, and in order to secure continuity during were identified: investors and accordingly the Board has decided to extend this period of change, Andrew Simons appointment was Str ategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets Andrews term of office until 31 October 2015. extended beyond his normal retirement date of February Honing Boar d processes 2015.
This extension will be until 31 October 2015.
T he monitoring of operational and financial performance Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on Medium-term boar d succession planning the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
I chair Induction T he assessment and control of risk In 2015, an internal review of the Boards performance will that Committee and all the other members are independent be conducted.
The Group has an induction process for new directors, which non-executive directors.
A report of the Committees work in T he prioritisation and allocation of resources is facilitated by the Company Secretary General Counsel.
Re-election In particular, this includes a programme of meetings On occasions during 2014, sub-committees of the Executive Appointments of Non-executive Directors with senior management in both operations and central At the AGM, all directors will submit themselves for Committee met to carry out more detailed reviews of functions, and visits to a range of branches and stores.
election or re-election as appropriate.
As a result of the particular areas.
The Groups policy is to recruit people of the highest calibre, I ensure that all directors receive appropriate training on Board evaluation exercise, as Chairman I am satisfied that with a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for appointment and then subsequently as required, taking into each director continues to show the necessary level of the Companys business.
The Groups businesses both account the need to update their skills and their knowledge commitment to the Group, and has sufficient time available trade and retail, are trading businesses.
Given the highly of the Companys business.
Non-executive directors are to fulfil his or her duties, to justify their election or competitive and fast moving nature of the markets in which also regularly provided with information on forthcoming re-election.
The other directors, in a process led by the the Group operates, the Groups preference in seeking 90 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 91 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Senior Independent Director, have reached a similar view The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control turnover within the Companys Non-executive Directors and voting has taken place, and these numbers are subsequently with regard to my own re-election.
is delegated to Executive Directors and senior management, it has taken time to re-populate the Committee to meet the published on the Companys website.
but the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed Code requirements.
The Board believes that there is presently a blend of skills by the Audit Committee and the Board in a process that The Boards Fair, Balanced and and experience among the Non-executive Directors which is accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
Relations with Shareholders Understandable Declaration appropriate for the Group.
The skills required for the Board include experience in the merchanting and retail sectors, Risk Assessment The Company encourages two-way communication with At the board meeting during which the Groups results for capital project and M&A evaluation, as well as the essential both its institutional and private investors and responds the year were presented by the Chief Executive and the It is the responsibility of the Board to establish the risk understanding of financial controls and accounting.
An promptly to all enquiries received.
Each year, the Company Chief Financial Officer, the Board also considered whether framework within which the Group operates.
The Board and understanding of information technology is increasingly reviews its strategy for engaging with shareholders.
In 2014, the annual report and accounts, when taken as a whole, the Executive Committee review the risk register twice and important.
the Executive Directors and I, either separately or together, present a fair, balanced and understandable overview of the the risk appetite once in each year.
Members of the Audit attended a large number of meetings with analysts, and with Group and its performance.
After: Committee also receive reports of Internal Audit reviews.
If appropriate, these reports include recommendations Hearing from the Executive Directors for improvement in controls or for the management A review of the performance of the Groups businesses In November 2014 the Group held an Operational Briefing day, Receiving a r eport from the Chairman of the Audit of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk management and the financial position of the Group is included in the which was attended by more than 50 investors and analysts Committee on that Committees meeting to discuss processes into the Groups operations, to extend awareness Strategic Report on pages 38 to 57.
The Board uses it as well as a number of representatives from the Groups the preparation and content of the year-end financial of the importance of risk management and to ensure to present a full assessment of the Groups position and banks.
The Executive Directors together with members of the statements and the audit conducted upon them that recommended improvements are implemented, are prospects, its business model, and its strategy for delivering Executive Committee delivered an update on progress against regularly reviewed and refreshed.
Senior executives and that model.
The directors responsibilities for the financial the strategy which was presented at the Capital Markets day Discussing the contents of the Ann ual Report and Accounts managers are asked, each year, to confirm the adequacy statements is described on page 124. in 2013.
A copy of the presentation is available in the investor Recognising that the Auditors have stated in their audit of internal controls in their areas of responsibility, identify section of the Groups website at www.
report on page 128: Going Concern any control weaknesses, and to confirm the accuracy and The Chairman and the Executive Directors report to the Board completeness of information given to the directors and to on any meetings with shareholders or analysts.
In addition, After reviewing the Groups forecasts and risk assessments We are required to consider whether we have identified the external auditors.
written reports about the Company by analysts or brokers are and making other enquiries, the Directors have formed a any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired circulated to all directors.
judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, during the audit and the directors statement that In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness The Group makes the Senior Independent Director available the Company have adequate resources to continue in understandable and whether the annual report of the system of internal control and risk management, as a direct contact for investors and shareholders, if they operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this appropriately discloses those matters that we during the year and up until the date of approval of this wish.
However, no meetings have in fact taken place reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in communicated to the Audit Committee which we Annual Report.
between the Senior Independent Director and investors due preparing the financial statements.
consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that to an absence of appetite for such meetings among the Audit Committee and Auditors we have not identified any such inconsistencies or Companys investors, and accordingly the Company has not In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered: misleading statements.
The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting complied with provision E. 1.1 of the Code in this respect.
As T he Groups cash flow forecasts and revenue projections of four independent non-executive directors.
Its key regards governance issues, as Chairman I aim to meet with The Board concluded that the annual report and accounts responsibilities and a description of its work in 2014 are major shareholders shortly after the previous years Annual are fair, balanced and understandable and accordingly the Reasonab ly possible changes in trading performance contained in its report, which is set out on pages 94 to 97.
These meetings are deliberately timed Directors declaration to that effect can be found in the early in the year so that the Board can consider and respond T he committed facilities available to the Group and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 124.
Remuneration to shareholder concerns well in advance of the following covenants thereon years annual report and shareholder meeting.
I normally Corporate Governance Compliance The Board has established a Remuneration Committee T he Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash contact the Groups 20 largest shareholders to ensure the consisting of the Chairman and three independent Statement flow management widest consultation possible and particularly, given market non-executive directors.
Its responsibilities include volatility, to ensure that the views of any shareholder I am pleased to report that the Board considers that the remuneration policy, a review of the performance of executive T he Group managements ability to successfully manage which substantially increases its stake during the year Company has complied throughout the year ended directors prior to determining their remuneration and the the principal risks and uncertainties outlined on have been fully taken into account.
In 2014, and despite 31 December 2014 with the provisions set out in the Code approval of incentive arrangements, including performance pages 58 to 63 during periods of uncertain economic follow-up reminders, the Board was disappointed that fewer save that for the reasons described on pages 92 and 93: criteria.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors outlook and challenging macro-economic conditions shareholders chose to engage, on the basis that they had no is determined by the Board as a whole, except that the T he Remuneration Committee comprised only two governance concerns.
The Boards view is that Group would Internal Control Remuneration Committee makes a recommendation in independent non-executive directors plus the Chairman always prefer to have a regular annual discussion.
respect of the Chairmans fee.
No director plays a part in the until the Committee membership was supplemented by The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal discussion about his or her own remuneration.
As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, during the appointment of John Rogers and Pete Redfern control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In the design the year, the Group published its interim results on its of the system of internal control, consideration has been The Senior Independent Director has not proactively met The Committees key responsibilities and a description of its website and issued two interim management statements.
given to the significant risks to the business, the probability with Investors: but has made himself fully available for work in 2014 are contained in its report, which is set out on Shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost meetings should investors request them pages 98 to 117. of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors are effective means of controlling them.
The threat posed by available for questions and a short business presentation those risks, and any perceived change in that threat, is The constitution of the Committee did not comply with takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a reviewed half yearly by both the Executive Committee and provision D. 2.1 of the Code from the beginning of the year Robert Walker separate resolution.
I announce the numbers of proxy votes the Board.
The system manages rather than eliminates risk until the appointment of Pete Redfern and John Rogers.
As Chairman for and against each resolution at the meeting, after the and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, described elsewhere there has been period of significant 2 March 2015 assurance against material misstatement or loss.
92 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 93
