SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In addition, there are a number of standing agenda items I am satisfied that the Committee received sufficient, where at each meeting the Committee reviews: reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Internal audit and risk r eports Whistleb lowing, fraud and bribery Significant Issues Relating to the Non-audit ser vices and fees Financial Statements REPORT The table below sets out the key judgement areas associated Pr ogress on implementing recommendations arising from FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 with the Groups financial statements for the year-ended internal and external audit work 31 December 2014 which were considered by the Audit In addition to attending the formal Audit Committee Committee.
In reaching its conclusions set out in more Dear Shareholder meetings, during the year the Committee members met detail below, the Committee has considered papers and As chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to report with operational and finance staff and received a number of Work of the Committee explanations given by management, discussed each matter below on the work of the Committee in 2014. technical updates.
in detail, challenged assumptions and judgements made and Shortly after each meeting, I report to the Board on the sought clarification where necessary.
It has reviewed and work of the Committee, outlining key matters and making The Audit Committee reviewed papers from the Groups Role of the Audit Committee discussed any internal audit reports in respect of the matters appropriate recommendations.
Set out below is the work of management team and from the Groups Auditors that under consideration and the Committee also received a report The Committees full terms of reference which are reviewed the committee in more detail.
provided details of the significant financial reporting from the External Auditors on the work undertaken to arrive at annually and were last updated in December 2013 are estimates and judgements made during the preparation and the conclusions set out in their audit report on page 125 and available on the Groups website www.
co. uk, The Committee has an annual work plan of standard items presentation of the Groups interim and annual accounts.
had the opportunity to discuss it with them in depth.
or on request to the Company Secretary General Counsel.
within its remit which is based upon the Groups half year and full year financial reporting cycle.
The following sets out Membership and Attendance Matter Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors Considered and Conclusion Reached the main areas of work undertaken by the Committee at each of its meetings: Carrying The Group balance sheet contains a significant value of The cash flow forecasts used for impairment considerations are I was chairman of the Committee throughout the year.
value of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with historical prepared from the strategic business plans presented to, and approved Christopher Rogers was a member of the Committee Key issues considered goodwill and acquisitions.
The Directors are required to determine annually by, the Board of Directors annually.
throughout 2014 and John Coleman was a member of the February intangible whether those assets have suffered any impairment.
They Management explained to the Committee how the cash flow and Committee until his retirement on 31 October 2014.
John Year-end accounting and tax update, including impairment assets do so by comparing the present value of future cash flows discount rate calculations were prepared, the key assumptions and consideration and going concern review for each cash generating unit with the carrying value of its Rogers joined the Committee following John Colemans judgements that were made and how sensitive those cash flows were to goodwill and other intangible assets.
Consideration of the annual report and financial statements and changes in the key assumptions.
John is currently Chief Financial Officer of the preliminary results announcement The calculations undertaken to help arrive at a conclusion The Committee concluded that management had taken a sensible, J Sainsbury plc and a member of the Board of Sainsburys Review of the systems of internal controls incorporate a consideration of the risks associated with consistent and reasoned approach to preparing the calculations.
Since the year end the Committee has also been Review and discussion of a report from Deloitte on their audit each cash generating unit and are based upon forecasts of It considered the judgements made to be acceptable and concluded joined by Coline McConville whose biographical details can findings, representation letter, independence and quality their long term future cash flows, which by their nature that, whilst the headroom was limited for some cash generating units, be found on page 83. control processes require judgement to be exercised and are subject to principally Wickes and PTS, see note 13 to the financial statements, considerable uncertainty.
Review of the effectiveness and appointment of the external auditors there was no immediate indication of any impairment.
All members of the Committee are considered to Review of the Audit Committees effectiveness be independent and have considerable financial and Accounting Supplier rebate agreements result in a significant value of In the Autumn, management presented a detailed paper to the May for supplier income being received by the Group.
The calculation of Committee and explained the Groups key systems and processes, how commercial experience gained through a variety of Review and discussion of upcoming changes to accounting and rebate rebates due to the Group from suppliers and the amounts to the sources of supplier income were identified, what estimates were corporate and professional appointments.
In particular, the governance rules consideration of any proposed changes to income be recognised in the income statement and deferred into stock made, how the calculations were undertaken and how recoverability Board considers that John Rogers, Christopher Rogers and accounting policies can be complicated due to the nature of the agreements.
In addition the Committee reviewed and I have the recent and relevant financial experience required Review of the annual internal audit activity plan discussed the findings of reviews of systems, controls and processes However, very few agreements are not coterminous with Review of the terms of reference for internal audit by the UK Corporate Governance Code see also the board undertaken by the internal audit team.
the Groups accounting year end, so the level of judgement Review of the Audit Committee terms of reference profiles on pages 82 to 84.
The Company Secretary was required to determine whether volume or value of goods A summary update of the year-end position was given to the Agreement of the Deloitte terms of engagement for the interim review secretary to the Committee throughout 2014. purchase thresholds are going to be reached is significantly Committee at the meeting held to consider the year-end results.
Review of tax strategy and compliance reduced.
As a result the key judgements are to determine the The Committee concluded that the controls over recognising and value of rebates to be immediately recognised in the The Committee held four meetings during 2014 and July recovering rebate income were appropriate and that the values included income statement.
attendance at the meetings is shown on page 90.
The Group Half year accounting and tax update, including impairment in the financial statements were appropriate.
considerations and going concern review Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, Inventory To meet customer expectations the Group carries a wide Management presented a paper that set out the level of stock Consideration of the interim results announcement the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit valuation range of stock in over 2,000 locations.
That stock should provisioning and its basis, so that the Committee could understand the Consideration and discussion of a report by Deloitte on their and the external auditor also attended most meetings.
At be included in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or adjustments made to stock figures for management accounts purposes review of the interim results and their representation letter each meeting attended, the external auditor and the Head of net realisable value.
The determination of cost may be in order to get to the stock figures for statutory accounts purposes.
Discussion of Deloittes audit letter of engagement, audit plan and complicated when rebate agreements are in place see above.
The Committee concluded that stock values were fairly stated in the Internal Audit were given the opportunity to discuss with the proposed audit fees Furthermore, determining the net realisable value of stock balance sheet.
Committee any matters which they wished to raise without November requires judgement to be applied.
In addition, during the year, Deloitte interim audit report systems and controls there were a number of meetings between the Chairman of Income taxes The Group is currently in discussion with H. M. Revenue The Committee considered the Groups provisions for unresolved tax Draft Annual Report & Accounts initial review, including a and Customs HMRC about the tax treatment of several positions.
It has received regular updates from management during the the Committee and the Head of Internal Audit and between review of significant accounting issues, accounting estimates and commercial transactions.
The outcome of these discussions is year and at the year-end received a paper setting out the latest position the Chairman of the Committee and the external auditors, accounting policies uncertain and so the Group has had to consider what benefits based upon the most recent discussions with the Groups advisors and without management being present.
Annual review of effectiveness of Internal Audit it is appropriate to recognise in the income statement.
The Committee concluded that the uncertainty justified the Annual review of effectiveness of Audit Committee provisions held and that the Groups tax position was fairly stated and Annual review of External Auditor effectiveness, quality control appropriately provisioned.
and independence 94 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 95 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE be put to the Annual General Meeting in May and will be Areas of Work Internal Audit effective for the 2015 half year reporting process.
Permitted Work Prohibited Work In 2013 we carried out a review of the skills and resources During the year the Committee reviewed the following in in our Internal Audit team and, as a result, during 2014 we Audit Related Non-audit Related Book-keeping and work related to the respect of the external auditor: recruited some new team members with the appropriate preparation of accounting records qualifications and experience.
Resources were also Activities required by law or legislation Tax compliance services T he policy on engagement of the external auditor for supplemented by the use of external resources for some to be undertaken by the Auditors Financial information system design or non-audit work, as referred to below, and the policy on Tax advisory services specialist area audits.
implementation the employment of anyone previously employed by the Reviews of interim financial information external auditor Public reporting on investment circulars The Committee continued to review the plans for work in Appraisal and valuation services Managed service reports to housing and similar documents 2014 throughout the first part of the year and increased the T he plans presented by the external auditor for conduct associations and local authorities Internal audit services emphasis on finance matters as opposed to operational Private reporting to sponsors and of the year-end audit and half-year review including the matters.
At each Committee meeting issues raised by, and similar parties in connection with related risk analyses, terms of engagement, fees and letters Actuarial services the recommendations made as a result of internal audits investment circulars and similar of representation were considered.
The Committee had a particular focus this Forensic work documents year on reviewing how quickly management implemented T he effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the actions to meet agreed recommendations.
Risk based Recruitment services external auditor, taking into account information and Employee benefit plan audits plans for work in 2015 were agreed by the Committee in written assurances provided by Deloitte LLP, on its quality Secondment of staff to a supervisory Provision of market data for November 2014. and independence controls, and its ethical standards and or management position remuneration benchmarking reports of the FRC Audit Quality Review Team formerly The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness called the FRC Audit Inspection Unit Provision of investment advice, broking of the internal audit function.
or legal services The Committee specifically discussed the effectiveness Risk Management and Internal Controls of the external audit process at its meetings of February and November 2014 and again at its meeting in February The Committee reviewed the Groups internal financial Value of Work The Committee understands that the total fees paid by the 2015.
In each case the Committee obtained input from controls and its internal control and risk management Group to Deloitte in 2014 amount to less than 0.02% of the Companys finance team.
In particular the Committee systems in February 2015.
The Committee considered Non-audit services require approval as follows: Deloittes UK fee income and considers that the Auditors considered the audit of the 2013 report and accounts, the these systems to have been overall effective during the year.
independence and objectivity has not been impaired by the audit plan for 2014 and the audit of the 2014 report and Where deficiencies were identified, actions were agreed to 5, 000 to 25,000 Chief Financial Officer non-audit fees paid to it in 2014. accounts, and the risk identification process.
The provide a remedy and the Committee monitored the clear 25,000 to 50,000 Chief Financial Officer and Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the down rate of the agreed actions, as noted in the previous Overview Committee Chairman external audit process.
The risk management systems were reviewed in 2014 to more closely align them with the As a result of the Committees work during the year, and Independence and Objectivity 50,000 Chief Financial Officer and Committee Groups strategy and corporate plans.
taking into account the result of the Board and Committee Chairman following a competitive tender One of the Committees responsibilities is to ensure evaluation process described on page 91, the Committee compliance with the Boards policy in respect of services External Auditor Formal approval by the Committee is also required if the considers that it has acted in accordance with its terms of provided by, and fees paid to, the external auditor.
There has aggregated level of forecast fees for non-audit services reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity Deloitte LLP or its predecessor firms is a leading been no change to this policy, which is summarised below exceeds 50% of the statutory audit fee.
and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
The international audit partnership, and was first appointed as and is included on the Groups website at Committee has also concluded that the Groups internal auditor to group companies more than 30 years ago.
control and risk management systems were effective during are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to the year.
The Chief Financial Officer reports twice annually to General Principle their appointment.
In accordance with current professional the Committee on fees for non-audit services payable I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer standards, the partner responsible for the audit changes The external auditors should only be chosen to carry out to the auditors.
any questions about the work of the Committee.
every 5 years: the last change occurred in 2010. non-audit work where its nature makes it more effective As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year the for the work to be carried out by auditors who have existing As flagged in the 2013 report, in 2014 the Committee Auditors were paid 435,000 2013: 442,000 for knowledge of the Group.
The external auditors should not began the process to tender for external audit services.
audit-related work, and 111,000 2013: 188,000 for Ruth Anderson provide non-audit services where it might impair their It is expected that the process will be completed during non-audit work.
Chairman, Audit Committee independence or objectivity in carrying out the audit.
March 2015 and a proposal either to re-appoint the existing 2 March 2015 auditor as permitted under regulation 537 2014 EU on the The principal items of non-audit fees relate to the interim mandatory rotation of statutory auditors, for one final five review, bond issue and sundry tax.
In view of Deloittes year period or to appoint a new auditor as appropriate, will detailed understanding of the Groups operations and accounting policies, and being mindful of future Auditor reporting obligations, the Audit Committee decided that it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake this work.
In addition, 1,415,000 2013: 837,000 of fees were paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work, including advice to the Remuneration Committee.
96 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 97
