STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 77 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Nomination Committee The Committees main focus is to strengthen, balance and understand Vladimir Yakushev was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive the range of skills, experience and diversity of the Board, its Committees Director on 7 February 2014.
Vladimir was the managing partner of and key roles below Board level.
S-Group Capital Management S-Group the Companys joint venture partner in Russia and it was felt that his background, knowledge and During the year the composition of the Board and its Committees skills in the Russian market would enhance the geographical diversity of has been refreshed.
Val Gooding was appointed as an Independent the Board.
He was not considered to be independent on appointment.
Non-Executive Director with effect from 7 February 2014.
She was Following his resignation from S-Group, he resigned from the Board on also appointed to both the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 24 March 2014 having not attended any meetings.
1 July 2014 and the Nomination Committee on 18 September 2014.
We are pleased that female representation on the Board is now at 23% As mentioned above, Harold Sher retired from the Board on 2013: 13%.
It had been the Boards intention to refresh its membership 18 September 2014, having also joined at the time of the merger in further by the end of 2014 but, because of the merger with TUI AG, this 2007.
The Board will miss his wise counsel and valued contribution has been put on hold for the time being.
In addition, the recruitment over the last seven years and wish him a long and happy retirement.
process for replacing Harold Sher, following his retirement as a Director composition of the committee on 18 September 2014, has also been postponed.
As at 30 September 2014, the Committee comprised three Independent Appointments and resignations during the year Non-Executive Directors and one Shareholder Director the latter On 16 December 2013 there were two resignations from the Board being appointed in accordance with the Relationship Agreement.
Volker Bttcher Executive Director and Tony Campbell Independent The Chairman is Sir Michael Hodgkinson Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Volker joined the Board of TUI Travel following Non-Executive Director and the other members are Minnow Powell the merger between First Choice Holidays PLC and the Tourism Division Independent, Val Gooding Independent and Friedrich Joussen of TUI AG in 2007.
He was the Managing Director of the Groups German Shareholder.
Harold Sher Independent was also a member of Specialist Division and, prior to that, held a number of senior roles the Committee until his retirement on 18 September 2014. including Managing Director, Central Europe.
Volker resigned from the Key objectives Company to pursue a career in the field of academia.
Tony Campbell also joined the Board following the merger in 2007.
His wealth of To identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment knowledge and experience in retailing online distribution was greatly as directors: valued and his input in the Boards deliberations will be missed.
To ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills, mix of knowledge and experience: and In relation to the appointment of Val Gooding, an extensive search of To review and contribute to the talent management strategy for suitable candidates was carried out by an independent external agency the Board, its Committees and senior managers in order to attract The Miles Partnership which has no other connection with the a highly-qualified and diverse workforce.
Prior to commencing the interview process the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity, the working of the Board as a unit and its collective knowledge had been taken into consideration when preparing a description of the role and capabilities required.
Consideration was also given to whether candidates would have sufficient time available to devote to their duties.
The Committee concluded that Val was an excellent candidate and would contribute significantly to the Boards deliberations because of her wide breadth of experience in executive and non-executive positions over many years.
It was also concluded that Val was independent in both character and judgement and therefore met the independence criteria laid out in the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following a review of her other commitments, it was felt that she would have sufficient time to devote to her duties.
Sir Michael hodgkinson Chairman TT27 | AR 2014 | 17 10 2014 | Proof 2 78 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Nomination Committee continued committee activities Diversity During the year two new appointments were made to the Board Our diversity objectives were agreed in 2012 and these were considered Val Gooding and Vladimir Yakushev although the latter subsequently again at the September 2014 meeting and confirmed as detailed below: resigned on 24 March 2014 and did not attend any Board meetings.
To achieve at least 25% female representation among the Boards Four meetings of the Nomination Committee took place in October membership by 2015: and December 2013 and in March and September 2014.
The following To ensure that at least half of the initial applicant pool for Board matters were considered: appointments consists of women: To engage executive search firms who have signed up to the October 2013: voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice: The Committee spent a considerable amount of time reviewing the To report annually against these objectives and other initiatives individual skillsets of Board members to enable us to ascertain where taking place within the Company which promote gender, there could be gaps either now or in the future.
Following this debate, international, ethnic and other forms of diversity: and the Directors biographies were updated see page 64 for full details.
To report annually on the outcome of the Board evaluation, the A more robust process was also agreed particularly in respect of the composition and structure of the Board as well as any issues and recruitment of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
challenges the Board is facing when considering the diverse December 2013: make-up of the Company.
The appointments of Val Gooding and Vladimir Yakushev as additional As at 30 September 2014, the percentage of female representation Non-Executive Directors were approved.
among the Boards membership was 23% accounting for three of 13 Directors 2013: 13%.
When making new appointments, the Board March 2014: is committed to seeking directors with the right skillsets and gender Additional three-year terms for Minnow Powell and Coline McConville balance in line with the 25% aspiration.
Specific guiding principles for the recruitment process relating to committee effectiveness survey Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors were The results of the Committees effectiveness survey were reviewed by considered and approved.
For Independent Non-Executive Directors the Board at its meeting in June 2014.
No major issues were raised.
this included: the use of executive search consultants who have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice: Sir Michael hodgkinson matters to take into account when preparing a role profile: and Chairman & Senior Independent Director 3 December 2014 consideration of succession planning for Independent Non-Executive Directors as part of the annual talent succession planning review.
For Executive Directors, the Committee agreed to improve the Non-Executive Directors visibility of senior executive succession planning and leadership development.
September 2014: Talent management and succession planning for key senior management roles was reviewed.
The focus was on a structured approach to performance and the development of talented individuals.
It had been the intention to consider the refreshment of the Independent Non-Executive Directors at this meeting but, in view of the merger, this was postponed as detailed above.
