STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 73 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Audit Committee The Audit Committee agenda is designed, in concert with the Boards, Audit committee to ensure that all significant areas of risk are considered during the The Audit Committee comprised five Independent Non-Executive course of the year.
During the year we have continued to focus on Directors at 30 September 2014 Minnow Powell, Val Gooding, Sir improving key financial controls, processes and procedures across the Michael Hodgkinson, Janis Kong and Coline McConville.
Four were organisation and I am pleased with the good progress that has been members throughout the year and Val Gooding was appointed on achieved in fulfilling our responsibilities in this regard.
At least one had recent and relevant financial experience are still improvements to be implemented and embedded across the in compliance with the Code provision C3.1.
Group which will remain a key point of focus for the Committee.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Director of I am satisfied that the Audit Committee was presented with papers of Group Audit Services and the external auditor are invited to, and good quality during the year, provided in a timely fashion to allow due routinely attend, all meetings and other Non-Executive Directors consideration of the subjects under review.
I am also satisfied that may also attend.
meetings were scheduled to allow sufficient time to enable full and informed debate.
We reviewed and amended our Terms of Reference Meetings with reference to the Code and guidance from the Institute of The Audit Committee met eight times during the year.
The Chairman Chartered Secretaries & Administrators ICSA.
We decided that of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on how the Committee oversight of the Annual Report & Accounts and whether it is fair, discharges its responsibilities.
balanced and understandable should be a matter for the Board as a As Chairman of the Audit Committee it is my responsibility to ensure whole.
The updated terms of reference were approved by the Board that the Committee is rigorous and effective in its role of monitoring and are available on www.
and reviewing: During the year we invited a number of members of management the integrity of the financial statements of the Company including to present to the Committee on key areas of risk and control in order formal announcements relating to the Companys financial to encourage transparency and accountability, together with open performance and the significant financial reporting judgements discussion and debate.
Management invited to present to the contained therein : Committee included: the effectiveness of internal controls and the risk management the Managing Directors and Finance Directors of our major framework including presentations from Group, Sector, regional businesses: and functional management : the Project Managers and Project Sponsors of our major projects including additional updates where the projects were significant the effectiveness of Internal Audit including agreeing in advance and complex : the work of Group Audit Services and reviewing the results of the work undertaken : Group Accounting including new accounting developments and controls over prepayments : the arrangements by which employees may raise concerns regarding Group Treasury including Group Treasury policy and counterparty potential impropriety in confidence and ensuring these concerns risks : are investigated appropriately: and Group Tax including the Groups overall taxation strategy and the the integrity of the Groups relationship with the external auditors key factors for the Groups overall tax position and forecasts for the and the effectiveness of the audit process, including reviewing the future tax charge and cash taxes : and policy for the engagement of the external auditors to supply Group Insurance including related risks and mitigation.
non-audit services, considering their appointment, re-appointment and removal and approving the remuneration and terms of I met, individually and in private, with management in order to engagement of the external auditors.
understand more fully the context and challenges of their business operations and thereby ensure the Committees time was used most effectively.
The activities of the Committee members have enabled us to gain a good understanding of the culture of the organisation, the risks and challenges faced and the adequacy and timeliness of the action being taken to address them.
No major matters were raised in the annual evaluation of the Committees performance.
Minnow Powell Chairman TT27 | AR 2014 | 16 10 2014 | Proof 1 74 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Audit Committee continued During the year activities of the Committee included the following: Liabilities The business model is such that it is the level of provisions and accruals the integrity of financial reporting and any judgements thereon which can have a significant impact on the income statement.
Detailed analysis of the key judgements was We reviewed the integrity of the financial statements of the Company received by management to support the recognition of such balances and all quarterly announcements relating to the Companys financial on the year-end balance sheet, and it is an area which our Group performance.
auditors focus on in their work and discuss with us.
We are satisfied In last years Annual Report we reported on judgements relating to that the balances reported are materially accurate.
Aircraft transactions and Denied Boarding Compensation along with In addition, we examined the specific risks relating to the main legal our annual review of Going Concern, Impairment, Provision for Claims, cases facing the Group and the adequacy of provisions made against SDIs and Tax.
The key areas reviewed in the current year are set out them.
Management presented papers detailing the background to each below.
In each case we reviewed, discussed and challenged detailed case, the latest developments, their assessment of the respective risks, papers received from management and took account of the views of the mitigating action taken and amounts provided.
We agreed with the the external auditors.
judgements reached by management in each of the cases presented.
Denied Boarding compensation DBc hotel prepayments As a result of a ruling by the European Court of Justice in October Twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews the level of prepayments 2012, there is a present obligation to past events in respect of delay made to hoteliers and assesses their recoverability with reference to compensation being due to passengers where they have been subject the expected volumes of future trading with, and the credit-worthiness to a flight cancellation or a delay of more than three hours subject to of, those hoteliers.
Again this year we reviewed the methodology for provisioning in Separately Disclosed items SDis relation to DBC exposure, the input factors, the key assumptions being SDIs are those significant items which, in managements judgement, applied and the classification for financial reporting.
We were satisfied are highlighted by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full that the resultant provision had been calculated on a reasonable basis understanding of the Groups financial performance.
We reviewed the in light of current claims experience, i. e. rolling claim rates and pay-out items proposed by management to be reported as SDIs each quarter ratios in each of the source markets, whilst noting that these factors to validate that it was appropriate for such items to be reported this may change with future experiences.
way, and agreed with their judgement.
Items included the pension credit arising in the UK&I as a consequence of offering to members Going concern and pensioners of the defined benefit pension schemes the option to We assessed our available facilities, including those to be made available swap future higher pension increases for a higher initial pension with by TUI AG when the merger completes, facility headroom, our banking lower annual increases: and restructuring costs in TUIfly as heavy covenants and the sensitivity analyses on these items.
maintenance work is being outsourced to other Group companies and to third parties.
We challenged managements forecasts including sensitivities to downturns in budgeted trading.
Reduced customer deposits were The risks relating to the VAT position of Hotelbeds Product SLU and factored explicitly into the model and an assessment of the degree the decision to regularise the position were taken by the Board as a of flexibility in the payables ledger at the cash low point in December whole.
2014 was also taken into account.
The performance and future prospects of our joint venture operating We were satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation in the Russian and Ukrainian source markets were also considered by continues to be appropriate in the context of the Groups funding the Board as a whole.
As a result of this review, 28m of loans made and liquidity position.
to the joint venture were provided for and disclosed separately.
Annual goodwill impairment review tax During the year we also considered the judgements made in relation We reviewed the judgement of management in assessing whether to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model deferred tax assets will be utilised in future periods and agreed with inputs used.
We reviewed the recommendation made by external the balances reported on the year-end balance sheet.
In respect of advisers, who were engaged to calculate the weighted average cost German Trade Tax we once again reviewed the judgement made by of capital using more robust long-term data to reduce the impact of management who also requested an update from external advisors on short-term stock market volatility.
We examined movements against the opinion provided last year.
The update continued to support the the previous year in the risk premium and long-term growth rate for Group position that, with the risk more than minimal but less than each cash generating unit, reviewed the detailed WACC calculations 50%, the disclosure as a contingency remains appropriate at this time.
along with the explanations provided and noted that the impairment model was consistent with the long-term planning approved by the Profit estimate Board in September 2014.
We were satisfied with the quality of the The Independent Directors reviewed the schedule and activities work presented.
proposed by management and PwC to ensure effective reporting in August and October of the estimated year end result in accordance The annual impairment review has not resulted in an impairment with Rule 28 of the City Code.
The Independent Directors reviewed, charge this year.
on each occasion, both the process itself and the key judgements.
We We also reviewed and approved the sensitivities applied by note that the actual results are consistent with the estimates made.
management which were consistent with 2013 and the reasonably possible change to model inputs including the related disclosure, as required by IAS 36. tt27 | AR 2014 | 16 10 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 75 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We received feedback during the year on the progress being the effectiveness of internal controls and the achieved in relation to preventative and detective controls risk management framework implemented during the year and activity planned for the coming We recognise that a robust and effective system of internal control year relating to Anti-Bribery & Corruption, Competition, Data is critical to achieving reliable and consistent business performance.
Protection, Due Diligence and Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions On behalf of the Board, we review the effectiveness of the risk and Human Rights legislation.
management and control systems in relation to the key financial, Group IT Compliance.
Created in March 2012 to provide a compliance operational and compliance controls.
We noted continued focus and framework across the Groups IT function by producing and or improvement in this area during the year.
publicising appropriate standards and monitoring compliance to those We also reviewed the key controls preventative and detective in standards using a mixture of self-assessment and a programme of place to identify and mitigate the risk of material misstatement due to review visits.
non-compliance with laws and regulations per the Financial Reporting We noted the progress being achieved in relation to the Councils report Audit Quality Thematic Review dated January 2014 development of the IT control environment and the strengthening and reviewed the risks to the business arising from fraud and the of the team.
We reviewed the Groups compliance with PCI DSS associated controls management have in place to minimise those risks.
and the ongoing work and necessary work on improving the We have seen continued improvement in the transparency and active effectiveness of Business Continuity Planning BCP and Disaster ownership of risk and control management throughout the organisation, Recovery DR. We will continue to monitor progress during this driven and supported by a strong tone at the top.
We have noted the coming year.
growing strength of the three lines of defence.
Whilst we are pleased While there is still further work to do, we noted that the three Group with the progress achieved, there remains much still to do and work in Compliance functions and the three functions that make up Group these areas will be ongoing in 2015.
Audit Services Risk, Internal Audit and Fraud work well together to ensure the free flow of relevant information between them and have First line of defence developed a co-ordinated and consistent approach across the Group Management through the Group Compliance Steering Committee.
We continue to spend time with management below Board level in order to understand their concerns and the risks, controls and challenges in We reviewed the talent pool of senior financial management during their respective business or functional areas.
the year, noting the continued roll-out of competency testing in conjunction with Korn Ferry, a third party consultant, for key finance Local compliance functions management and the role of the Finance Academy to educate and We noted the continued investment in local compliance functions within train our employees.
our key businesses during the year, which will serve to strengthen third line of defence the control environment closer to the front-end of businesses across the organisation.
internal Audit We noted further improvements in the development and effectiveness Second line of defence of the Internal Audit function during the year against the transformation Risk Management plan set out by the Director of Group Audit Services in 2012.
The We have noted the appetite of the Group Risk Management function function continues to innovate and we have noted the close and to drive continuous improvement in the risk management competence constructive working relationship that has developed between Internal and capability of the Group and the positive results that have been Audit and the business, as evidenced in annual and post audit projects achieved in ensuring transparency, alignment and accountability through feedback surveys which are reported in full to the Audit Committee the organisation.
We have received regular updates on the work of the and in comments made by management directly to the Committee.
Group Risk Management Committee and noted the quality of the risk We believe this reflects well both on the function and on management.
discussions that have taken place during the year.
The Committee holds a private session with the Director of Group Audit While significant improvements have been made in the year, this will Services without management present once a year.
I also meet with the continue to be a strong area of focus during the coming year.
Director of Group Audit Services informally before each Committee meeting, without management present, in order to provide the Group compliance opportunity for open and timely dialogue.
Typically we discuss the We noted the continued development and strengthening of the quality and content of papers due for discussion with the Committee, Group Compliance functions during this year.
The Committee receives emerging business risks, the quality of management engagement with presentations from the three Group Compliance functions up to Internal Audit and key internal audit findings and the associated response.
Created in 2011 to provide assurance the effectiveness of internal Audit that individual company balance sheets across the Group are fairly Again this year we requested a review on the effectiveness of Internal stated and minimum financial controls are adhered to through a Audit.
The approach was consistent with the previous two years, programme of site visit reviews to ensure that companies in the covering the effectiveness of the function positioning, processes, Group comply with existing financial reporting requirements.
Effectiveness was assessed both from an internal We received feedback on the individual visits, the ongoing perspective through an independent review of the function programme of education, communication and independent benchmarked against best practice and from an external perspective validation of the financial minimum controls as well as feedback the perception of 12 senior financial personnel senior management on quarterly self-assessment returns.
We were pleased to note that the function continues to perform strongly.
Created in January 2012 to identify, assess and respond to legal and regulatory risk across the Group.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 16 10 2014 | Proof 1 76 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Audit Committee continued Re-appointment of external auditors the arrangements by which staff may raise Based on the results of our annual review, and our experience during concerns regarding potential impropriety in the year, we have recommended to the Board the re-appointment of confidence and that these concerns will be the external auditors who have been our auditors for four years.
In the investigated appropriately event that the merger with TUI AG does not complete, we will continue We received updates during the year on the arrangements by which the to review the performance of PwC formally on an annual basis and, business encourages feedback from management and employees on although not required by the UK Code to undertake a formal tender instances of potential impropriety.
This included presentations from process until 2020, will continue, during this remaining six-year period, to Group Legal on the development of the whistle-blowing hotlines across keep this under close review in the best interests of our shareholders.
the Group including number of calls, issues and benchmarking against non-audit services other named companies, from Group Finance on the development The Audit Committee has developed the Companys policy on the of HOT principles Honesty, Openness and Transparency and the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services and has communication thereof via the Finance Academy.
sought to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditors.
the integrity of the Groups relationship We have achieved this by considering the Auditing Practices Board with external audit and the effectiveness Ethical Standard Number 5 revised.
This relates to non-audit services of the external audit process provided to audited entities and sets out six principal threats to objectivity and independence, for example, the auditors cannot act as effectiveness of external audit management nor audit their own work.
We have reviewed, monitored Again this year we requested a review of the effectiveness of external and approved, where appropriate, the nature and extent of non-audit audit although, this year, we adopted a new survey.
This survey was services provided by the Companys external auditor and are satisfied completed by 13 senior financial personnel and senior management that their independence and objectivity has not been compromised.
closely involved in the year-end reporting process and four members of We have also reviewed the fees both individually and in aggregate the Audit Committee and a shorter survey was completed by operating relative to the audit fee and managements compliance with the business FDs and Group department heads.
The surveys covered three approval thresholds set out in the Companys non-audit services policy.
key areas the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery and the quality of people and service.
Questions related to professional We acknowledge that, in some circumstances, the external auditors scepticism, integrity and competence, understanding of the business understanding of the business can be beneficial in improving the risks, issues and their impact, the clarity and appropriateness of the efficiency and effectiveness of advisory work and, therefore, it has audit strategy, the efficiency and effectiveness of audit delivery, been considered appropriate that the external auditors be engaged.
constructive relationships and control recommendations, good A summary of the policy is given below: judgement and clear and timely communication.
Overall, the survey results were positive about PwCs performance.
We noted that all of non-audit fees are capped in any one year to no more than the audit the key actions identified from the previous years review had been fee itself: addressed.
Some further areas for improvement were identified during routine tax compliance and advisory services may be provided up to this years review and we will assess progress against these in 2015. a pre-approved maximum of 1m in any one financial year, subject In addition, we also noted the results of the Audit Quality Review Team to the overall cap noted above: part of the Financial Reporting Council assessment of the effectiveness any engagement where the value is expected to exceed 100,000, of PwC relative to its peers as well as PwCs own transparency report.
but be less than 250,000, should be pre-approved by the Chairman Details of fees payable to the auditors and its associates are given in of the Audit Committee: and Note 7.
Further information in respect of non-audit services is given engagements at or above 250,000, must be pre-approved by the on the right.
In total 1.9m was spent on non-audit fees during the year being 28% Audit plan and approach of audit and audit related fees.
Fees in respect of the merger with During the year we reviewed PwCs benchmarking of our organisations TUI AG are being borne by that company.
Further details of non-audit audit risks relative to the FTSE 100 and the audit strategy developed services are set out in Note 7.
Significant expenditure that was as a result.
We noted the risk-based audit approach, key areas of audit authorised in the year, i. e. 250,000 or over, is outlined below: focus, materiality and the audit plan produced as a result.
The annual plan takes account of size, complexity and the control environment of non-Audit Services Significant expenditure Authorised individual businesses as well as the overall coverage split by revenue, Business Work Rationale for use of absolute EBITA and absolute net assets.
We welcomed PwCs area undertaken the external auditor 000s assessment that the risk of material misstatement in the Group accounts Group Extension of the project Detailed knowledge 250 has reduced over the last two years but we noted and agreed with their to benchmark the Groups and understanding continued emphasis on substantive as opposed to controls testing.
IT infrastructure of the business The Committee holds a private session with the Lead Partner without management present once a year immediately prior to the publication of the year-end accounts.
In addition I meet with the Lead Partner on a regular basis throughout the year to provide the opportunity for open Minnow Powell communication and the free flow of any concerns relating both to the Chairman openness, transparency and general engagement of management with 3 December 2014 the audit process as well as to understand PwCs assessment of key judgements as they arise.
