STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 67 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Corporate Governance report chairmans Governance Statement Board procedures responsibilities The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long-term success The Board of TUI Travel PLC believes that effective corporate of the Company by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder governance is integral to the successful delivery of our business goals value.
The Board seeks to achieve this through setting out its strategy, and is therefore a key contributor to the long-term success of the monitoring its strategic objectives and providing oversight and Company.
We remain committed to maintain standards by ensuring direction to the management team.
The Board considers the impact of that a robust framework of systems and controls is in place and its decisions on wider stakeholders including employees, suppliers and refreshed on a continual basis.
We have made good progress across the environment.
the governance agenda some of which is highlighted in the following pages.
We know that processes and procedures need to be reviewed The Board meets regularly, including visits to operational locations, and improved on an ongoing basis and our aim is that they become and is responsible for the overall leadership, strategy and control of embedded in the daily lives of management throughout the Group.
A full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, along with the terms of reference of the Boards key committees The Boards role is to set the strategy for the Group and, to this end, and the individual roles of Board members, can be found online we work closely with the executive team to give support and advice.
com and will be available for inspection at the We also provide challenge, where appropriate, in order to drive Annual General Meeting AGM.
The schedule of matters includes: continued and sustained improvement.
determining the strategy of the Group: For this year, the Board had agreed to put in place new initiatives amendments to the structure and capital of the Group: in respect of succession planning as well as our annual talent approval of financial reporting: management review, we planned a more detailed approach to succession planning for the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
oversight of the Groups internal controls: However, in view of the proposal for the Company to merge with our approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: majority shareholder TUI AG, these initiatives were put on hold and acquisitions, disposals and share dealings: will now be reviewed upon completion of the merger.
Board membership and appointments: As Chairman, I am fortunate to be able to call on a broad range of approval of remuneration of Directors and certain senior management: skills and perspectives in the board room from colleagues with a deep corporate governance matters: and understanding of the challenges which face us now and in the future.
approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
Friedrich Joussen The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of the Chairman Groups system of internal control and risk management framework and this has been developed in accordance with the Code.
This system of compliance UK corporate Governance code Provisions control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk Throughout the reporting period the Company has complied with all of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code September internal controls which include financial, operational and compliance 2012 the Code including its main principles, except in respect of controls and risk management can only provide reasonable, and not Code Provision A3.1 the Chairman should on appointment meet absolute, assurance against material loss.
the independence criteria set out in Code B1.1 see explanation on The role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and page 69. control and the Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to the Chief Executive and, through him, to the other Leadership Executive Directors and members of the Group Management Board For Audit Committee Report see page 73, Nomination Committee GMB.
For information on the GMB see Our People on pages 32 Report see page 77 and Remuneration Committee Report see page 79. and 33.
Board governance structure the BOARD OF tUi tRAveL PLc AUDit cOMMittee ReMUneRAtiOn cOMMittee nOMinAtiOn cOMMittee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Monitors the integrity of our financial reporting, Sets remuneration and incentives for the Executive Ensures that the Board and its Committees have the performance of the internal audit function Directors: approves and monitors remuneration the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and and of the external auditor and reviews the and incentive plans for the Group: and assesses experience by nominating suitable candidates effectiveness of the Groups systems of and makes recommendations to the Board on the for approval by the Board to fill executive and internal control.
Members: Members: Members: Minnow Powell Chairman Coline McConville Chairman Sir Michael Hodgkinson Chairman Sir Michael Hodgkinson Janis Kong Friedrich Joussen Janis Kong Sir Michael Hodgkinson Minnow Powell Coline McConville Val Gooding Val Gooding Val Gooding TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design 68 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Corporate Governance report continued The key elements of the Companys internal control and risk Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board management framework in place across the Group are as follows: and its committees Nomination Audit Remuneration Independent The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives.
Board Committee Committee Committee Director Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings The GMB and Sector management integrate these objectives into Friedrich Joussen their operational and financial business plans.
Chairman 7 8 3 4 The GMB meets regularly, together with other senior executives, to Sir Michael Hodgkinson consider Group operational and financial performance and business Senior Independent development.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf Director & Deputy of the GMB on significant changes in the business and the external Chairman 8 8 4 4 8 8 8 8 3 3 executive Directors environment.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board Peter Long with financial information which includes key performance and Chief Executive 8 8 risk indicators.
Johan Lundgren The Group operates a risk management process which is integrated Deputy Chief Executive 8 8 3 3 within the short and long-term business planning processes see Will Waggott page 42.
Chief Financial Officer 8 8 3 3 1 Volker Bttcher 0 2 The Treasury position of the Group, including cash, foreign exchange independent nonand fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with executive Directors policies appropriate for each Sector and is the responsibility of the 1 Tony Campbell 1 2 Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
2&3 Val Gooding 5 5 0 0 2 2 3 3 3 3 Financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity analysis, Janis Kong 8 8 8 8 8 8 3 3 are prepared routinely throughout the year for review by the GMB Coline McConville 8 8 7 8 8 8 3 3 and the Board.
These forecasts also include details of the Groups Minnow Powell 8 8 4 4 8 8 3 3 ongoing compliance with its regulatory and banking requirements.
Erhard Schipporeit 7 8 2 3 Dr Albert Schunk 8 8 3 3 The Group has established investment appraisal and authorisation 4 Harold Sher 8 8 4 4 2 2 procedures and its capital expenditure is reviewed against budgets non-executive Directors which have been approved by the Board.
not considered The Group routinely assesses the capability of its people to deliver independent the business objectives set and responds accordingly.
This is Horst Baier 7 8 supported by the three lines of defence see page 42.
Sebastian Ebel 8 8 5 Vladimir Yakushev 0 0 Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken where necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through the Groups Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings during internal control and risk management processes see page 42. the year in which the individual was a Board member.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the Notes: effectiveness of internal controls during the year and confirms that: 1 Resigned on 16 December 2013 2 Appointed to the Board with effect from 7 February 2014 there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing 3 Joined the Nomination Committee on 18 September 2014 the significant risks faced by the Group: 4 Retired on 18 September 2014 this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date 5 Appointed on 7 February 2014 and resigned on 24 March 2014 of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: the process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with Dr Erhard Schipporeit was unable to attend meetings on 26 June 2014 the Code: and as they conflicted with commitments already in his diary.
Between June and September 2014, there were three meetings of the Independent in addition, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of the risk Directors to deal with matters relating to the merger between the management process.
A fourth meeting was also held on 10 October The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief 2014.
The Directors considered independent in this context are Executive is clearly established, has been agreed by the Board and is Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Val Gooding, Janis Kong, Johan Lundgren, reviewed annually.
The Board approves any necessary amendments Coline McConville, Minnow Powell, Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk to reflect changes in legislation, policy and practices.
and Will Waggott i. e. excluding Peter Long member of the Executive Board Vorstand of TUI AG, Friedrich Joussen and Horst Baier All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company also members of the Vorstand and Sebastian Ebel member of the Secretary and can take independent professional advice, if necessary, Management Board of TUI AG.
During the year advice was sought by the Independent Non-Executive Directors as a group from Lazard and There were two meetings of the Non-Executive Directors, without Herbert Smith Freehills in relation to merger discussions.
Advice was management present, held in December 2013 and September 2014. also received from Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays.
These focused primarily on the effectiveness of the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed, including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns that any Director may have in connection with the operation of the Company.
During the year there were no such unresolved issues.
A secure iPad-based paperless meeting system, which was introduced in 2012, continues to be rolled out across the Group and helps our drive to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment.
As well as the Board and its Committees, this has now been adopted in numerous businesses across the Group.
tt27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 69 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION effectiveness Val Gooding, Janis Kong, Coline McConville and Minnow Powell are considered to be effective Directors due to their breadth of experience Board composition and ability to provide appropriate challenge in Board debate.
As part Our Board consists of 13 Directors 12 of whom served throughout of the initial recruitment process, external consultants were used to the year.
At 30 September 2014, in addition to the Chairman, Friedrich conduct a search for suitable candidates and the Nomination Committee Joussen, there were three Executive Directors and nine Non-Executive considered and concluded that each of them met the independence Directors seven of whom are considered to be independent.
Val provisions of the Code.
They have no relationships, transactions or Gooding was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director with arrangements that are required to be disclosed pursuant to LR13.8.
17 1. effect from 7 February 2014 and Vladimir Yakushev was also appointed Erhard Schipporeit and Albert Schunk are considered to be effective as a Non-Executive Director on 7 February 2014.
He resigned on Directors due to their particular industry experience.
At the time of 24 March 2014 without attending any Board meetings.
Volker Bttcher their appointments, the Nomination Committee concluded that they met and Tony Campbell resigned and retired respectively on 16 December the necessary independence criteria.
Albert Schunk is an adviser to RIU, 2013 and Harold Sher retired on 18 September 2014. the Spanish international hotel group, with which the Company, and independence of non-executive Directors a number of its subsidiaries, have material contractual arrangements.
The Chairman, Friedrich Joussen, did not comply with the independence RIU Group is also a shareholder of TUI AG, a controlling shareholder of criteria of the Code at the time of his appointment.
This is because the Company.
Erhard Schipporeit has no relationships, transactions or Mr Joussen is the Chief Executive of TUI AG a 53.72% shareholder arrangements that are required to be disclosed pursuant to LR13.8.
17 1. of the Company as at 30 September 2014.
Horst Baier and Sebastian Sir Michael Hodgkinson was the independent Chairman of First Choice Ebel are also not considered to be independent as they are both Holidays PLC and was therefore considered to be independent on members of TUI AGs Executive Board.
his appointment as the Senior Independent Director of the Company Details of the Chairmans other significant commitments are given following the merger with the Tourism Division of TUI AG in 2007. in his biography on page 64.
He has no other external roles and the He is considered to be effective due to his considerable experience Board is confident that he has sufficient time to perform his duties in executive and non-executive positions.
He has no relationships, as Chairman of the Company.
transactions or arrangements that are required to be disclosed pursuant to LR13.8.
The Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent are Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Val Gooding, Janis Kong, Coline McConville, The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all Minnow Powell, Dr Erhard Schipporeit and Dr Albert Schunk.
Each Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective year all the Directors complete a Conflicts of Interests and Material Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of Interests in Contracts Arrangements declaration which captures those commitment in their respective roles.
matters which could affect their independence and such disclosures, For the purposes of the Listing Rules, TUI AG is a controlling shareholder if any, are included in this report.
of the Company that is, a person or group of people acting together The Board recognises that the Code requires that at least half the Board, which exercises or controls more than 30% of the voting rights in the excluding the Chairman, should be Independent Non-Executive Directors Company.
Because the Company has a controlling shareholder, the and was compliant with provision B1.2 of the Code throughout the year Listing Rules require the re-election of the Independent Directors ended 30 September 2014.
The Board is committed to ensure that its to be approved at the AGM by a majority of the votes cast by both: membership is refreshed on a regular basis.
i the shareholders of the Company as a whole: and ii the independent shareholders of the Company that is, all of the shareholders of the Skills and experience Company entitled to vote on the election of the Independent Directors Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page 64 excluding any controlling shareholder.
and can also be found online at www.
At the AGM, the Company will therefore propose the resolutions in The Directors have collective responsibility for the Companys relation to the re-election of the Independent Directors as ordinary direction.
In particular, Non-Executive Directors are responsible for: resolutions on which all shareholders are entitled to vote, but the Company will separately count the number of votes cast by independent scrutinising and challenging performance across the shareholders in favour of such resolutions as a proportion of the total Groups business: votes of independent shareholders cast to determine whether the bringing wide-ranging skills and experience, including threshold referred to in ii above has been satisfied.
The Company will independent judgement on issues such as strategy, announce whether each threshold has been satisfied in respect of each performance and risk management: resolution for the re-election of an Independent Director.
assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and controls: and Under the Listing Rules, if a resolution to re-elect an Independent challenging constructively the Chief Executive and Director is not approved at the AGM by both a majority of the votes cast Executive Directors.
by the shareholders as a whole and by the Companys independent shareholders but one of these two thresholds is satisfied, the Company In accordance with the Code, all Directors will be subject to annual is entitled to propose a further resolution for the re-election of that re-election by shareholders.
To enable shareholders to make an Independent Director for the approval of the shareholders as a whole informed decision, the 2015 Notice of the AGM includes biographical by ordinary resolution.
If the Company proposes such a resolution, details and a statement as to why the Company believes the Directors the meeting at which the resolution is voted upon must be held at least should be re-elected.
The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM 90 days after but within 120 days of the AGM.
that the performance of each individual continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The effectiveness of the Accordingly, if any resolution to re-elect an Independent Director is not Directors is considered as part of the annual Board evaluation process approved by a majority vote of the Companys independent shareholders and any issues arising are addressed appropriately by the Chairman.
at the AGM, the relevant Independent Director s will be treated as The reasons why the Company considers that each Independent having been re-elected only for the period from the date of the AGM Non-Executive will be an effective Director are given below.
until the earlier of: i the close of any general meeting of the Company, TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design 70 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Corporate Governance report continued convened for a date at least 90 days after but within 120 days of the Performance evaluation AGM, to propose a further resolution to re-elect him her: ii the date Each year the performance of the Board and its Committees Audit, which is 120 days after the AGM: and iii the date of any announcement Remuneration and Nomination is evaluated.
The evaluation for the by the Board that it does not intend to hold a second vote.
In the event years ended 30 September 2013 and 2014 were both undertaken by that the Independent Directors re-election is approved by a majority an online survey and comprised a series of questions in relation to the vote of all shareholders at a second meeting, the Independent Director running of, and business conducted at, Board meetings.
The questions will then be re-elected until the next AGM.
also covered the performance of individual Directors including the Chairman of each Committee.
Each Director was asked to place a score If any resolution to re-elect an Independent Director is not approved by against the questions and the Directors were able to make additional the shareholders of the Company as a whole at the AGM but is approved comments where appropriate.
by the independent shareholders, the relevant Independent Director s may be re-appointed by the Board as a Director from the date of the Summary reports were produced following analysis of the responses AGM until the earlier of: i the close of any general meeting of the by broad category and by reference to a traffic-light system showing Company, convened for a date at least 90 days after but within 120 the number of red, amber and green scores.
As disclosed in last years days of the AGM, to propose a further resolution to re-elect him her: annual report, the Board and its Committees considered the reports of ii the date which is 120 days after the AGM: and iii the date of their effectiveness at their meetings in September 2013.
Following on any announcement by the Board that it does not intend to hold a from those initial discussions, the Chairman had conversations with second vote.
individual Directors to highlight any points for further consideration.
The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the Following these conversations, various positive changes were agreed: Remuneration Report commencing on page 79.
Directors interests 1 the style format of presentations was revised to provide greater in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 93. clarity and focus: 2 a review of individual skillsets of the Directors was undertaken to identify any potential gaps: 3 a more structured Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the approach to reviewing the strategic plan: and 4 a more formalised Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys and transparent approach to succession planning particularly in registered office and will be available at the AGM which is scheduled respect of the appointment of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
to take place on Thursday 5 February 2015.
In addition, to give greater visibility of individual senior managers to the The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that Board, and to provide a forum for general discussion, it was decided a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is made available that Managing Directors would be invited to attend Board dinners for all new Directors on appointment and this is updated on a regular and give an informal presentation on their businesses.
The Company Secretary is on hand to answer any questions informal presentations were given by the Managing Directors of four which may arise.
During the year, Val Gooding and Vladimir Yakushev significant business areas.
were both given Induction & Training Manuals and Val also received One of the outcomes of the 2013 evaluation process led to a review a full and tailored induction programme.
She met with members of the of the number and appropriateness of questions in the survey.
As a senior management team including the Chief Executive, Deputy Chief result of this, a full review of the questions was undertaken prior to Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and senior the launch of the survey in April 2014.
As the 2013 review had been a managers from IT, HR, Corporate Communications, Treasury, Aviation much more in-depth exercise than in previous years, fewer issues were and Internal Audit.
Meetings were also arranged for her with various raised and these were presented, and considered, at the June 2014 Company advisers i. e. brokers, auditors and lawyers.
Two outcomes were 1 to carry out more post-project acquisition appraisals: and 2 to put in place a more Directors conflicts of interests rigorous approach to succession planning for Non-Executive Directors.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect In accordance with the Code, the intention had been to facilitate interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of next years evaluation by way of personal interviews with an the Company.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts independent external adviser but this has been put on hold until and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the Articles of Association the merger completes.
contain a provision to this effect.
In March 2014, the Non-Executive Directors met to appraise the The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is Chairman, Friedrich Joussen, who had just completed one year in satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Directors of his role as Chairman.
It was unanimously agreed that meetings the Company.
The process for monitoring conflicts is as follows: were chaired in an open and objective manner which allowed Board members the opportunity to express their views.
changes to the commitments of all Directors are reported to the Board: the Directors are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire on appointment and annually thereafter: any conflicts identified are presented to the Board for consideration and, as appropriate, authorised in accordance with the Companies Act and the Articles of Association: and Directors are responsible for notifying the Company Secretary if they become aware of any actual or potential conflict situations or a change in circumstances relating to an existing authorisation.
The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
tt27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 71 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Accountability This covers our businesses in all major source and destination markets which have more than 50 employees.
There is also a web-based whistleThe Directors Responsibilities Statement can be found on page 102. blowing reporting service in Cape Verde, Cuba, Kenya, the Maldives The Business & Financial Review, the Audit Committee Report, and Tunisia.
These confidential hotlines and webmail reporting facilities Nomination Committee Report, Directors and Remuneration Reports now cover 99.5% of Group Revenue.
can be found on pages 52 to 61, 73 to 76, 77 and 79 respectively.
Any matters arising from the use of the whistle-blowing channels are Legal and regulatory compliance investigated as appropriate and a summary provided to the Audit An annual Group Legal & Regulatory Compliance self-certification Committee.
The Group Legal & Regulatory Compliance Department process is in place, where all operational businesses across the Group works in conjunction with Group Audit Services to investigate and certify their progress in benchmarking base-level to gold standard advise on any incidents around the Group.
operational Legal & Regulatory controls against Group criteria in the International TUI Travel whistle-blowing policies make it clear that areas of Anti-Bribery & Corruption ABC, Competition, Data Protection employees can approach senior executives, or Group Audit Services, and Trade Restrictions sanctions and controls against financial crime.
to make reports and emphasise that anyone making a report with Businesses answer detailed questions about their practices and provide honest intentions need not fear any adverse consequences even if the extra information when required.
Those responses inform a tailored, information provided proves to be unfounded.
Colleagues are also proactive and strategic approach to risk management.
They are encouraged to approach Compliance through a dedicated Compliance analysed, prioritised and used to monitor and drive the progress of email address, Human Resources or line managers with any issues businesses in these vital areas.
From 2015, questions on the approach they may face.
to human rights by Group businesses will be included.
competition compliance Anti Bribery & corruption ABc A comprehensive competition training, knowhow and support The Company has become the first in the travel industry to join the programme is in the process of being delivered to remind our senior esteemed anti-corruption charity Transparency International as a management, purchasing teams and others of their obligations to member of its Business Integrity Forum.
foster healthy competition and protect against anti-competitive 88% of employees across the Group have undergone risk-focused, practice under EU and local legislation through the jurisdictions in  training on their responsibilities under local and which we do business.
Over 85% of our top-tier senior managers international ABC legislation.
Updated ABC, Business Gifts & Hospitality, have been trained in their Competition Law obligations from both Conflicts of Interest and Investigation policies have been communicated an EU and a local law perspective in face-to-face seminars for senior and guidance on third party due diligence and facilitation payments management, and e-learning for other colleagues currently being distributed.
A Compliance intranet page has been created to give rolled out.
It requires colleagues to re-affirm their commitment to greater online visibility of Compliance initiatives, regular bulletins are leading responsibly and competing vigorously in all our markets, and distributed to stakeholders on legal developments and a Compliance to contact Group Legal or Group Compliance with any concerns.
Champion of the Year award inaugurated to recognise achievements in the field.
A Say No software app has been developed in association with Data protection the Institute of Business Ethics to give employees practical assistance The security of customer and employee data is a key Group priority.
Our ABC due diligence around high-risk profile A Group Data Protection and Privacy programme has been initiated contracting has been improved during the year.
We are proud of our with a Data Privacy Network of data protection officers around the Supplier Code of Conduct detailing the Groups ethical and compliance Group led by our Chief Data Protection Officer.
A new senior Data expectations of suppliers.
This is one of the first of its kind in our Protection Counsel has been appointed who works closely with IT industry and has been in roll out to all our material suppliers since Security functions.
Group policies on data protection and retention May 2013 see Sustainable Development on page 24.
Anti-Bribery have been updated to reflect the changing regulatory environment responsibilities are now included in new supplier contracts.
Our Group and to facilitate secure international data transfers.
Data privacy Legal & Regulatory Compliance team gives legal advice on high-risk professionals sit on the Architecture Governance boards of specific negotiations and transactions where necessary.
A data protection e-learning and poster campaign has been designed for roll out in 2015.
Group Audit Services administer a yearly Conflict of Interest declaration for 3,500 senior managers which has been extended to new joiners in Sanctions watch 2014 and now includes an explicit commitment to legal and regulatory The Group Legal & Regulatory Compliance team updates relevant compliance and business integrity in accordance with TUI Values.
businesses and, where necessary, assists in communications to investors and financial institutions on changing US and EU sanctions Whistle-blowing obligations and trade restrictions affecting local businesses, giving Whistle-blowing hotlines are now fully operational in the UK, USA, legal advice and training where appropriate.
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Italy, Jamaica, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam and the British Virgin Islands.
TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design 72 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Corporate Governance report continued Relations with shareholders In respect of general meetings of the Company: The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and members of the Investor the Company prepares separate resolutions on each Relations team hold regular meetings with major shareholders to review substantially separate issue and does not combine resolutions the Groups performance and prospects.
The views of shareholders together inappropriately: are communicated to all members of the Board following such the election or re-election by shareholders of an Independent meetings.
During the course of these meetings the issue of governance Director will require approval both by a majority of the votes cast is discussed.
Presentations to major shareholders are made at least by the shareholders as a whole and by the Companys independent twice yearly, after the announcement of the interim and preliminary shareholders but, if one of these two thresholds but not both is results, details of which, together with the Groups financial reports satisfied, the Company is entitled to propose a further resolution and other announcements, can be accessed via the Groups website to be voted upon at least 90 days but within 120 days after the date www.
of the AGM for the re-election of that Independent Director, for the approval of the shareholders as a whole by ordinary resolution : The Code recommends that the Senior Independent Director meets proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to with a range of major shareholders to gain an understanding of their vote for, against or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form makes it views.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Senior Independent Director and clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not Coline McConville Chairman of the Remuneration Committee held be counted: meetings with several major shareholders during October 2013.
They also met with shareholders in October last year to explain the changes all postal proxy votes are returned to Equiniti the Companys in the Committee membership and to discuss remuneration policy Registrar which is responsible for ensuring votes are properly generally see page 88 for further details.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson also received and counted: met with a number of major shareholders to discuss the implications proxy counts are displayed at the close of the AGM and the final poll of the proposed merger with TUI AG.
results are posted on the Companys website www.
com following closure of the meeting: and As a result of the extensive investor feedback provided by the the Annual Report and Accounts is laid before shareholders Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, and those Non-Executive at the AGM.
Directors who did meet with shareholders, the remaining Non-Executive Directors did not consider it necessary to meet with other major The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken shareholders during the year.
They believe that they are kept aware of as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the all issues, which are fed back to them at Board meetings, and therefore information necessary for the Companys shareholders to assess additional meetings were not required.
However, they have confirmed the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
they would be happy to make themselves available if any shareholder requested such a meeting.
Regular updates are produced by the Companys brokers and circulated to the Board to keep them informed of market and industry views.
The updates also include analyst views of TUI Travels position in the market.
There is an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the AGM.
The AGM also provides a forum for the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the views of shareholders with them directly.
