Corporate Governance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role The Committee reviews the composition and balance of the Board and Senior Executive team on a regular basis.
The Board reviews this analysis in order to inform future changes in Board membership.
When recruiting a new Executive or a non-executive Director the Committee appoints external search consultants to provide a list of possible candidates, from which a shortlist is produced.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are set out on the corporate website.
Committees main responsibilities The Committees main duties are: Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes required: DEAR SHAREHOLDER There are five Executive and seven non-executive Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, Directors on the Tullow Board.
They come from varied candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when professional backgrounds and provide the Board with a they arise: diverse range of experience, knowledge and approach.
Their biographies are on pages 44 and 45 of this report.
Succession planning for Directors and other Senior Executives: The main task of the Nominations Committee is to ensure that the Board has the necessary skills and Reviewing annually the time commitment required expertise to support the Companys current and future of non-executive Directors: and activities.
In addition, we work to ensure that we recruit Making recommendations to the Board regarding and develop a diverse group of senior managers who membership of the Audit, Remuneration and EHS will be able to take on the most senior positions in the Committees in consultation with the Chair Company in the future.
Committee membership and meetings The Committee currently comprises four non-executive Directors.
Simon Thompson was Chairman of the Committee Simon Thompson throughout the year.
The membership and attendance of Chairman of the Nominations Committee members at Committee meetings held in 2014 are shown in the table on the next page.
10 February 2015 In addition to the formal meetings, the Committee remit allowed for informal discussions, interviews, telephone conversations and a number of informal meetings during the year.
Committee activities The principal activities of the Committee during 2014 and subsequent to the year-end were: Board membership changes, as announced earlier this year, included David Bamford retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 30 April 2014, having served on the Board for nine years.
The Committee recommended that Ann Grant assume the role of Senior Independent Director which was previously held by David Bamford.
It was further announced that, with effect from 1 June 2014, Mike Daly would join the Tullow Board as a non-executive Director.
He shortly thereafter also joined the Audit and EHS Committees: 84 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board diversity The Board currently consists of five 2014 NOMINATIONS Executive Directors and seven non-executive Directors.
COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS Two of the seven non-executive Directors are women, but all of the Executive Directors are male, reflecting the relatively low level of gender diversity amongst the Senior The Board was refreshed in 2014 following the Management of the Group, but in line with the oil and gas retirement of David Bamford as of 30 April 2014 industry generally.
In order to meet the aspiration set out and the appointment of Mike Daly as a nonin the 2011 Davies Report Women on Boards that women executive Director with effect from 1 June 2014. should make up 25% of board positions by 2015, we would Succession planning continued well throughout have to restrict future Board appointments to women only 2014, and the development and retention of key or significantly restructure the size and composition of the skills and talents remains a high priority, Board.
We do not regard either of these actions as being in particularly in the current uncertain market the best interests of the Company.
continue to seek to address the problem of lack of diversity in senior management positions, as described in the Nominations Committee membership Organisation and Culture section on page 46, but Meetings recognise that we are unlikely to achieve our aspiration Committee member out of a total possible of 25% female representation by 2015.
Currently, 8% of Simon Thompson Chair 2 2 our Senior Management team are women.
The Committee Tutu Agyare 2 2 held a meeting in December specifically to look at the Ann Grant 2 2 issue of diversity, having noted that Tullow had not made David Bamford 1 1 the improvements against its diversity aspirations that it had hoped to make in 2014.
The Committee acknowledged that a more comprehensive strategy on diversity, that includes plans to develop internal sources of diverse leadership candidates, would be necessary and agreed to work towards such a strategy in 2015.
The Committee also stipulated that during the current re-organisation, designed to align the business with current market conditions, maintaining or enhancing diversity should be one of the criteria taken into consideration: Senior Management succession planning The Committee and the Board have worked closely with Executive Directors in reviewing the Senior Management talent pool within Tullow.
We work to ensure that all candidates have personal development plans that will provide them with the knowledge and skills required to progress within the Group.
Within this work, there is a particular focus on those who would increase the diversity of those holding Senior Management roles: Membership of Board Committees The Nominations Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate individuals for membership of Board Committees to ensure that they have individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience.
During the year, on the Committees recommendation, the Board approved the appointment of Mike Daly as a member of the Audit and EHS Committees respectively on his appointment to the Board and also the appointment of Steve Lucas to the Nominations Committee: and Committee evaluation The performances of the Board and its Committees were considered as part of the Board review process: however, as noted in the Corporate Governance section of this report on page 73 the performance of the Nominations Committee was not addressed directly in the Board review because, at the time of review, the Committee had only met once for the purpose of discharging routine business only.
