STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Governance Steve Lucas has been Audit Committee Chairman since May 2012.
Steve, who is a Chartered Accountant, was finance director at National Grid plc from 2002 to 2010.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience: Steve Lucas therefore meets this requirement.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Ann Grant, Tutu Agyare, Anne Drinkwater, Jeremy Wilson and Mike Daly, who joined the Committee in 2014, and brings extensive oil and gas experience.
Biographies of the Committee members are given on pages 44 and 45.
Together, the members of the Committee bring a broad range of industry, commercial and financial experience which is vital in supporting effective governance.
The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, the General Manager Finance, the Deputy DEAR SHAREHOLDER Company Secretary and representatives of the external Strong corporate governance and risk management auditors are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee are a key part of Tullows business model and the and participated in all of the meetings during 2014.
The Board and Audit Committee continue to be focused on Chairman of the Board also attends meetings of the maintaining high standards of governance and risk Committee by invitation and was present at all of the management across the Group.
The Audit Committee meetings in 2014.
The external auditors, Deputy Company continued to oversee the financial reporting process in Secretary and the Group Internal Audit Manager have order to make sure that the information provided to unrestricted access to the Committee Chairman.
shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable and allows assessment of the Companys performance, In 2014, the Audit Committee met on six occasions.
Meetings business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee are scheduled to allow sufficient time for full discussion of also oversaw the internal control environment and we key topics and to enable early identification and resolution were pleased that throughout 2014 the internal of risks and issues.
Meetings are aligned with the Groups controls have been considerably improved following financial reporting calendar.
the implementation of SAP for Tullows requisition to pay process, which will also bring continuous The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference improvement and efficiencies to our accounting and during the year.
These are in line with best practice and reporting practices.
reflect the requirements of the UK Governance Code and the FRCs 2012 Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Audit A key agenda item for the Audit Committee in 2015 will Committees terms of reference can be accessed via the be the implementation of the changes to the UK corporate website.
The Board approved the terms of Corporate Governance Code and the revised Financial reference on 9 December 2014.
Reporting Council FRC guidelines, which were published in the second half of 2014.
Following an Tullow notes the new UK Corporate Governance Code and initial review, Tullow believes it is largely compliant but the new Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control further assessment and actions will take place in 2015, and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in particularly in regard to risk management, internal September 2014 by the FRC.
As the New Code applies to controls and long-term viability.
The Board has already accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014, the initiated a review of our risk management processes Audit Committee will assess its implications for the Annual across the Group, with an aim to develop a consistent Report and Accounts in 2015 with a view to fully comply with enterprise-wide process over the coming year and the the new disclosure requirements at year end 2015.
Audit Committee will play an active role in making sure Summary of the Committees responsibilities the objectives of this initiative are met.
The Committees detailed responsibilities are described in its Terms of Reference and include: Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Group, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements: Steve Lucas Reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the Chairman of the Audit Committee consistency of significant accounting policies, and whether appropriate accounting standards have 10 February 2015 been used: www.
com 79 Corporate Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key areas reviewed in 2014 2014 AUDIT COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS The Committee fully discharged its responsibilities during the year.
Approval of half year and full year A key element of the governance requirements regarding the Financial Statements Groups Financial Statements is for the Annual Report and Review of the effectiveness of the external Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
To ensure audit process this requirement is met by Tullow, the Group takes a Review of the work of the independent collaborative approach to creating its Annual Report and reserves auditor Accounts, with direct input from the Board throughout the Assessment of the remit and results of process.
The process of planning, writing and reviewing the internal audit report is run by a central project team, alongside a formal audit process undertaken by our external auditors.
Oversight of key risks associated with a major IT system project In order for the Audit Committee and the Board to be satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity Audit Committee membership of the final report, the following steps are taken: Meetings attended Committee member out of a total possible Early planning, taking into consideration regulatory Steve Lucas 6 6 changes and best practice: Tutu Agyare 6 6 Comprehensive guidance issued to key report Anne Drinkwater 6 6 contributors across the Group: Ann Grant 6 6 Validation of data and information included in the Jeremy Wilson 6 6 report both internally and by external auditors: Mike Daly 4 4 A series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across different levels in the Group that aim to ensure Appointed to the Committee on joining the Board on consistency and overall balance: and 1 June 2014 Senior management and Board sign-off.
The following describes the work completed to discharge Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and the Audit Committees main responsibilities: Accounts and advising the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Financial reporting information necessary for shareholders to assess The Committee monitors the integrity of the Financial Tullows performance, business model and strategy: Statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviews the significant Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial reporting issues and accounting policies and Companys internal financial controls and internal disclosures in the financial reports.
control and risk management systems: Reviewing the adequacy of the whistle-blowing system, The Committee met with the external auditors as part of the the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and full year and half year accounts approval process.
During this the systems and controls for the prevention of bribery, exercise the Committee considered the key audit risks and receive reports on non-compliance: identified as being significant to the 2014 accounts and the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or Reviewing and assessing the annual internal audit plan judgemental matters identified during the audit and halfand receiving a report on the results of the internal yearly review as well as any recommendations or audit functions work on a periodic basis: observations made by the external auditors.
The primary Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation including assessing their independence and objectivity to the 2014 accounts and how these were addressed are and reviewing the annual audit plan to ensure it is detailed overleaf.
consistent with the scope of the audit engagement, and reviewing the findings of the audit: Assessing the qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: and Ensuring that the audit services contract is put out to tender in line with the order by the Competition and Market Authority.
80 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant financial judgements for 2014 How the Committee addressed these judgements Intangible assets The Group has a very active exploration and appraisal work The amounts for intangible exploration and evaluation assets programme and the Committee reviews and challenges represent active exploration projects.
These amounts are management assumptions and judgements underlying the written-off to the income statement as exploration costs unless calculation of intangible assets for each well at each balance commercial reserves are established or the determination sheet date.
In addition, Deloitte LLP have identified this as a process is not completed.
The key areas in which management significant area of focus for their audit and undertake has applied judgement are as follows: the Groups intention to discussions with operational and finance staff to challenge proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or evidence provided by management to support the value of licence, the likelihood of licence renewal or extension and the intangible assets and provide detailed reporting to the success of a well result or geological or geophysical survey.
Committee on the results of their work.
This is a recurring area of judgement.
Taxation Following the farm-down of Ugandan assets in 2012 the The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the Uganda Revenue Authority assessed Capital Gains Tax on the ordinary course of its business, including tax claims from tax transaction.
The Committee was satisfied with the treatment authorities in a number of the jurisdictions in which the Group of these issues and judgements applied through reporting from operates.
The Group assesses all such claims in the context of senior management, supported by advice from external the tax laws of the countries in which it operates and, where professional advisers and independent legal counsel.
This is applicable, makes provision for any settlements which it also an area of higher risk and as a result the Committee considers are probable.
receives in-depth written and oral reporting from Deloitte LLP on their conclusions from the audit of these matters.
The farm-down of Ugandan assets to Total and CNOOC in 2012 Recoverability of contingent consideration allowed for a working capital adjustment to be paid to Tullow The Group had recognised a current receivable of $358 million on receipt of certain project approvals.
The working capital at 31 December 2013 in respect of contingent consideration would be received in full if FID was granted by June 2014 and receivable from the Uganda farm-down.
Recoverability of this would be reduced to nil on a sliding scale at the end of receivable is dependent on a number of judgements in respect December 2016.
Management now believes that FID is unlikely of the timing of the receipt of certain project approvals.
to be received until December 2016 and has therefore written-off the entire contingent consideration.
Deloitte LLP have provided written and oral reporting to the Audit Committee in their findings and conclusions on this matter.
This judgement is specific to 2014.
Decommissioning A review of all decommissioning cost estimates is undertaken Decommissioning costs are uncertain and cost estimates can annually by an independent specialist.
The results are then vary in response to many factors, including changes to the used for the purposes of the annual financial statements.
relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new technology Provision for environmental clean-up and remediation costs is or experience at other assets.
The expected timing, work based on current legal and contractual requirements, scope, amount of expenditure and risk weighting may also technology and price levels.
The impact on decommissioning change.
Therefore significant estimates and assumptions are estimates was reviewed and challenged by the Committee.
made in determining the provision for decommissioning.
Deloitte LLP also reviewed the results as part of their audit.
Results of the impairment tests were discussed and challenged Value in use of property, plant and equipment PPE by the Committee and Deloitte LLP review these calculations Management performs impairment tests on the Groups PPE and audit the underlying economic models to satisfy assets when there are indicators of impairments.
The themselves of the integrity of the process.
This is a recurring calculation of the recoverable amount requires estimation area of judgement.
of future cash flows within complex impairment models.
Key assumptions and estimates relate to commodity prices based on forward curves for two years and the long-term corporate economic assumptions thereafter, discount rates that are adjusted to reflect risks specific to individual assets, commercial reserves and the related cost profiles.
Results of the impairment tests were discussed and challenged Carrying value of goodwill by the Committee and Deloitte LLP review these calculations Following the acquisition of Spring Energy in 2013, Tullow and audit the underlying economic models to satisfy recognised goodwill in line with the requirements of IFRS 3- themselves of the integrity of the process.
Management performs impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill semi-annually.
The calculation of the recoverable amount is based on the likely future economic benefits of the exploration assets in the portfolio and is based on chance of exploration success and estimated value of the potential discoveries.
com 81 Corporate Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External auditor been placed on them by management, maintaining the The Audit Committees responsibilities include making independence of the audit and how they have exercised recommendations to the Board on the appointment of professional challenge: external auditors and overseeing the Boards relationship In order to ensure the effectiveness of the external audit with the external auditors.
Also, where appropriate, process, Deloitte LLP conduct an appropriate audit risk reviewing the selection of new external auditors and identification process at the start of the audit cycle.
This assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process.
plan is presented to the Audit Committee for their review and approval and for the 2014 audit the key audit The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the risks identified included carrying value of exploration Audit Committee should have primary responsibility and evaluation assets, impairment of producing assets, for making a recommendation on the appointment, recoverability of Uganda contingent consideration, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
carrying value of Tulipe assets in Gabon, tax On the basis of the review of external audit effectiveness judgements, oil and gas reserves, decommissioning and described below, the Committee recommended to the DD&A estimates, revenue recognition, liquidity risk and Board that it recommends to shareholders the regoing concern as well as risk of management override appointment of the external auditors at the 2015 AGM: of controls.
These and other identified risks are The external auditors are required to rotate the audit reviewed through the year and reported at Audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
Committee meetings where the Committee challenges 2014 was the final year of the current lead audit the work completed by the auditor and tests partners tenure and in 2015, Tullow will go through managements assumptions and estimates in relation a rotation of the Deloitte audit engagement partner: to these risks: The audit contract was last tendered in 2004 and no The Committee also seeks from management an contractual obligations existed that acted to restrict the assessment of the effectiveness of the audit process.
Audit Committees choice of external auditors.
Tullow In addition, a separate questionnaire addressed to all notes the Order by the Competition and Markets Authority, attendees of the Audit Committee and senior finance The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies managers is used to assess external audit effectiveness.
Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive As a result of these reviews, the Audit Committee Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities.
considered the external audit process to be operating The Audit Committee has assessed the implications of the effectively: new regulation and the transitional rules set out in Article The Committee closely monitors the level of audit and 6 of the Order.
According to those rules, the Company is non-audit services provided by the external auditors to required, at the latest, to run a competitive tender process the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to in respect of the appointment of an external auditor for assignments that are closely related to the annual audit the financial year ending 31 December 2024.
The Audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed Committee has agreed to recommend to the Board that understanding of the Group is necessary.
A policy for the we follow the transitional rules with an annual review of engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit this approach: services is in place to formalise these arrangements, The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the which requires Audit Committee approval for certain Audit Committee assessed the qualification, expertise categories of work.
This policy will be revised in 2015 and resources, and independence of the external to reflect changes in the regulatory environment.
The auditors as well as the effectiveness of the audit policy is designed to ensure that the external auditors process.
This review covered all aspects of the audit independence is maintained: and service provided by Deloitte LLP, including obtaining a An analysis of the fees paid to the external auditors in report on the audit firms own internal quality control respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note procedures and consideration of the audit firms annual 4 to the financial statements.
In addition to processes transparency reports in line with the UK Corporate put in place to ensure segregation of audit and nonGovernance Code.
The Audit Committee also approved audit roles, Deloitte LLP are required, as part of the the external audit terms of engagement and assurance process in relation to the audit, to confirm remuneration.
During 2014 the Committee held a to the Committee that they have both the appropriate private meeting with the external auditors and the Audit independence and the objectivity to allow them to Committee Chairman also maintained regular contact continue to serve the members of the Company.
This with the lead audit partner throughout the year.
These confirmation was received and no matters of concern meetings provide an opportunity for open dialogue with were identified by the Committee.
the external auditors without management being present.
Matters discussed included the auditors assessment of significant financial risks and the performance of management in addressing these risks, the auditors opinion of managements role in fulfilling obligations for the maintenance of internal controls, the transparency and responsiveness of interactions with management, confirmation that no restrictions had 82 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Internal controls and risk management Committee receives regular reports on the status of the The Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness implementation of internal audit recommendations.
No of the Groups internal control procedures and risk significant weaknesses were identified as a result of risk management systems.
management and internal control reviews undertaken by Internal Audit during 2014.
The Group also undertook The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness regular audits of non-operated joint ventures under the of the Groups internal control procedures and risk supervision of business unit management and the Group management systems through the work of the internal Internal Audit Manager: audit team, the external auditors observations on The Committee receives summaries of investigations internal financial controls identified as part of their of known or suspected fraudulent activity by third audit, and through regular reporting by the Business parties and employees including ongoing monitoring Unit and corporate teams to the Board: and following-up of fraud investigations: and In addition, the Committee received reports from the The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of independent reserves auditor ERCE and reviewed the Internal Audit through its review of progress against arrangements in place for managing Information plan, the results of audits reported at each of the Technology risk relating to the Groups critical meetings, and through the thorough effectiveness information systems: review report provided by the new Group Internal Audit The Committee also reviewed: Manager.
Results of the review were discussed at the Arrangements for Company employees and Committee and actions to further improve internal audit contractors to raise concerns, Speaking-Up effectiveness are being implemented.
in Confidence: Whistle-blowing procedure Companys procedures to detect fraud: and Finally the Audit Committee ensures that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery: and In line with best practice and to ensure that Tullow The Committee also received reports from the Financial works to the highest ethical standards, the Groups Risk Committee providing an update on the independent whistle-blowing procedure continued to effectiveness of financial risk management and an operate throughout 2014 to allow staff confidentially external review report on the Companys fraud risk to raise any concerns about business practices.
This procedure complements the established internal reporting process.
The whistle-blowing policy is Internal audit requirements included in the Code of Business Conduct which is The Committee considers how the Groups internal audit available on the corporate website.
The Committee requirements shall be satisfied and making considers the whistle-blowing procedures to be recommendations to the Board.
appropriate for the size and scale of the Group.
The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access Review of effectiveness of the Audit Committee and responsibility to the Audit Committee Chairman and During the year, the Audit Committee completed a review Committee.
His main responsibilities include evaluating of the effectiveness of external audit and of the Audit the development of the Groups overall control Committee itself through a series of questionnaires.
The environment as well as the effectiveness of risk in-depth review of the Audit Committees effectiveness identification and management at operating, regional was commissioned from an external advisory firm.
On top and corporate levels.
During 2014, the Group Internal of the questionnaire the review comprised interviews with Audit Manager met with the Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee members and those regularly attending and with the Audit Committee without the presence of the Audit Committee meetings, and review of Audit management to assess managements responsiveness Committee documentation.
The Committee was to Internal Audit recommendations made during the year considered to be operating effectively and in accordance and to assess the effectiveness of Internal Audit: with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the programme of 2014 internal audit work developed to address both financial and overall risk management objectives identified within the Group.
The plan was subsequently adopted with progress reported at each of the Audit Committee meetings.
33 internal audit reviews were undertaken during the year, covering a range of financial and business processes in the Groups London office and the main operational locations in Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, Gabon and Norway.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to management and in summary to the Audit Committee during the year.
