Strategic Report GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT STRONG & EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT The risks we manage have the potential to adversely impact our shareholders, employees, operations, environment, performance and assets.
Mitigating these risks ultimately helps to protect our business, people and reputation.
This process supports decision making The Board is responsible for risk management as part of at an asset, Business Unit, regional, functional, Group and its role in providing strategic oversight and stewardship of strategic level.
This includes approving the annual budget and five-year business plan, evaluating risks to the delivery of The tables on pages 62 to 67 represent the Board and the plan and agreeing operational targets.
Key strategic managements view of the most material long-term risks and opportunities are also reviewed annually by the performance risks to Tullow, which remained on the Boards Board.
Board committees, including the Audit, Nominations, agenda throughout the year.
They do not comprise all the Remuneration and EHS Committees, play an important role risks and uncertainties we face.
Risks more associated with in reviewing the effectiveness of Tullows risk management.
our day-to-day activities are identified, assessed, managed In 2014, the Board focused on specific risks associated and monitored at Executive, Business Unit, project or with strategy and execution, governance and values, functional levels.
organisational capacity, stakeholder engagement and Board A number of cross-functional management committees, development.
In response to the shift in market sentiment including the Global Exploration Leadership Team, Financial away from exploration risk and the steep drop in oil price in Risk Committee, Compliance Committee, and Information the fourth quarter of the year, our focus shifted to financial Security Committee, provide further assurance of the risks with extensive reviews of our strategy, opportunities Groups technical, commercial, financial, compliance and and exposures.
Further information on our business plan information systems risks.
On a quarterly basis, Senior and principal risks is on pages 14 and 15 of this report.
Management assesses the Groups performance through Business Unit reviews, which include risk assessment We seek to continually improve our risk management and mitigation plans.
capability, and following the publication of the new UK Governance Code and FRC Guidelines on Risk Management, The Vice Presidents and the corporate functions co-ordinate the Board initiated a review of our risk management process.
and manage the operational activities within the Business In 2015, the Board will oversee the roll-out of an enhanced Units.
Risks in our specific countries of operation is integrated risk management process, with strengthened managed by the Business Unit leadership teams through governance and reporting requirements.
The process will operational monitoring of asset performance.
Formal improve the identification, measurement and monitoring of operational reporting is completed weekly with monthly risk, as well as effective risk assurance.
financial reporting to senior management, the Executive The Executive Committee, which was established in 2014, Committee and the Board.
Tullows key policies, standards, actively reviewed risks to our business plans throughout the procedures and systems to support risk management are year and also brought greater integration of our planning referenced in the long-term risks table on pages 62 to 67. and management approach to our Business Units and Group functions.
It also created a forum in which new risks and opportunities were discussed and risk-informed decisions about optimal courses of action were made.
In addition to the short-to-medium term risks associated with the delivery of our business plan, the Board also considered the long-term risks and opportunities we face in MORE INFORMATION a wide range of business activities.
This involves a critical Our strategy & business plans 15 evaluation of the risks Tullow faces and a review of our business and operational profile to ensure newly identified Long-term risks 62 40 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE & RISK FRAMEWORK Our integrated governance and risk framework demonstrates the key risks associated with each of our strategic priorities and how they could impact our performance.
The framework also identifies the Executive Directors that have overall responsibility for each risk and the internal committees that are responsible for the ongoing management and monitoring of our risk exposure.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is collectively responsible for risk management and each Executive Director is responsible for designated strategic risks.
The Executive Committee assists the Executive Directors in running the business.
The Vice Presidents and Business Unit leadership teams manage the delivery of the Groups business plan and day-to-day operations.
Corporate functions manage designated Group-wide corporate risks and assurance of Business Unit activities and operational and financial performance.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGIONAL & BUSINESS UNITS 12 members Includes the Executive Directors and CORPORATE FUNCTIONS regional business and corporate Five Executive Directors function leaders Seven non-executive Directors Four Board Committees Business model component Key risks to performance Risk owner Risk assurance Sustainable long-term Strategy fails to meet Aidan Heavey Board shareholder expectations Chief Executive Officer value growth Executive Directors Executive Committee Sustained exploration failure Angus McCoss Executive Committee Exploration Exploration Director Global Exploration & Appraisal Leadership Team Key operational or Paul McDade Executive Committee Development development failure Chief Operations Officer Development & Operations & Production Insufficient liquidity, Ian Springett Executive Committee Finance & Portfolio inappropriate financial strategy Chief Financial Officer Financial Risk Committee Management Cost and capital discipline Oil and gas price volatility Safety failure or environmental Paul McDade Board EHS Committee Responsible Operations or security incident Chief Operating Officer Failure to manage social impacts Graham Martin Supply chain failure Executive Director & Company Secretary Bribery and corruption internally, Graham Martin Board Governance & Risk with suppliers and externally Executive Director & Compliance Committee Management Company Secretary Governance and legal risk Executive Committee Political risk Angus McCoss Information Systems Exploration Director Information and cyber security Leadership Group Loss of key staff and Graham Martin Executive Committee Organisation & Culture succession planning Executive Director & Company Secretary Failure to manage Executive Committee Shared Prosperity Aidan Heavey socio-economic impacts Chief Executive Failure to build local Officer employment and supplier base www.
com 41 Str Strat ategic R egic Report eport GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Board remains focused on effective risk management Despite these changes, we remained focused on delivering and strong corporate governance.
We have reviewed the the other 2014 Board objectives see page 74.
During changes to the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the periods of uncertainty and change it is easy to lose focus on Code and the key changes to the Code relate to safety.
While our safety performance was disappointing in remuneration, risk management and long-term viability.
the first half of the year, I am pleased that performance Tullow believes it is already largely compliant, but further improved over the second half of 2014 with increased assessment and actions will take place in 2015, particularly in leadership visibility on the recent challenges and better regard to risk management, internal controls and long-term management, organisation, and control of work in the field.
We believe that the remuneration policy approved by We also continued to roll out new process safety standards shareholders at the AGM in 2014 remains fully compliant and, and procedures.
Community engagement, social while the performance of 23% against the scorecard this year performance and security and human rights training were was disappointing, it indicates that the performance targets all significantly strengthened in response to the continuing were appropriately stretching.
challenges of operating in frontier regions in Africa.
Political risk evaluation and reporting were also improved.
Board performance in 2014 The core purpose of the Board is to set the strategy of the Ethics and values Group to deliver long-term sustainable value for the benefit Tullows commitment to transparency, demonstrated by our of all stakeholders.
To achieve this, the Board seeks to voluntary reporting of all payments to governments ahead of ensure that we have in place the right people, processes the EU transparency directive, has received wide recognition.
However, the reputation of the Company depends not only on policy, but also on the day-to-day behaviour and values During the course of 2014, the Board revised the Group of every employee and contractor.
Our Code of Business strategy in response to market conditions in order to Conduct COBC is at the heart of how we do business.
preserve value and to reposition the Group for long-term success.
A core part of the strategy set out in 2013 was to We were therefore pleased that our COBC was ranked monetise part of our portfolio in order to fund explorationbest in the FTSE100 and ahead of many leading European led growth.
As market conditions deteriorated, the value companies in a recent survey by the Red Flag Group, but of offers received in various sales processes did not meet the training given to staff on compliance with the COBC is expectations.
Accordingly, in early 2014 we reduced perhaps even more important.
By the end of 2014, 1,928 expenditure on high-cost, deepwater exploration and members of staff, representing 94% of the workforce, had strengthened the balance sheet so that we would not attended a three-hour awareness programme.
We have become forced sellers of assets.
We also reconfirmed also developed an e-learning tool for all staff, including our prudent approach to managing commodity price risk, those whom we were unable to reach with face-to-face as a result of which we have hedged approximately 60% training.
Notwithstanding these efforts, there were 68 of our 2015 entitlement oil sales at an average floor price concerns raised during 2014 of which 20 were submitted of US$86 per barrel.
via Safecall, our independent, confidential reporting line.
As a consequence of investigations, 26 staff and supplier At the end of the year we announced a significant reallocation personnel left the Group due to breaches of our COBC.
of capital expenditure from exploration to development and Although it is regrettable that such actions should be production projects that will generate cash returns in the necessary, they underscore the Boards commitment to short-to-medium term.
We also launched a project to simplify compliance with the COBC and our zero tolerance and streamline the Group, in order to minimise costs and approach to corruption in any form.
create a leaner, fit for purpose organisation to deliver the revised strategy.
None of these changes were contemplated Stakeholder engagement at the start of the year and the rapid response of management Last year we drew attention to our engagement with the and the Board underlines our dynamic approach to strategy World Bank, bilateral aid agencies and civil society to raise and risk management.
awareness of the need for capacity-building to enable the countries where we operate to develop effective legal, 42 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tullow is proud to have been assessed by Transparency International as having 100% transparency in our anti-bribery and corruption reporting.
fiscal and regulatory frameworks to manage the development BOARD COMMITTEES of the oil industry and the revenues it will generate.
We are pleased to report that during 2014, the World Bank approved a $50 million technical assistance programme for Kenya, while Audit Committee the UKs Department for International Development approved STEVE LUCAS, CHAIR OF 25 million support for skills development in the oil and gas THE AUDIT COMMITTEE sector in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Mozambique.
This will Responsible for ensuring our support the development of technical and vocational training financial statements give a true to ensure local people benefit from the major investments and fair view of the business.
We were also pleased to be invited to page participate in the London launch of the Agenda for the 79 Development of Kenyas Oil and Gas Resources, published by the Kenyan Civil Society Platform for Oil and Gas.
We continue to regard strong governance, effective and Nominations Committee predictable regulation, and the transparent use of resource SIMON THOMPSON, CHAIR OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE revenues to provide tangible benefits to the citizens of the Ensures the balance of skills and countries where we operate, as key enablers of our strategy.
expertise of the Board remains Board evaluation appropriate to meet the needs of An independent evaluation of the Board was conducted the Company.
In 2014, we conducted a follow-up page internal evaluation with support from Lintstock consisting 84 of a questionnaire, one-to-one discussions between the Chairman and each of the Directors, and a Board review EHS Committee of the conclusions and recommendations.
Overall the ANNE DRINKWATER, CHAIR evaluation was positive.
The Board has been strengthened OF THE EHS COMMITTEE due to the more recent appointment of Directors such as Responsible for monitoring and Mike Daly and Jeremy Wilson, who have expertise that is advising on the Groups EHS directly relevant to the challenges that we face, and the policies and performance.
Directors believe that the performance of the Board has improved over the year.
There was strong alignment on the page 86 revised strategy and the specific actions required to execute it, which are reflected in the 2015 Board objectives set out on page 74.
As a result of the exercise, amongst other things, the Board agreed to review the annual number of Board Remuneration Committee meetings, address the process around documentation JEREMY WILSON, CHAIR OF provided to the Board, and consider further mechanisms THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE to increase the interaction between the Board and top Responsible for determining and management.
A full description of the review is on page 73. agreeing the Executive Directors remuneration policy.
page 88 Simon R Thompson Chairman 10 February 2015 www.
com 43 Strategic Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 SIMON THOMPSON 1 2 3 CHAIRMAN Simon Thompson age 55, British was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2011 and as non-executive Chairman in January 2012.
Simon brings extensive international investment banking and natural resources experience, especially in Africa.
Simon held investment banking roles before he joined the Anglo American Group in 1995, where he held a number of senior positions and was an Executive Director of Anglo American plc from 2005 to 2007.
Committee membership Nominations Chair, Remuneration and EHS Committees.
4 5 6 Other directorships and offices Simon is a non-executive Director of Sandvik AB Sweden, Amec Foster Wheeler plc UK and Rio Tinto plc UK and Rio Tinto Limited Australia.
2 AIDAN HEAVEY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Aidan Heavey age 61, Irish is the founder of Tullow Oil and has been Chief Executive Officer since 1985.
He has played a key role in Tullows development as a leading independent oil and gas exploration and production group.
Other directorships and offices Aidan is a director of Traidlinks, an Irish- 7 8 9 based charity established to develop and promote enterprise and diminish poverty in the developing world, particularly in Africa.
He is a member of the UCD Michael Smurfit Graduate Business School Advisory Board, Dublin.
3 IAN SPRINGETT CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Ian Springett, age 57, British a Chartered Accountant, was appointed to the Board of Directors in 2008.
Prior to joining Tullow Ian worked at BP for 23 years where he gained extensive international oil and gas experience.
Ian held a number of senior positions at BP, including Vice President of BP Finance and US CFO: and served 10 11 12 as a Business Unit Leader in Alaska.
4 GRAHAM MARTIN EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & COMPANY SECRETARY Graham Martin age 60, British is a solicitor admitted in England and Wales and joined Tullow as Legal and Commercial Director in 1997.
Graham served as Tullows General Counsel from 2004 to 2013 and has over 30 years experience in international corporate and energy transactions.
He was appointed Company Secretary in 2008.
44 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 8 11 PAUL McDADE TUTU AGYARE JEREMY WILSON CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Paul McDade age 51, British was Tutu Agyare age 52, Ghanaian was Jeremy Wilson age 50, British was appointed to the Board of Directors in appointed as a non-executive Director in appointed as a non-executive Director in 2006 having joined Tullow in 2001.
He is currently a Managing October 2013 following a 26-year career was appointed Chief Operating Officer Partner at Nubuke Investments, an asset at J. P. Morgan where he held a number following the Energy Africa acquisition in management firm focused solely on Africa, of senior positions, most recently Vice 2004, having previously managed Tullows which he founded in 2007.
Previously, he Chairman of the Energy Group.
An engineer with over had a 21-year career with UBS Investment Committee membership 25 years experience, Paul has worked in Bank, holding a number of senior positions, Remuneration Chair and various operational, commercial and most recently as the Head of European Audit Committees.
management roles with Conoco, Lasmo Emerging Markets, and served on the Other directorships and offices and ERC.
He has broad international Board of Directors.
Jeremy is a non-executive Director experience having worked in the UK North Committee membership of John Wood Group PLC UK.
Sea, Latin America, Africa and South East Audit, Nominations and Asia and holds degrees in Civil Engineering Remuneration Committees.
MIKE DALY Other directorships and offices NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Committee membership Tutu is a director of the Nubuke Mike Daly age 60, British was appointed EHS Committee.
Foundation, a Ghanaian-based cultural as a non-executive Director in June 2014 and educational foundation.
following a 28 year career at BP where 6 ANGUS McCOSS he held a number of senior roles.
Most EXPLORATION DIRECTOR 9 recently, he was Executive Vice President STEVE LUCAS Angus McCoss age 53, British was Exploration, and a member of BPs Group NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR appointed to the Board of Directors in Executive team until January 2014.
Steve Lucas age 60, British was appointed 2006 following 21 years of wide-ranging as a non-executive Director in March 2012.
Committee membership exploration experience, working primarily A Chartered Accountant, Steve was Finance Audit and EHS Committees.
with Shell in Africa, Europe, China, South Director at National Grid plc from 2002 to America and the Middle East.
Angus held Other directorships and offices 2010 and previously worked for 11 years at a number of senior positions at Shell, Mike is a member of the World Economic Royal Dutch Shell and for six years at BG including Regional Vice President of Forums Global Agenda Council on the Group, latterly as Group Treasurer.
Exploration for the Americas and General Arctic, an advisory Board member of the Manager of Exploration in Nigeria.
Committee membership British Geological Survey and a visiting He holds a PhD in Structural Geology.
Audit Chair, Nominations and professor at the University of Oxford.
Other directorships and offices Angus is a non-executive Director of Other directorships and offices Ikon Science Limited and a member of Steve is a non-executive Director of the Advisory Board of the industry-backed Acacia Mining plc UK.
Energy and Geoscience Institute of the University of Utah.
10 ANNE DRINKWATER NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 7 ANN GRANT Anne Drinkwater age 59, British was SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR appointed as a non-executive Director in Ann Grant age 66, British was appointed July 2012 after a long career at BP where as a non-executive Director in May 2008 and she held a number of senior business and Senior Independent Director in April 2014. operations positions including President Most recently, Ann was Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BP Canada Africa at Standard Chartered Bank from Energy Company, President of BP 2005 to 2014.
Her earlier career was as Indonesia and Managing Director of a British Diplomat, from 1971 to 2005.
From 1998 she worked at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London as Committee membership Director for Africa and the Commonwealth, EHS Chair, Audit and and from 2000 to 2005 was British High Remuneration Committees.
Other directorships and offices Committee membership Anne is a non-executive Director of Audit and Nominations Committees.
Other directorships and offices Ann is a Board member of the Overseas Development Institute and a council member of the London School of Hygiene MORE INFORMATION and Tropical Medicine and the Rift Valley Audit Committee 79 Institute.
She also chairs the Serious Music Trust.
Nominations Committee 84 EHS Committee 86 Remuneration Committee 88 www.
