Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE APPLYING THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code Leadership Tullow Oil plc is required, under the UK Listing Rules, to The long-term success of the Company is the collective comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code responsibility of the Board.
published by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in The role of the Board September 2012, for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation A copy of the Code is available at www.
and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and This corporate governance report describes how the long-term shareholder value.
It meets these aims through Company has applied the principles and standards set out in setting the Groups strategy and ensuring that the necessary the Code during the year and sets out our activities relating resources are available to achieve the agreed strategic goals.
to the main sections of the Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, The Board also sets the Companys key policies and reviews Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with management and financial performance.
operates within a framework of controls and these clear procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities The Company is also required to disclose whether it has allow risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
These complied with the more detailed provisions of the Code are underpinned by the Boards work to set the Groups during the year and, to the extent it has not done so, to core values and standards of business conduct and ensure explain any deviations from them.
It is the Boards view that that these, together with the Groups obligations to its the Company has fully complied with all of the provisions of stakeholders, are widely understood across all its activities.
the Code during the year ended 31 December 2014.
Board meetings and visits In 2014, the FRC published a revised UK Corporate The Board and its Committees deal with its core activities Governance Code the New Code which applies to financial in planned meetings throughout the year.
Matters which reporting periods commencing later than 1 October 2014. require decisions outside the scheduled meetings are dealt The New Code contains numerous new provisions, including: with through additional ad hoc meetings and conference requiring companies to make greater disclosures of their calls.
During 2014, the Board met eight times.
A programme strategic approach to risk and risk management: make a of strategy presentations covering a wide number of statement about the long-term viability and prospects of the operational and other issues is made to the Board in company: ensure that remuneration policies are designed to June each year.
During the year, each of the Regional deliver long-term benefits to the company and include Vice Presidents and other heads of functions presented measures for claw-back on variable pay: and, in cases where a strategic overview of their respective area to the Board a significant proportion of shareholders oppose any for endorsement.
In particular, the Board reviewed and particular measure, to explain the actions the company endorsed non-technical risk strategies for its major areas intends to take to understand the reasons for this opposition.
Tullow believes that its current policies and practices are The Board normally holds one Board meeting at a principal already largely compliant with the provisions of the New overseas office of the Group.
These meetings ensure that the Code.
We expect to confirm compliance with the New Code Board has a clear knowledge of the Companys overseas in the next Annual Report.
During the trip, Senior Management from across the Group present to the Board and have an opportunity to meet its members informally.
In addition, the Board meets a broad cross-section of staff, assesses Senior Managers and reviews in depth operational matters and, in particular, matters relating to non-technical risks.
In March 2014, the Board travelled to Nairobi for a visit that was postponed from October 2013.
70 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent Attendance at meetings contact with the other Directors in addition to the regular The attendance of Directors at the eight scheduled meetings Board meetings.
This ensures that all members of the Board of the Board held during 2014 was as follows: have an opportunity to discuss any issues of concern and to No.
of meetings attended be fully briefed on the Groups operations.
Director out of a total possible Tutu Agyare 8 8 Matters reserved The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that 1 David Bamford 2 3 can only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed 2 by the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the Mike Daly 5 5 consideration and approval of: Anne Drinkwater 8 8 The Groups overall strategy: Ann Grant 8 8 Financial Statements and dividend policy: Aidan Heavey 8 8 Borrowings and treasury policy: Material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, Steve Lucas 8 8 major capital expenditure projects and budgets: Graham Martin 8 8 Entry into new countries: Risk management and internal controls supported Angus McCoss 8 8 by the Audit Committee : Paul McDade 8 8 Succession planning and appointments supported by the Nominations Committee : Ian Springett 8 8 The Groups corporate governance and compliance Simon Thompson 8 8 arrangements: and Jeremy Wilson 8 8 Corporate policies.
Summary of the Boards work in the year 1.
David Bamford resigned from the Board on 30 April 2014.
During 2014, the Board considered all relevant 2.
Mike Daly was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect matters within its remit, with a particular focus on the from 1 June 2014. following issues: Notes: In addition to the Board members, a number of Senior Managers Strategy and resource allocation: attend relevant sections of Board meetings by invitation.
Non-technical risks in major areas of operation: Portfolio management: Division of responsibilities The Chairman, Simon Thompson, is primarily responsible for Finance and treasury: the effective working of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive Governance and compliance: Officer, Aidan Heavey, is responsible for the operational Assurance, risk and internal audit: and management of the business, for developing strategy in Organisational design, capacity and consultation with the Board and for implementation of the succession planning.
This separation of responsibilities is clearly defined and agreed by the Board.
com 71 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED The Chairman Delegated authorities The Chairman leads the Board, setting the agenda and Board Committees ensuring that the meetings provide adequate time for The Board has delegated matters to four Committees: discussion.
From the time of his appointment as Chairman Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and EHS and the Board on 1 January 2012, Simon Thompson met the independence is satisfied that the Committees have sufficient resources criteria set out in the Code and continues to do so.
to carry out their duties effectively.
Their terms of reference are reviewed and approved annually by the Board and the Non-executive Directors respective Committee chairmen report on their activities at The non-executive Directors have a broad range of business the next Board meeting.
Details of Committee membership, and commercial experience.
They provide independent and roles and work are set out later in this report: the Audit constructive challenge to the Executive Management and Committee on page 79, the Nominations Committee on page monitor the performance of the management team in 84, the EHS Committee on page 86 and the Remuneration delivering the agreed objectives and targets.
At the end Committee on page 88. of every scheduled Board meeting, the Chairman holds a discussion with the non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors and Executive Committee Executive Directors.
These are supplemented by informal In January 2014, a new Executive Committee was formed meetings between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer comprising the Executive Directors and 10 senior regional and the non-executive Directors.
It meets weekly and has been established to assist the Executive Directors in running The non-executive Directors receive regular briefings on the Group in various ways, including managing the delivery of the more technical and operational aspects of the Groups the approved budget and business plan, ensuring effective activities.
These include major offshore development integration and driving cost and organisational efficiency projects e. g. TEN and our extensive exploration throughout the business.
Non-executive Directors with particular expertise in these areas also meet the Chief Operating Individual delegations Officer and the Exploration Director to discuss operations In addition to delegating certain matters to Board in more detail.
Committees, the Board has also delegated certain operational and management matters to the Executive Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of Directors.
In line with ICSA guidance, the Board approved three years, which may, subject to satisfactory performance formal terms of reference for the committee of Executive and re-election by shareholders, be extended by mutual Directors in December 2014. agreement.
Effectiveness Senior Independent Director Composition of the Board The Senior Independent Director, Ann Grant, is available to The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Chief meet shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be Executive Officer, four other Executive Directors and resolved through discussion with the Chairman, Chief six independent non-executive Directors.
Their biographical Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or for matters details are set out on pages 44 and 45. where such contact would be inappropriate.
During the year, she met with the other non-executive Directors without the Chairman to discuss the Chairmans performance.
2014 BOARD TIME BOARD TENURE Strategy and stakeholder management 25.0% Less than 1 year 1 Financial management 24.0% 1 to 5 years 5 Safety, sustainability and external affairs 14.0% 5 to 10 years 4 Development and operations 11.0% Greater than 10 years 2 Exploration and appraisal 12.0% Governance and risk management 14.0% 72 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors believe that the Board and its Committees consist Information and support of Directors with an appropriate balance of skills, experience, Independent advice independence and diversity of background to enable them to Directors have access to independent professional advice, discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
at the Companys expense, on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
The composition of the Board did not change during the course of 2014 except for the resignation of David Bamford The Company Secretary on 30 April 2014 and the appointment of Mike Daly as a The Company Secretary is Graham Martin, who is also an non-executive Director with effect from 1 June 2014.
He is responsible for ensuring compliance with all Board procedures and for providing advice to Independence Directors when required.
This combined role is regularly The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors reviewed.
The Company Secretary is supported by a Deputy to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board Company Secretary who provides company secretarial is fully satisfied that Ann Grant demonstrates complete services to the Board and the Group.
The Deputy Company independence and robustness of character and judgement Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit, Nominations and in her capacity as Senior Independent Director.
The Remuneration Committees and has direct access to the Board is of the view that no individual or group of individuals Chairs of these Committees.
Board evaluation Appointments to the Board Following the independent and interview-driven Board The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and evaluation conducted by Lintstock Ltd in 2013, in 2014 composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Company undertook an internal evaluation of the the Board about any changes required.
As part of the performance of the Board, facilitated by Lintstock.
The first appointments process, candidates disclose any other stage of the review involved the Directors completing significant time commitments they may have and are questionnaires which had been prepared by Lintstock with required to inform the Board of any subsequent changes.
input from the Chairman and Company Secretary.
The questionnaires were designed to the specific circumstances Commitment of the Company and, in particular, to pick up on themes All Directors have disclosed their other significant identified in the 2013 exercise, including the annual planning commitments and confirmed that they have sufficient cycle, the executive contribution to debates and the review of time to discharge their duties effectively.
Training and development needs The results of the survey determined that the performance Induction and composition of the Board and its Committees were good All new Directors receive an induction programme when they and found a high degree of alignment within the Board on join the Board.
This reflects their background, experience the key strategic priorities in the year to come.
The Board and knowledge and their understanding of the upstream oil determined that its allocation of time and priorities was industry and Tullow in particular.
The programme includes broadly appropriate and that the discussion at Board one-to-one meetings with Senior Management, functional meetings displayed a good balance of support and challenge and Business Unit heads and, where appropriate, visits to of management exercised by the non-executive Directors.
the Groups principal offices and operations.
New Directors The review noted an improvement in the timeliness of also receive an overview of their duties, corporate receiving background materials in advance of meetings.
governance policies and Board processes.
In addition, the review noted the particular focus of the Board on the areas of risk management, internal controls and Familiarisation and development safety, sustainability & external affairs SSEA matters.
All members of the Board have access to appropriate Finally, the review noted that the Board had reviewed and professional development courses to support them in would continue to review diversity matters and succession meeting their obligations and duties.
During the year, planning for Executive Directors and Senior Management.
Directors attended external seminars on relevant topics The Boards focus on diversity matters in 2015 is explained relating to the business.
They also receive ongoing briefings further on page 85. on current developments, including updates on governance and regulatory issues.
com 73 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED A significant majority of Board members felt that the Boards performance had improved since the last review.
2014 Board objectives 2014 Performance 2015 Board objectives As a result of the exercise, amongst other things, the Board Regularly review strategy in the light The strategy was articulated in various presentations of the 2013 full year Regularly review strategy in light of market, Strategy and agreed to review the annual number of Board meetings, of social, economic and political results and the 2014 half year results to the market and shareholders and political and socio-economic developments execution address the process around documentation provided to the was debated and reaffirmed by the Board at a mid-year review.
Ensure adequate Deliver the TEN Project on time and on budget Board and consider further mechanisms to increase the time is allocated to monitoring: In response to the external environment, including the recent drop in oil Progress development plans for Kenya Uganda interaction between the Board and top management.
prices, the Board revised the strategy, reducing exposure to high-risk Reduce expenditure and ensure high-grading of Execution of the strategy: exploration in the near-term and focusing the Companys resources on its The Board objectives for 2015, set out to the right, reflect exploration opportunities Effectiveness of resource allocation: production and development assets in West Africa and its major projects in the action plan and priorities agreed by all the Directors Reduce costs, maximise cash flow from East Africa.
to exploration and appraisal activities: as part of the 2014 Board evaluation.
operations and manage business within prudent Portfolio management: and At each Board meeting, there have been regular standing items on the funding constraints execution of the strategy, the effectiveness of resource allocation to exploration Major capital projects.
It is envisaged that the Board will work with Lintstock in and appraisal activities, portfolio management and major capital projects.
2015 to conduct another internal review next year to follow The Board reviewed its 12 month rolling agenda throughout the year to ensure up on the issues raised in this years process.
The review that time was allocated appropriately.
content for each subsequent evaluation is designed to build Continue to ensure that appropriate systems The organisational design of the merged EHS and External Affairs functions Continue to strengthen processes for identification, upon learning gained in the previous year.
This ensures Risk and processes exist to identify, monitor and into the SSEA function, was refined throughout the year with significant management and assurance of financial, technical that the recommendations agreed in the review are management capabilities added.
and non-technical risks, with a particular focus on: manage evolving risks, with a particular implemented and that year-on-year progress is measured.
focus on: During 2014, the Board also formalised the process for receiving periodic Safety, health and environment: Lintstock have no other connection to the Company.
reports on political risks in the Companys areas of operation.
Reserves and resources management: Political risk evaluation: The Board had numerous sessions on safety, security and human rights.
Board objectives Capital project management: Community relations and social We remain confident that the Board and the wider The Board EHS Committee met regularly to monitor and improve process Community relations and social performance: performance: safety, incident management and the measurement of EHS performance.
leadership team have the experience and track record to Government relations: Security and human rights: and meet the Companys aims of delivering long-term growth The Board regularly engaged with internal audit, the financial risk committee Liquidity management: and EHS, particularly process safety.
and others to assess and monitor the Companys approach to risks throughout and successfully manage the challenges of an expanding Improve Performance Management.
The Board sets its specific future SAP was implemented throughout most of Tullows Business Units, resulting objectives at the end of each year and they reflect the in greater cost accountability and better traceability of payments and contract particular focus of the Company in the year ahead.
Progress against each objective is tracked by the Company Secretary and reviewed with the Chairman at the mid-year point.
Governance Maintain and enhance Tullows The Compliance function continued work to improve compliance with Tullows Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and culture and values Code of Business Conduct, holding regular sessions with staff and contractors values throughout the re-shaping of the business and values The following table shows how the Board performed to highlight the importance of Tullows culture and values.
Reinforce compliance with Tullows Update the Code of Business Conduct to reflect against the 2014 objectives and also details the priorities Code of Business Conduct Provisions allowing for anonymous reporting of code violations, including trends and best practices and reinforce and rolling agenda items the Board will focus on in 2015.
compliance with it Continue to strengthen internal controls and enhance whistleblowing facilities Re-election All Directors seek re-election every year and accordingly Continue to build organisational capacity We continued to fill some key roles in 2014, attracting high-calibre candidates Redesign, streamline and simplify Organisational all Directors will stand for re-election in 2015 with the without compromising Tullows culture from other companies, demonstrating the appropriateness and flexibility of the organisational structure to deliver capacity reward packages we are able to offer.
revised strategy exception of Mike Daly who is standing for election for Build awareness of non-technical risk the first time, since his appointment as a non-executive management within line management The SSEA function was restructured, adding significant capabilities to the Continue to strengthen Human and the technical functions team and improving integration on SSEA issues with the Business Units and Resource function Director on 1 June 2014.
The Board has set out in the technical functions.
Notice of Annual General Meeting its reasons for Further strengthen the Human Continue to strengthen Commercial function Resources function A new Head of Commercial joined Tullow and will be working with the Board supporting the election and re-election as applicable of Progress senior executive development plans and Senior Management to strengthen the Commercial function further each of the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Strengthen the Sustainability and and strengthen succession planning for in 2015.
External Affairs function key positions Senior Executive development and succession plans are regularly kept under Strengthen the Commercial function Further increase diversity of talent pipeline review, particularly at times when vacancies arise in key roles.
Continue to monitor senior executive The leadership team of the Human Resources function was restructured with development to provide succession significant capabilities added.
for all key functions However, improvements to diversity figures in 2014 were not in line with Increase the diversity of the expectations and the Board, on the recommendation of the Nominations management team Committee, will revisit the Diversity Policy in early 2015 with a view to mapping out diversity goals and a path to achieving them.
Enhance Board-level engagement with Board level interaction with employees continued in 2014 at various functions.
Ensure that shareholders, staff and other major Stakeholder shareholders, politicians, CSOs and The Board visited Kenya in March during which they held numerous staff stakeholders understand and are aligned with engagement other stakeholders engagement events and participated in a field visit.
the revised strategy Arrange Board visit to Kenya The Chairman represented the Company at various events and Board Further enhance engagement with governments members met with shareholders and shareholder bodies to continue to and Civil Society Organisations in our principal discuss Tullows governance and remuneration policies.
countries of operation 74 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 Board objectives 2014 Performance 2015 Board objectives Regularly review strategy in the light The strategy was articulated in various presentations of the 2013 full year Regularly review strategy in light of market, Strategy and of social, economic and political results and the 2014 half year results to the market and shareholders and political and socio-economic developments execution was debated and reaffirmed by the Board at a mid-year review.
Ensure adequate Deliver the TEN Project on time and on budget time is allocated to monitoring: In response to the external environment, including the recent drop in oil Progress development plans for Kenya Uganda prices, the Board revised the strategy, reducing exposure to high-risk Reduce expenditure and ensure high-grading of Execution of the strategy: exploration in the near-term and focusing the Companys resources on its exploration opportunities Effectiveness of resource allocation: production and development assets in West Africa and its major projects in Reduce costs, maximise cash flow from East Africa.
to exploration and appraisal activities: operations and manage business within prudent Portfolio management: and At each Board meeting, there have been regular standing items on the funding constraints execution of the strategy, the effectiveness of resource allocation to exploration Major capital projects.
and appraisal activities, portfolio management and major capital projects.
The Board reviewed its 12 month rolling agenda throughout the year to ensure that time was allocated appropriately.
Continue to ensure that appropriate systems The organisational design of the merged EHS and External Affairs functions Continue to strengthen processes for identification, Risk and processes exist to identify, monitor and into the SSEA function, was refined throughout the year with significant management and assurance of financial, technical management capabilities added.
and non-technical risks, with a particular focus on: manage evolving risks, with a particular focus on: During 2014, the Board also formalised the process for receiving periodic Safety, health and environment: reports on political risks in the Companys areas of operation.
Capital project management: Community relations and social The Board EHS Committee met regularly to monitor and improve process Community relations and social performance: performance: safety, incident management and the measurement of EHS performance.
Government relations: Security and human rights: and The Board regularly engaged with internal audit, the financial risk committee Liquidity management: and EHS, particularly process safety.
and others to assess and monitor the Companys approach to risks throughout Improve Performance Management.
SAP was implemented throughout most of Tullows Business Units, resulting in greater cost accountability and better traceability of payments and contract compliance and performance.
Governance Maintain and enhance Tullows The Compliance function continued work to improve compliance with Tullows Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and culture and values Code of Business Conduct, holding regular sessions with staff and contractors values throughout the re-shaping of the business and values to highlight the importance of Tullows culture and values.
Reinforce compliance with Tullows Update the Code of Business Conduct to reflect Code of Business Conduct Provisions allowing for anonymous reporting of code violations, including trends and best practices and reinforce Safecall, were improved.
compliance with it Continue to strengthen internal controls and enhance whistleblowing facilities Continue to build organisational capacity We continued to fill some key roles in 2014, attracting high-calibre candidates Redesign, streamline and simplify Organisational without compromising Tullows culture from other companies, demonstrating the appropriateness and flexibility of the organisational structure to deliver capacity reward packages we are able to offer.
revised strategy Build awareness of non-technical risk management within line management The SSEA function was restructured, adding significant capabilities to the Continue to strengthen Human and the technical functions team and improving integration on SSEA issues with the Business Units and Resource function technical functions.
Further strengthen the Human Continue to strengthen Commercial function Resources function A new Head of Commercial joined Tullow and will be working with the Board Progress senior executive development plans and Senior Management to strengthen the Commercial function further Strengthen the Sustainability and and strengthen succession planning for in 2015.
com 75 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED Meetings with Board members RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Outside these formal events, institutional shareholders can Communication and dialogue meet the Chairman to discuss any issues and concerns in Exploration and production companies have faced another relation to the Groups governance and strategy.
Oil companies were affected by falling oil year, the Chairman held a number of such meetings.
prices and the sector as a whole experienced some negative Non-executive Directors are also available to attend shareholder sentiment.
meetings with major shareholders if requested to do so.
Tullow recognises that, in these demanding times, it is The Board is kept in touch with market developments important to continue to maintain open and transparent following major operational announcements through regular communication with shareholders and potential investors.
summaries from the Investor Relations team.
They also We do this through meetings, presentations, investor provide a monthly Board Report which includes shareholder conferences and ad hoc events with institutional investors analysis, shareholder feedback and Tullows performance and sell-side analysts.
Over the year, the Investor Relations against our peers.
team and Senior Management met some 300 institutions and the Group participated in 23 investor conferences and Keeping shareholders informed roadshows around the world.
Executive Directors and Senior We ensure shareholders can access details of the Groups Management met institutional investors in the UK, Europe, results and other news releases through the London Stock Ghana, Asia Pacific, South Africa and North America.
In addition, these news releases are published on the Media and Investor Relations Formal presentations and roadshows sections of the Groups website: www.
Updates Following the success of the inaugural Investor Relations and details of the status of exploration and development roadshow in Asia Pacific in 2013, Tullow completed a second programmes are also available on the website and via the roadshow in October 2014.
Meetings were held with social media service Twitter: www.
institutional investors in Singapore, Hong Kong and Sydney Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to and generated a high level of interest in all three cities.
email news updates by registering online on the website.
Tullows third Ghana Investor Forum took place in May 2014 in Accra.
The event gave key institutional shareholders the chance to hear presentations and question the Executive and Senior Managers from the Ghana Business Unit.
The Group recognises the importance of continued shareholder engagement with our 9,000 Ghanaian shareholders, and Tullows Head of Media Relations also gave a Facts Behind the Figures presentation to investors and brokers at the 2015 KEY SHAREHOLDER Ghana Stock Exchange in October.
Also, in keeping with past ENGAGEMENTS practices, a similar shareholder meeting was held in Dublin.
January Trading statement and operational Update A number of other opportunities for investors to meet Senior Managers face-to-face were provided during the year.
These February included a successful Capital Markets Day CMD held in Full Year Results June 2014 in London.
Over 100 sell-side and buy-side analysts and investors attended in person and the March presentations were also covered in a live webcast which Full Year Results roadshows commence generated further interest.
The presentations from a range of members of Tullows senior management team April demonstrated the depth of skills and leadership in the SRI roadshow Group.
They focused on articulating our strategy, our core Interim Management Statement West African business, future potential of East Africa and Annual General Meeting highlighted our strong funding position.
July Trading statement and operational Update Tullow participated in a number of calls with socially Half Year Results responsible investors SRI in the fourth quarter of 2014.
These meetings provided an opportunity to discuss topics September including health and safety, the environment, corporate Half Year Results roadshows commence governance, bribery and corruption, country and political risk Asia-Pacific roadshow and other operational matters.
The calls were hosted by our new Vice President of SSEA.
Tullow plans to complete a November European SRI roadshow in April 2015.
Interim Management Statement 76 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The number of visitors to the corporate website increased in Another important way we keep shareholders informed 2014, with 437,000 unique visitors and over 2.3 million page is through regular formal reporting.
The Group continually looks for ways to improve how Responsibility CR Report was issued in May 2014 and is we use online channels to communicate with our available on the corporate website.
As part of this work, during 2014, a new of our commitment to transparency, we provide details in website has been developed and is planned to launch in the the CR report of our payments to governments.
Tullow also first half of 2015.
Among the improvements, the new site will published additional country reports for Kenya and Ghana provide a consistent experience for all desktop, tablet and in 2014, as well as a dedicated transparency report.
Increasing communication with bond holders We are also responding to the growing use of social media In April 2014, Tullow issued its second Corporate Bond.
The Group has circa 14,000 followers on its Following a roadshow in the UK and the US, the Group priced corporate Twitter account, circa 10,400 on Facebook, circa its offering of $650 million of 6.25% Senior Notes due in 51,900 LinkedIn accounts and the films provided on YouTube 2022.
Since the issue of the corporate bonds, the IR and have received circa 79,100 views.
We continue to operate our Group Finance teams have increased their engagement with Investor Relations and Media App that can be downloaded to our bond investors through a number of High Yield tablet and smartphone devices.
This enables a wider audience conferences and one-on-one meetings throughout the year.
to view results announcements, presentations, videos, webcasts and images while on the move.
437,000 UNIQUE VISITS IN 2014 IR APP Financial results, events, corporate reports, webcasts Tullows Investor Relations and Media app and fact books are all stored in the Investor Relations for tablets and smartphones enables easy section of our website www.
access to a suite of investor materials.
2014 Annual Report and Accounts Scan the QR code below to find out more www.
com reports and download the app.
com 77 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED Accountability of expenditure with an annual budget approved by the Board.
This report provides shareholders with a clear assessment Actual results are reported against budget on a monthly of the Groups position and prospects supplemented, as basis.
Revised financial forecasts for the year and financial required, by other periodic financial and trading statements.
projections for future years are regularly prepared.
The Boards arrangements for the application of risk The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness of management and internal control principles are detailed the Groups risk management activities and internal control below.
The Board has delegated oversight of the relationship processes.
It recognises that any system of internal control with the Groups external auditors to the Audit Committee.
can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Their work is outlined in the Audit Committee report on that material financial irregularities will be detected or page 79. that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
However, the Boards objective is to ensure that Going concern Tullow has appropriate systems in place for the identification The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes The Board receives reports from Business Unit and in commodity prices, different production rates from the corporate teams throughout the year to enable it to assess, Groups producing assets and delays to development on an ongoing basis, the effectiveness of the system of projects.
In addition to the Groups operating cash flows, internal controls and risk management.
portfolio management opportunities are reviewed to During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed a potentially enhance the financial capability and flexibility number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to the of the Group.
In the currently low commodity price Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
environment, the Group has taken appropriate action to The Board has confirmed that, through its Audit Committee, it reduce its cost base and had $2.4 billion of debt liquidity has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal headroom at the end of 2014.
The Groups forecast, taking financial, operational and compliance controls and risk into account reasonably possible changes and risks as management, and considers that the system of internal described above, show that the Group will be able to operate controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and within its current debt facilities and have sufficient financial up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
headroom for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Notwithstanding our Remuneration forecasts of sufficient liquidity headroom through to midThe Board has delegated responsibility for agreeing the 2016 when first oil from TEN is expected, there remains a remuneration policy for the Chairman, Chief Executive risk, given the volatility of the oil price environment, that the Officer, Executive Directors and senior executives to the Group could become technically non-compliant with one of Remuneration Committee.
Its role and activities are set out its financial covenant ratios in the first half of 2016.
To in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 88. mitigate this risk, we will continue to monitor our cash flow projections and, if necessary, take appropriate action with Constructive use of the AGM the support of our long-term banking relationships well in At the AGM held on 30 April 2014, shareholders received advance of this time.
presentations setting out the key developments in the business and put questions to the Chairman, the Chairmen Internal controls of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the and other members of the Board.
In recognition of the fact Groups systems of internal control, which are designed to that Tullow continues to have a significant shareholder base safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the in Ireland, a business presentation was held in Dublin on reliability of financial information for both internal use and 1 May 2014 following the AGM.
external publication and to comply with the Turnbull Committee guidance.
The Groups internal control A poll was used to vote for all resolutions at the 2014 AGM, procedures require technical, financial and Board approval and the final results which included all votes cast for, for all projects.
All major expenditures require Senior against and those withheld were announced via the London Management approval at the appropriate stages of each Stock Exchange and on the Companys corporate website.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working reporting system covering both technical progress of days before the meeting.
projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Risk On behalf of the Board assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each Business Unit documents its strategic objectives and the significant risks in achieving them and Simon R Thompson regularly reports on progress against these objectives.
Key Chairman risks are also reported monthly to the Board.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and planning system for all items 10 February 2015 78 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
