Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Dear Shareholder, Governance highlights The Board and I are committed to promoting My view is that good governance underpins good governance throughout UBM and good performance, and I believe we should Recruitment and demonstrate this commitment by the way set ourselves the highest standards.
In appointment of new in which we conduct our business and carry particular, this means creating a culture CEO out our responsibilities.
in the boardroom of respect, challenge, Recruitment and appointment of two openness and trust.
new independent We continue to support the drive to improve Non-Executive Directors transparency and accountability which is Doing Business at UBM being introduced through regulatory change.
Code of Business Conduct launched As UBMs shares are listed on the London Establishment of Dame Helen Alexander Disclosure Committee Stock Exchange, we are subject to the Chairman Approval of new Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Diversity Policy which Authority which encompass the UK sets out the Boards Corporate Governance Code the Code.
intention to increase the proportion of female In this review we explain how the Board applies the Directors up to 30% In 2014, we were required to measure principles of the Code in a way that contributes to by the end of 2015 the effectiveness of its operation.
We complied with compliance against the Code as published Board succession all provisions of Section 1 of the Code during 2014, in 2012: this can be found on the website planning undertaken with the following exceptions: within a clear framework of the Financial Reporting Council at The period from 1 March 2014 to 5 May 2014 www.
when I took the role of Executive Chairman, to provide executive leadership between David Levins departure and Tim Cobbolds arrival as CEO Karen Thomson left the Board on 31 March 2014 and was not replaced until Mary McDowell joined us on 1 August.
During this period the Remuneration Committee met once and comprised two independent Non-Executive Directors and myself as Chairman Our policies and procedures continue to be refined and developed, and to this end, we have introduced our Code of Business Conduct, Doing Business at UBM this year which draws together our existing business conduct policies such as anti-bribery, anti-malpractice and information security.
It seeks to provide clarity on the way we engage with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
E-learning modules are being rolled out Groupwide, starting with an anti-bribery module.
The new policy is further underpinned by the UBM Commitments programme which seeks to embed our values and to promote behaviours through active engagement with everyone who works at UBM.
44 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Board Board and Committee Independent Chairman Executive Directors structure Non-Executive Directors The Board has overall responsibility to shareholders for the management Audit Committee and governance of UBM.
The primary Chairman function of the Board is to set and Non-Executive Directors oversee the effective implementation of the Groups strategy.
Nomination Committee Chairman The Board is assisted in fulfilling its Non-Executive Directors responsibilities by three principal Committees: the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committees.
The Executive Chairman Committee, established in 2012, provides Non-Executive Directors advice to the Board on operational and strategic decisions, and reviews areas such as budget and risk in relation to the Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Group as a whole.
A Disclosure Committee, CEO CEO to determine the disclosure treatment of CFO CFO material information, was established in Divisional CEOs Company Secretary 2014.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Company Secretary Director of Communications Nomination and Remuneration Committees Global EVP, GEM Head of Investor Relations may be viewed on UBMs website Group CIO www.
com and copies can be obtained Group HR Director from the Company Secretary, who acts as secretary to all the Board Committees.
UBM Board experience framework Analogous Finance Year Sector Digital Emerging Sitting Capital Operational Consumer People and Nationality Appointed Content Plc NED Technology US Markets Executive Markets experience marketing Transformation Helen Alexander British 2012 Chair Tim Cobbold British 2014 CEO Robert Gray American 2009 CFO Jonathan Newcomb American 2001 Non-Executive Director Pradeep Kar Indian 2006 Non-Executive Director Alan Gillespie Senior Independent British 2008 Director Terry Neill British 2009 Non-Executive Director Irish Greg Lock British 2010 Non-Executive Director John McConnell Australian 2014 Non-Executive Director Mary McDowell American 2014 Non-Executive Director UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement continued John McConnell was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Directors appointments are reviewed every three January 2014.
David Levin and Karen Thomson stepped down years.
All Directors appointments are subject to annual re-election from the Board in March 2014.
Tim Cobbold joined the Board by shareholders.
as CEO in May 2014 and Mary McDowell was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in August 2014.
More information about the knowledge, skills and experience of our Board can be found in their individual biographies on pages The Board benefits from a wide range of experience of its Non- 40 and 41 and in the experience framework on page 45.
Executive Directors: their tenure ranges from seven months to over 13 years as shown on page 45.
We consider that clarity of the respective roles and responsibilities of Board members is an important element in enabling the Board We regularly review the independence of our Non-Executive to function effectively.
The key relationship is that of the Chairman Directors, with primary regard to the personal qualities and CEO and, in accordance with the Code, a clear written division demonstrated by each Director, particularly their judgement of their respective roles exists and has been approved by the Board.
and thinking and the level of engagement and challenge that they provide in Board and Committee discussions.
We also A process is in place to address possible conflicts of interest of take account of the factors specifically identified in section B.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts that arise of the Code as potentially relevant in determining independence.
are required to be disclosed at the next Board meeting for We consider all our Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
consideration and, if appropriate, approved by relevant Board members.
No conflicts of interest were disclosed during 2014.
Jonathan Newcomb has served on the Board for over 13 years, having been a Non-Executive Director since September 2001.
As part of our process of refreshing Committee Membership, Jonathan stepped down as Audit Committee Chairman in March 2014 and was replaced in this role by John McConnell.
We continue to consider that he is independent having taken into account several factors including: the strength of his engagement and challenge in Board discussions: his remuneration, which is not considered excessive in the context of Non-Executive Directors fees paid in FTSE 250 companies: his shareholding is not considered substantial: and his disclosed interests, which are not thought to conflict with his role as a Non-Executive Director.
Roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and CEO Chairman CEO Responsible for the effective running of the Board.
She spends an average Responsible for running the Groups business, within the authority limits of two days per week carrying out her responsibilities, but takes no part in delegated to him by the Board the day-to-day running of the business Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Leading the Board effectively to ensure that there are sufficient meetings, Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial agenda items are appropriate and there is adequate time for discussion objectives Ensuring that Directors are able to contribute fully to Board discussions Recommending an annual budget for Board approval and ensuring its and that their skills are utilised to best effect achievement In conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensuring compliance with Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals the Boards approved procedures and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance Providing a sounding board for the CEO on key business issues Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group Overseeing the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Developing and making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on Committees and individual Directors remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior management Identifying development needs for the Board and Directors and ensuring Chairing the Executive Committee in the day to day running of the Groups that Directors update their skills and knowledge to enable them to carry business out their responsibilities Maintaining contact with major shareholders to understand their issues Leading the communication programme with shareholders and ensuring the and concerns: ensuring that their views are communicated to the Board as timely and accurate disclosure of information to the market a whole Chairing the Nomination Committee and leading the succession planning process 46 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements How the Board operates Several Board meetings were unscheduled in 2014 and called A number of processes are in place that help the Board perform as at short notice in connection with the Advanstar acquisition effectively as possible.
There is a formal schedule of matters to be and rights issue.
Consequently, where Directors were not able to considered by the Board which is reviewed annually.
attend these unscheduled meetings, this was entirely due to prior business commitments.
Non-attendance at any Committee Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the Executive meeting was also due to prior business commitments.
In each Directors, the Executive Committee and to divisional boards under case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board formally documented authorities.
or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided comments directly to the Chairman We have an established agenda of topics to be considered at or Committee Chairman, as appropriate.
Regular updates are provided on UBMs finances, operations, strategy and development.
Standing items include Board meetings are generally held at UBMs London office.
written reports from the CEO, CFO and Company Secretary, and The Board also tries to meet regularly at one of the overseas from Communications and Investor Relations.
The inclusion of a business locations.
In October, the Board visited UBM Americas forward planner in each Board pack provides an overview of these in San Francisco and met with employees and senior management and other matters which are scheduled for discussion over the as well as meeting with entrepreneurs who were developing digital course of the financial year.
capabilities of potential interest to UBM for increasing efficiencies and enhancing the customer experience.
Presentations are made by Executive Directors and by divisional management and other senior executives on specific issues.
Directors may seek independent professional advice in relation to Guidelines have been established for such presentations to ensure their duties if they consider it appropriate.
All Directors have access that the Board receives adequate information and has sufficient to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who has time for debate and challenge.
primary responsibility for informing Directors of general developments which may be relevant to these responsibilities.
Papers for Board and Committee meetings are circulated at least The Company Secretary is not a Board Director.
six days before the relevant meeting to give Directors adequate time to review them before the meeting.
An electronic system for Board performance and evaluation delivering Board and Committee papers is used, improving both 2014: The 2014 evaluation was carried out using an online efficiency of communication and reducing paper usage.
structured questionnaire with feedback provided to Directors in February 2015.
The output of the evaluation will be reported in Management accounts are circulated to Directors on a monthly the 2016 Annual Report.
An external consultancy, Lintstock, basis and other information is distributed between meetings as administered the process and compiled the feedback report.
The Board evaluation questionnaire included specific questions on the acquisition of Advanstar, the rights issue process, the Board discussions are held in an atmosphere of transparency, development of the Events First strategy and the Boards visit openness and mutual respect with adequate time allowed for to the US in October 2014 to review the UBM Americas debate and challenge.
Behaviour and tone in the boardroom is business and its integration plan.
important for issues to be discussed openly and with supportive 2013: Each of the top priorities identified in the evaluation challenge to management.
carried out at the end of 2013 were addressed during the year.
Specifically, the following matters are highlighted: The Board has six scheduled meetings per annum and meetings may be convened at other times as and when necessary: nine Group strategy growing the Events business Board meetings were held during 2014.
Launch of Events First strategy in November 2014 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings in 2014 Succession planning Audit Remuneration Nomination Two new Non-Executive Directors appointed and the new CEO was Board Committee Committee Committee recruited Director 9 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings Revised Diversity Policy published Dame Helen Alexander 9 3 3 5 1 Tim Cobbold 7 of 7 2 of 2 2 of 2 Board processes Robert Gray 9 4 Board agenda restructured so that key items for discussion are dealt Alan Gillespie 8 4 4 with early in each meeting Pradeep Kar 9 3 5 Greg Lock 9 4 3 5 Time allocated after each board meeting for the Chairman and Non- 2 John McConnell 8 4 3 Executive Directors to meet collectively 3 Mary McDowell 6 of 6 1 of 1 2 of 2 Schedule of past decisions maintained and reviewed at each meeting Terry Neill 8 3 5 together with outstanding actions list Jonathan Newcomb 9 4 4 Deep dive post-acquisition reviews scheduled to supplement Audit 4 David Levin 2 of 2 1 of 1 Committee activity 5 Karen Thomson 2 of 2 1 of 1 1 of 1 Commenced review of existing processes on risk management and internal controls in light of changes to UK Code on Corporate Attends by invitation Governance from October 2014 and risk reporting assessment of Includes one prior to appointment, by invitation long-term solvency and liquidity 1 Appointed 6 May 2014 2 Appointed 27 January 2014 3 Appointed 1 August 2014 Top management 4 Resigned 31 March 2014 5 Resigned 1 March 2014 Increased visibility of the wider UBM management team to NonExecutive Directors through Board presentations, Non-Executive Director visits, regular informal gatherings and seminars addressing key strategic topics UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement continued The Boards responsibilities and its areas of focus in 2015 Responsibilities Activities Plans 2015 Annual Budget Approved amendments to 2014 Approve 2016 budget budget Approved 2015 budget Strategy and Operational Debated strategy at February Develop implementation plans for Performance Board, followed by two full days Events First strategy review in May and October Renew divisional business resulting in Events First strategy performances Risk Completed annual risk review Approve risk appetite Review Group Risk Map and reassess risk reporting processes Financial Statements Approved 2013 financial results Approve financial results and and dividend consider dividends as appropriate Approved 2014 half year results and interim dividend Succession Planning New CEO appointed Succession planning for executive and non-executive roles as Succession planning for executive required, in particular, continue and non-executive roles search for new Non-Executive Director in line with the Board experience framework Dividend Policy Agreed to continue progressive Determine dividend policy dividend policy targeting 2x cover over economic and biennial cycles Acquisitions and Disposals Board and Committee meetings to Review acquisition and disposal approve Advanstar acquisition pipeline Reviewed other M&A opportunities Complete post-acquisition reviews Oversee Advanstar integration Internal Controls Carried out going concern review Complete 2015 review of internal controls in light of Events First Reviewed corporate governance strategy compliance Reviewed UBMs tax and treasury policies Values Established UBM Commitments Review progress of business programme for all employees conduct programme and associated employee training Approved new Code of Business Conduct Doing Business at UBM Rolled out first e-learning module on anti-bribery Approved new Diversity Policy Effectiveness Review Board and Committee Review findings from 2014 Board effectiveness self-evaluation and Committee evaluation completed.
Administered by Consider 2015 Board and third party, Lintstock Committee performance and evaluation, and conduct review of external facilitator 48 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Training and induction Risk management and internal control All Directors are offered the opportunity to further their professional The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of development by attendance at seminars and briefings.
An the risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is induction process is in place for all Directors on appointment: this also responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups includes discussions with the Chairman and Executive Directors as system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of well as individual briefings and presentations from other Directors such systems.
The system is intended to enable the Group to and senior management on matters relating to UBMs businesses identify and manage the risks inherent in its business and and procedures.
accordingly can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Diversity We strongly support the principle of improving gender balance A formal and robust process is in place for identifying, evaluating both at Board level and throughout our businesses.
Further and managing the key financial, operating and compliance risks information about our Policy and our initiatives to improve gender faced by the Group.
This risk mapping process, which was in place and other diversity can be found on page 32. throughout 2014 and continues in force, accords with the FRC Guidance on Internal Control October 2005 and is reviewed In December, the Board approved a new Diversity Policy which annually by the Board.
As part of its overview of strategy, the Board sets out the Boards intention to increase the proportion of female regularly considers specific risks facing the Group.
Directors to 30% by the end of 2015.
The process aims to identify and evaluate risks which are specific Investor relations to each of the Groups businesses.
The risk maps and associated Shareholders are informed about the activities and progress of action plans are compiled by the respective management teams, the Group through the Annual Report and interim management reviewed centrally by the Executive Committee, considered by the statements.
Financial and other information about the Company Audit Committee and, in turn, by the Board.
is published on its website, which has links to the websites of other businesses in UBM.
During 2014 until the date of this Report, the Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes and The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major internal controls, based on matters including: institutional shareholders by means of a scheduled programme of meetings, which are generally undertaken by the CEO and CFO.
the ongoing review of strategy which aims to identify potential Meetings were held with major shareholders at the time of the risks to the Groups achievement of its overall objectives: proposed Advanstar acquisition.
monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and forecasts by Executive Directors and line The Chairman has a programme of ongoing engagement with management, including particular areas of business or shareholders and is available at all times for any discussion that project risk: shareholders seek.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, Greg the authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and Lock, also consults with shareholders on remuneration matters capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the as appropriate.
Board itself: the review of specific material areas of risk across the Group Analysts and brokers reports are made available to all Directors, and the formulation and monitoring of actions to mitigate it: and who also receive feedback from investor meetings.
the formulation and review of properly documented policies and The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by procedures, updated as required to address the changing risks shareholders in the event that they have concerns which have not facing the business.
been dealt with by the Chairman.
All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they are able to ask questions of the Directors.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting takes place by poll and the results are notified via a regulatory information service and displayed on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the Meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting were passed with a majority exceeding 92% of votes cast.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
