Governance Report Nomination Committee Role of the Committee Chairman In preparing such specifications the Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to Dame Helen Alexander considers the skills and experience required to ensure an appropriate balance of experience best support the business and recognises the and abilities on the Board, by reviewing the Members importance of diversity.
As regards gender equality, Alan Gillespie the Committee supports the overall aims of the size and composition of the Board and Pradeep Kar Davies Report entitled Women on Boards and, recommending changes where appropriate.
Greg Lock in 2014, the Committee approved a new Diversity All Non-Executive Directors are members John McConnell Policy, which sets out the Boards intention to from 27 January 2014 increase the proportion of female Directors to 30% of the Committee.
Mary McDowell by the end of 2015.
In selecting search firms to from 1 August 2014 assist with the recruitment of both Executive and Appointment Policy and Process Terry Neill Non-Executive Directors, the Committee seeks to Jonathan Newcomb Appointments to the Board are made on ensure that due regard is given to diversity and that candidate lists reflect this requirement.
merit, having regard to the requirements of the role.
The Committees first step is to During 2014, the Nomination Committee met agree a role and person specification which formally on five occasions and considered succession planning for both Executive and forms the basis for discussion with relevant Non-Executive Directors.
All members of the Committee activities during the year included the following: then provide input into further refinement completing the process for appointing Tim of the specification through individual Cobbold as CEO and agreeing his terms of discussion with the selected search firm.
engagement with the Remuneration Committee: considering the re-election of Directors at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and making recommendations to the Board: reviewing the composition of the Board.
MWM Consulting who provided no other services to Dame Helen Alexander UBM during the year were engaged to Chairman undertake the search for one or more new Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee reviewed and commented on a draft specification: a long list of potential candidates was compiled and several candidates interviewed by the Chairman.
A shortlist was drawn up and interviewed by the Committee and Mary McDowell was appointed as the new Non-Executive Director: the appointment of John McConnell, at the beginning of the year, had also been conducted in the same manner: and approving a revised Diversity Policy for recommendation to the Board.
50 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014
