54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement Board matters Throughout the financial year ended At every Board meeting standing agenda items include: 31 December 2014, the Board considers that it and the Company have complied with the The Chief Executives Report which covers the Groups operational performance, particular provisions set out in the September 2012 performance issues in each Division, the overall outlook for the Group including health and edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code safety performance the Code.
The Code is issued by the Financial The Group Finance Directors Report which covers financial forecasts for the half and full year, Reporting Council and is publicly available on and reviews of: financial performance: banking covenants: and analysts views of the Group, their website www.
This corporate major shareholdings and major share buyers and sellers governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts describes how we have applied the Major project reports main principles of the Code.
Group Marketing Directors Report Role of the Board Human Resources Report The role of the Board is to provide effective leadership and direction in delivering the key Review of current acquisition activity and approval of any offers for proposed acquisitions corporate objective of reliable and consistent A business presentation by a Managing Director President growth in shareholder value.
The Executive Directors set the Group strategy which is subject to challenge before final agreement by the full Other important topics which are covered on a routine basis during the year are: Board.
The Board also ensures that adequate Approval of annual and interim financial statements and accompanying regulatory announcements controls are in place, including calibrating risk appetite and maintaining oversight of Ultras risk Review and approval of the annual budget management processes.
The Board receives Approval of the Groups dividend policy, the payment of the interim dividend and the regular compliance reports.
The Board recommendation of the final dividend encourages the Groups businesses to behave ethically and properly at all times and engenders Receiving reports from the Boards Committees, including recommendations from the Audit a culture of fairness to customers, suppliers and Committee in respect of: the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal employees.
It is the function of the Groups control statement: the adoption of the going concern statement: impairment: and the management, through the Chief Executive and reappointment of the Auditors and the subsequent agreement to such recommendations his Executive Team, to run the operations of the Review and approval of major capital investment projects and bids Group.
During 2014 there were changes to the Executive Team structure.
Details on this can be A full day Board meeting devoted wholly to the review of the five-year strategic plan and found on page 55. principal risks, with presentations given by the Executive Team and discussions held on The Board is responsible for major investment significant matters identified in the proposed plan.
Actions from this meeting are followed up in decisions such as acquisitions and the allocation subsequent Board meetings of the Groups R&D expenditure to major new Six-monthly reviews of Compliance Reports prepared by Divisional Managing Directors and projects.
To this end, in addition to the ten Presidents which summarise the Governance Compliance Report submitted each month by the scheduled Board meetings, the Board held business MDs and Presidents seven unscheduled Board meetings in the year.
The Board conducts regular reviews of the Annual reviews of health & safety and environmental reports summarising the position across major projects being undertaken by the all Group businesses operating businesses.
Approval of any changes to the rules of operation of the Groups employee share plans A summary of some of the Boards key Effectiveness of internal controls responsibilities and activities is set out opposite and the full range of Board responsibilities are Review of the risk register and the Groups insurance programme detailed in the document entitled Matters reserved for the Board which is available from Post acquisition reviews the Investors section of the Group website.
Tax planning Board evaluation Consideration of Non-Executive Directors fees Review of the terms of reference of the main Board and the Board Committees Corporate governance updates Other significant matters addressed by the Board in 2014 included: Group organisation further details are set out on page 14 Cyber protection Extension of time and cost for the Oman Airport IT contract further details are set out on page 63 The Groups corporate structure and operations in China and Hong Kong Audit tendering further details are set out on page 64 Refinancing Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 55 Corporate Governance Report continued How does the way we are governed support the delivery of our strategy?
Good Governance is crucial to ensuring we are well managed and can deliver our strategic priorities.
The Board Chairman: Douglas Caster: Senior Independent Director: Chris Bailey All the Directors are collectively responsible for the success of Ultra.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent and objective judgement and for scrutinising and challenging management.
The Board is responsible for approving our strategy and policies, for oversight of risk and corporate governance, and for ensuring expected returns on investment are made from leveraging our portfolio strength.
The Board is accountable to our shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and our long-term success.
It represents the interests of all stakeholders.
The Board has delegated some of its powers to three Committees see below and the Chief Executive see below.
Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 50 to 51.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman: Chris Bailey Chairman: Chris Bailey Chairman: Martin Broadhurst Talented people are critical to the delivery of To deliver the Groups strategy we must have We seek to reward senior management the Groups strategy.
The Nomination sound financial and non-financial controls.
The competitively, to enable Ultra to recruit, Committees role is to keep under review the Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing motivate and retain executives of high calibre structure, size and composition of the Board: our financial reporting, internal controls, risk whilst avoiding making excessive remuneration to recommend appointments to the Board and management and our relationship with our payments.
The Remuneration Committee is its Committees and to consider succession external auditor.
responsible for ensuring the remuneration of planning to Board positions.
Executive Directors and senior managers is aligned with corporate strategy and objectives along with the interests of shareholders.
Chief Executive: Rakesh Sharma The Executive Team comprises: Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: Group Marketing Director: Chief Operating Officer: Group Human Resources Director and Company Secretary & General Counsel The Executive Team is the body through which the Chief Executive exercises the authority delegated to him by the Board.
It considers major business issues and makes recommendations to the Chief Executive, and typically also reviews those matters which are to be submitted to the Board for its consideration.
The Chief Executive is responsible for establishing and chairing the Executive Team.
Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
In this regard, the Group has the benefit of an independent Ethics Overview Committee.
Ethics Overview Committee Three independent members: David Shattock Chairman : Martin Bell: Major General retired Tim Cross Three Ultra members: Chief Executive: Company Secretary & General Counsel: Managing Director Aircraft & Vehicle Systems division Further details about the Ethics Overview Committee are on page 47.
Introduction 56 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance continued Corporate Governance Report Board meetings Product demonstrations and site tours take place.
This Comprehensive briefing papers are circulated to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting to gives the Non-Executive Directors a good practical insight enable an informed debate to take place at Board into operating businesses.
Acquisition opportunities are presented to the Board by the appropriate Divisional also conduct individual visits to businesses.
This enables a full discussion of the merits and risks of any acquisition proposal to take place at an early stage.
Other significant matters that require formal Board approval which are routinely presented by the appropriate business include major bids, updates on key strategic initiatives and major capital and private venture development expenditure proposals.
The Executive Team as a whole meets the Board annually to present the proposed Strategic Plan for the next five years.
This is then debated with the Directors, changes agreed and a final plan is approved.
The scheduled Board meetings are rotated around the sites of the operating businesses.
During 2014, the Board visited seven operating businesses in the UK.
The Board held one of the meetings at its joint venture subsidiary Ultra Electronics in collaboration with Oman Investment Corporation LLC in Oman, following a tour of the Salalah and Muscat airport developments.
During Board meetings at Ultras operating units, presentations detailing recent performance, key opportunities and future forecasts are given by the senior managers of the host business.
Product demonstrations and site tours also take place.
This gives the Non-Executive Directors a good practical insight into the operating businesses.
The Non-Executive Directors will also conduct individual visits to businesses.
Meeting attendance 2014 short notice or because of prior commitments, The table below shows attendance by Directors they received and read papers for consideration at the Board and Committee meetings.
To the at the meeting, relayed their comments in extent Directors were unable to attend meetings, advance and, where necessary, followed up with because unscheduled meetings were called at the Chairman on the decisions made.
Main Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Actual inclusive of unscheduled Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Board meetings possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Chairman Douglas Caster 17 17 4 4 4 4 2 2 Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma 17 17 4 4 4 4 1 1 Executive Directors 1 Mark Anderson 15 17 4 4 - - - - Mary Waldner 17 17 4 4 - - 1 1 Non-Executive Directors 2 Chris Bailey 16 17 4 4 4 4 2 2 Martin Broadhurst 17 17 4 4 4 4 2 2 Sir Robert Walmsley 17 17 4 4 4 4 2 2 1 Mark Anderson was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting in February 2014 and one unscheduled Board meeting in April 2014.
2 Chris Bailey was unable to attend one unscheduled Board meeting in October 2014.
By invitation Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 57 Corporate Governance Report continued Board composition Board tenure and independence Experience on Tenure years Independence other plc boards Chairman Douglas Caster 4 No Yes Chairman 1 Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors 3 Chris Bailey 10 Yes Yes Non-Exec.
Directors 3 Martin Broadhurst 2.5 Yes No Sir Robert Walmsley 6 Yes Yes Executive Directors In 2014, Chris Bailey, Non-Executive Director, Rakesh Sharma 4 No No stepped down as the Chair of the Mary Waldner 1.5 No No Remuneration Committee and was replaced Mark Anderson 3 No No by Martin Broadhurst.
Throughout 2014, the Board structure was in line with the Code.
In February 2014, Douglas Caster joined the board of Morgan Advanced Materials plc as a Non-Executive Director.
This appointment has had no impact on his role as Chairman.
Diversity Ultra continues to follow its overriding policy of Board roles The key role of the Non-Executive Directors, appointing the best person for a particular role, There is a clear division of responsibilities along with the Chairman, is to provide an regardless of sex, race, nationality, disability, sexual between the Chairman, the Chief Executive and appropriate level of challenge and constructive orientation, age, marital status, religion or beliefs.
the Senior Independent Director, such that no criticism to the plans of the Executive Directors.
The Board contends that a board composed of one individual has unfettered powers of decision The Non-Executive Directors met without the the right balance of skills, experience and diversity making.
This formal division of responsibilities Chairman or Executive Directors being present of views is best placed to support a company in its has been agreed by the Board and is summarised during the year to discuss aspects relating to the strategic objectives.
The Board has considered in in a table which can be found on the Investors Board and the Company and appropriate detail the requirements of the Code regarding section of the Groups website.
In selecting the best person for a role, the Board gives active consideration to the Non-Executive Directors On behalf of the Company, the Non-Executive benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
Chris Bailey, Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin Directors are active in developing relationships at However, setting diversity target aspirations, Broadhurst are the Groups independent a senior level with the Companys key suppliers, especially by specific dates, can distort the Non-Executive Directors.
Chris has served on the customers and business partners.
selection process and conflict with its preferred, Board for over 10 years and will retire as Insurance diversity-aware best person for the role Non-Executive Director at the Annual General The Group maintains an appropriate level of approach.
How the Board addressed diversity in Meeting in 2015, therefore the Board determines Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover in its selection process for a Non-Executive Director is that he is independent.
John Hirst became a Nonrespect of legal action against its Directors.
You can read more about Executive Director effective on 1 January 2015. the Companys initiatives to improve diversity The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors Board appointments the process across the Group, including information on the to be independent.
In assessing independence, In making appointments to the Board, the gender split across the Board, Executive Team the Board considers that they are independent of Board, through the Nomination Committee, is and the Company as a whole, in the sustainability management and free from business and other careful to identify the skills, knowledge and sections of our Strategic Report on page 47. relationships which could interfere with the experience needed for each role and to exercise of independent judgment, now and in complement the existing skills mix provided by Board skills and experience the future.
The Chairman has considered the other Board members.
The process followed by The Board has a balance of skills, understanding, Non-Executive Directors performance in the year the Nomination Committee in appointing perspectives and experience relevant to the and has determined them to be effective and to Directors is described on page 60.
The Board collectively have demonstrated commitment to their roles.
selection from the widest possible talent pool, it possesses a deep understanding of the Groups The Board believes that any shareholdings of the is the Companys normal practice to engage the core defence, security, transport and energy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve to services of independent, external search markets.
This is complemented by its members align their interests with those of all shareholders.
consultants in recruiting new Directors.
experience and expertise in other industries and disciplines including procurement, accountancy, financial management and growing international businesses.
This range of skills and experience Welcome to John Hirst informs the Boards decision-making and enables Mr John Hirst CBE joined the Board on the it to provide effective leadership.
1 January 2015 and will seek election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
John is a The particular skills and experience that each Chartered Accountant and an experienced Director brings to the Board are described in leader of large global private and public their biographical details on pages 50 and 51. sector organisations.
He was Chief Executive The Company has a policy whereby Executive Officer of electronics distributor, Premier Farnell, Directors, but not the Chief Executive, may and Chief Executive of the UK Met Office.
He accept one appointment as a Non-Executive has served for ten years as a Non-Executive Director in another listed company.
Executive Director of Hammerson, where he was also Directors are permitted to retain any fees from Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a such external appointments.
Non-Executive Director of Marsh Ltd. 6.
Introduction 58 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance continued Corporate Governance Report Directors induction and training Board evaluation action points All new appointments to the Board receive a Focus Actions comprehensive induction to the Group covering the Groups strategy, the products and services of Increased strategic focus In addition to the annual off-site meeting the Groups businesses, the key markets in which dedicated to strategy, there will be two additional the businesses operate, the key risks which the annual half day Board strategy sessions.
Group faces together with the actions and plans The Chief Executive will provide the Board with which are in place to mitigate against these, a written summary of strategic matters prior to corporate and organisational structure, financing each Board meeting.
principles and legal and regulatory issues.
There will be an increased focus on strategy in John Hirst joined Ultra as Non-Executive Director the businesses presentations to the Board.
On appointment, he received a full induction pack explaining Ultras Succession planning for senior managers The Board will receive annually a report on the governance framework, policies and procedures.
succession planning and career progression of He had induction meetings with the Executive senior employees.
Directors, Company Secretary & General Counsel, HR Director, external audit Continued improvements to risk management A review of the Companys risk management engagement partner and head of internal audit.
processes processes in light of the Codes requirements He will also undertake a programme of visits to will be undertaken.
the Groups businesses where he will meet with the management teams of these businesses.
Annual re-election of Directors Ultras internal controls are designed, and have The Company Secretary & General Counsel All the Directors will stand for re-election at the evolved over time, to meet the Groups particular annually presents to the Board on corporate Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2015 needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Board is briefed on significant except for Chris Bailey who, after ten years in However, no controls can provide absolute changes in the law or governance codes tenure, will retire.
In 2014, the Board appointed assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
affecting their duties as Directors.
Experts a new finance specialist Non-Executive Director, The key features of the internal control system present to the Board on specialist areas, such as John Hirst.
His appointment took effect on that operated during the year are described in pensions and tax.
Specific training is arranged for 1 January 2015.
John will seek election at the the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 64.
Directors as and when appropriate.
The Directors Annual General Meeting and will replace Chris are able to call on independent professional Risk management as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
advice at anytime should this be necessary in Risk assessment and management is not treated order for them to carry out their duties.
Conflicts of interest as a separate function within Ultra.
It is assessed The Company has in place procedures for and managed as an integral part of all of Ultras Board evaluation managing conflicts and potential conflicts of management and control processes.
The key The Chairman commissions  interest.
The Companys Articles of Association features of the risk management system are annual Board evaluations.
Board evaluations run also contain provisions to allow the Directors to described in the Audit Committee report on on a two year cycle.
One year, the effectiveness authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of pages 62 to 64. of the Board and its Committees is evaluated.
interest so that a Director is not in breach of his The next year, individual Directors performance Financial reporting systems or her duty under company law.
The Group has a well-established process for become aware of a conflict or potential conflict collecting financial information from operating In 2014, Mr Telfer of Auxesis Consulting Ltd of interest they should notify in line with the businesses and for consolidating this at undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of Companys Articles of Association.
Directors Divisional and Group level.
the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation have a continuing duty to update any changes was conducted through a questionnaire with to their conflicts of interest.
Directors are Financial results for operating businesses, each follow up discussions.
A report was prepared for excluded from the quorum and vote in respect Division and the whole Group are provided to the Board on the results of the exercise and Mr of any matters in which they have a conflict of the Board monthly and presented at every Telfer attended a Board meeting at which the interest.
No material conflicts were reported by scheduled Board meeting.
Ten scheduled Board report was discussed.
The Board and its Directors in 2014. meetings are held each year.
When a scheduled Committees were considered to be fully effective, Board Meeting is not held in the month, the Internal controls and the action points, illustrated in the table Directors receive the following information: a The Directors carry out an annual review of the above, were identified.
summary financial report for the Group effectiveness of the Groups internal control comprising consolidated financial information Mr. Telfer has considerable experience of systems.
This covers the ways in which identified and business financial information: summary working at board level.
He was the Human strategic, operational and financial risks are financial reports from each of the businesses: Resources Director of the Company up until managed.
Particular attention in the year was paid and a shareholder analysis summary report on June 2004 when he left the Company to set up to business continuity planning and improving Ultra.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance his own consultancy and so was able to information security management.
Further, as part Director explain the significance of any major facilitate the evaluation from a position of of this assessment of internal controls the Directors impacts on the financial performance and draw having a good understanding of the Company have considered the implications of the the Boards attention to any significant trends or and its culture.
He provides a valuable insight termination of the Oman Airport IT contract and deviations from budget revealed by forecasts of into the Companys challenges and needs and is have concluded that the control environment future performance.
able to assess the Board and its Committees in continues to operate effectively, and that the the context of the Companys development.
Companys risk management procedures remain appropriate.
In light of this experience, the Directors will review the application of the risk management procedures to ensure that any required enhancements are captured as part of a continuous improvement.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 59 Corporate Governance Report continued Shareholder communication All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual Commitment to dialogue General Meeting where they have the The Board is committed to high-quality dialogue opportunity to meet with Directors and to ask with shareholders.
The Executive Directors lead questions.
Voting at the Annual General in this respect.
The Senior Independent Director Meeting is conducted by way of a show of and other Non-Executive Directors are available hands.
Proxy votes lodged for each Annual to meet with shareholders on request.
General Meeting are announced at the meeting and published on Ultras website.
Electronic The Chairman and Senior Independent Director communication with shareholders is preferred offered to meet the small number of shareholders wherever possible since this is both more who voted against the resolutions to re-appoint efficient and environmentally friendly.
However, the Directors at the 2014 Annual General Meeting shareholders may opt to receive hard copy to understand their reasons.
These shareholders communication if they wish.
had voted against the resolutions because their voting guidelines prevented them voting in Shareholder analysis favour of a Board that was not made up of a The majority of Ultras shares are held by majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman, However, the shareholders emphasised their Chief Executive and other members of the confidence in the Board.
Executive Team have significant holdings in the Company, including shares awarded through The Remuneration Committee Chairman has share option or long term incentive schemes.
also led a shareholder engagement exercise on the remuneration policy, details of which can be found in the Remuneration report on page 65.
Shareholder analysis by size of holding as at 31 December 2014 Annual programme Fund Holding % A full programme of engagement with Unit trusts 39,398,653 56.31 shareholders, potential investors and analysts is undertaken each year by the Executive Directors.
Pension funds 8,686,854 12.41 Ultra organises focused events and or site visits Other managed funds 3,903,247 5.58 to provide greater insight into the strengths and potential of its extensive portfolio of specialist Sovereign wealth 2,207,343 3.16 capabilities.
These range from introductory Insurance companies 3,519,396 5.03 briefings on the Group as a whole to Private investor 5,195,065 7.43 presentations on specific areas of capability.
Mutual fund 3,687,413 5.27 Visits and presentations in the year included a presentation in London to shareholders and to Investment trust 1,122,255 1.60 analysts at Bletchley Park in November 2014.
At Custodians 1,099,543 1.57 this event the Directors gave presentations on the new acquisitions Forensic Technology Inc and Hedge fund -- 3 Phoenix Inc.
The briefing also covered updates Exchange-traded fund 475,420 0.68 on Sonar and Cyber capability.
In addition, Ultra invited investors and members of the financial Employees share scheme trustees 235,247 0.34 community to the Farnborough Airshow where Charity 194,906 0.28 a significant proportion of the Groups products Local authority 236,713 0.34 and capabilities was exhibited.
Other -- Meetings are held with institutional investors and financial analysts after the release of the Total issued share capital 69,962,055 100.00 interim and full year financial results, at which detailed briefings are given.
These briefings can Shareholder analysis by category of shareholder as at 31 December 2014 also be found on the Investors section of the Groups website, together with copies of all Total number Total number % Size of shareholding of holdings % of holders of shares issued capital regulatory announcements, press releases and copies of the published full year and interim 1-50 129 7.67 2,815 0.00 accounts and reports.
Introduction 60 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance continued Corporate Governance Report Financial calendar Nomination Committee Statement of going concern Role Ultras banking facilities amount to 300m in 24 March 2015 Annual Report & The function of the Nomination Committee is to total, together with a 15m overdraft.
They Accounts published keep under review the structure, size and were established in two tranches.
composition of the Board, and to make proposals 9 April 2015 Ex-dividend date The first tranche comprises 100m of revolving to the Board regarding the appointment of new credit, denominated in Sterling, US dollars, 10 April 2015 Record date directors and Board Committee Chairmen.
The Canadian dollars, Australian dollars or Euros.
30 April 2015 Annual General Boards policy on diversity is described on page 57.
This facility was signed in December 2012 and Meeting The terms of reference which are reviewed expires in December 2017.
The facility is annually by the Nomination Committee are 6 May 2015 Final dividend provided by a group of five banks.
available on the Companys website payment date The second tranche provides a further 200m of www.
3 August 2015 Interim results revolving credit in the same currencies.
This was During 2014 the Committee met twice.
A announced signed in August 2014 with seven banks and search firm, The Inzito Partnership, was engaged expires in July 2019.
Both facilities have the 25 September 2015 Interim dividend to identify potential candidates for the position same covenants.
payment date of Non-Executive Director and, following the The Group has a shelf facility with Prudential retirement of Chris Bailey at the 2015 Annual Board Committees Investment Management Inc.
This agreement General Meeting, Chair of the Audit Ultra has established three Committees of the gives the Group access to the US private Committee.
The search firm does not have any Board the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination placement market on a bilateral basis.
The facility other connection with the Company.
The Committees, to which certain key responsibilities is non-committed but is for up to $195m.
At the selection criteria required the candidate to: be a have been delegated.
The detailed terms of year-end $70m of loan notes had been issued, qualified accountant: have recent and relevant reference of each Committee are available from which will mature in 2018 and 2019. financial experience: have experience in the Investors section of the Group website.
The corporate finance matters: have experience in As well as being used to fund acquisitions, the responsibilities of each Committee are in line with dealing with investors and analysts: and have financing facilities are also used for other the recommendations of the Code.
The the time capacity to take on the role.
The list of balance sheet and operational needs, including membership of the Audit and Remuneration shortlisted candidates included male and female the funding of day-to-day working capital Committees comprises the three independent applicants.
The curriculum vitaes of the requirements.
The US dollar borrowings also Non-Executive Directors Chris Bailey, Sir Robert shortlisted candidates were considered by the represent natural hedges against assets Walmsley and Martin Broadhurst.
Chris is the Nomination Committee and members of the denominated in that currency.
The Groups Chairman of the Audit Committee and Martin is Nomination Committee were invited to attend banking covenants have all been met in 2014 the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Following this process, upon the with a comfortable margin.
The approved Group The membership of the Nomination Committee recommendation of the Nomination Committee, budget for 2015 and strategic plan for later comprises the three independent Non-Executive the Board appointed John Hirst as a Non-Executive years give confidence that the Group will Directors and Douglas Caster, with Chris as Director effective on 1 January 2015.
He will be continue to meet these covenants.
Details of Chairman of the Committee.
Summaries of the appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee, how Ultra manages its liquidity risk can be key activities of each Committee are given in the subject to election at the 2015 Annual General found in note 23 Financial Instruments and following paragraphs.
John comes with: a strong background Financial Risk Management.
in strategy, knowledge of the public private Audit Committee Though global macro-economic conditions sector and regulatory governance issues: and The Committee met four times during the year.
It remain uncertain, the long-term nature of experience in international operations.
is responsible for overseeing the Companys Ultras business and its positioning in attractive Ultras succession planning process is described internal financial controls and risk management: sectors of its markets, taken together with the in detail on page 46. recommending the half and full year financial Groups forward order book provide a results to the Board: and monitoring the integrity Remuneration Committee satisfactory level of confidence in respect of of all formal reports and announcements relating Role trading in the year to come.
to the Companys financial performance.
Full The Committee met four times during the year.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that details of the activities of the Audit Committee It is responsible for formulating and Ultra has adequate resources to continue in during 2014 are given on page 62. recommending to the Board the remuneration operational existence for the foreseeable future.
policy for Executive Directors and Chairman of Thus, they continue to adopt a going concern the Board.
Full details of the activities of the basis of accounting in preparing the annual Remuneration Committee during 2014 are financial statements.
given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 65, comprising the Directors Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Both sections of the report will be presented for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 61 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for keeping The Directors are responsible for preparing the adequate accounting records that are sufficient Annual Report and the financial statements in to show and explain the Companys transactions accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Company law requires the Directors to prepare enable them to ensure that the financial financial statements for each financial year.
statements comply with the Companies Act Under that law the Directors are required to 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding prepare the Group financial statements in the assets of the Company and for taking accordance with International Financial reasonable steps for the prevention and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
European Union and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation The Directors are responsible for the IAS and have elected to prepare the Parent maintenance and integrity of the corporate and Company financial statements in accordance financial information included on the Companys with United Kingdom Generally Accepted website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Accounting Practice United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Accounting Standards and applicable law.
financial statements may differ from legislation Under company law, the Directors must not in other jurisdictions.
approve the accounts unless they are satisfied We confirm that to the best of our knowledge, that they give a true and fair view of the state of taken as a whole: affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss the financial statements, prepared in of the Company for that period.
accordance with the relevant financial In preparing the Parent Company financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view statements, the Directors are required to: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Select suitable accounting policies and then profit or loss of the Company and the apply them consistently undertakings included in the consolidation: Make judgments and accounting estimates the annual report and accounts are fair, that are reasonable and prudent balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to State whether applicable UK Accounting assess the Companys performance, business Standards have been followed subject to any model and strategy: and material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business Prepare the financial statements on the going and the position of the Company and the concern basis unless it is inappropriate to undertakings included in the consolidation, presume that the Company will continue in together with a description of the principal business.
risks and uncertainties that they face.
In preparing the Group financial statements, In accordance with Section 418 of the International Accounting Standard 1 requires Companies Act 2006, each Director in office at that Directors: the date the Directors report is approved, Properly select and apply accounting policies confirms that: Present information, including accounting so far as the Director is aware, there is no policies, in a manner that provides relevant, relevant audit information of which the reliable, comparable and understandable Companys auditors are unaware: and information he she has taken all the steps that he she ought Provide additional disclosures when compliance to have taken as a Director in order to make with the specific requirements in IFRSs are himself herself aware of any relevant audit insufficient to enable users to understand the information and to establish that the Companys impact of particular transactions, other events auditors are aware of that information.
and conditions on the entitys financial position The Annual Report on pages 1 to 79 was and financial performance approved by the Board of Directors and Make an assessment of the Companys ability authorised for issue on 27 February 2015 and to continue as a going concern.
signed on behalf of the Board by: Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive Mary Waldner, Group Finance Director 6.
