62 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Audit Committee Report Governance Audit Committee Report... as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the year.
Chris Bailey Chairman of the Audit Committee The Company is committed to ensuring that we Composition Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the have robust and effective risk management and The composition of the Committee is set out on external audit process, including the external control processes.
As Chairman of the Audit page 60.
The Chairman of the Committee has the auditors appointment, fees and independence Committee, I am pleased to present our report relevant financial and accounting experience Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal detailing the role and responsibilities of the required by the Code.
The Chairman of the audit function and the Groups system of Committee and its activities during the year that Committee is supported in his role by the other internal control, including financial reporting, support this.
The Boards report on the systems members of the Committee who have a wide and the processes for monitoring and of internal control and their effectiveness, range of business experience and expertise, as evaluating the risks facing the Group.
together with the going concern statement, can evidenced in their biographies on page 51.
The Committee has written terms of reference be found in the Corporate Governance section Meetings and attendance which includes all matters indicated by the on pages 52 to 61.
The Committee met four times during the year Code.
These terms of reference are reviewed During the year, the Committee continued to under review.
In addition to the Committee and approved by the Board annually and are review the appropriateness of the Groups members, regular attendees are: the Chairman available on the Companys website system of risk management and internal of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group www.
controls, the robustness and integrity of the Finance Director and the Marketing Director.
The Board is kept fully informed of the Groups financial reporting, along with both the The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts Committees work and the minutes of each internal and external audit processes.
as Secretary to the Committee.
Deloitte LLP is Committee meeting are circulated to Board the Groups external auditor.
To ensure full and A risk based approach is taken by the Company members.
open communication, Deloitte was represented in determining its internal audit plan, thereby at all Committee meetings, and the lead partner ensuring the plan is clearly linked to the Internal controls and risk management from PwC attended those meetings at which Companys strategy and flexible enough to The Committee reviews the Companys systems summary Internal Audit Reports were reviewed highlight and address emerging risks.
The focus of internal controls and risk management and by the Committee.
in 2014 was on compliance with the Companys their effectiveness as well as continued Business Continuity and IT Disaster Recovery During 2014, the Committee Chairman met with improvements to these systems and resolution of Policies by all of the Companys businesses.
In Deloitte and PwC in the absence of Executive any control issues identified.
Clear terms of addition,  PwC, the and Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, the reference set out the duties of the Board and the Companys internal auditors, continued to work Committee met with Deloitte without Executive Board Committees, with delegation of operating with the businesses to ensure the Companys risk Directors present, where Deloitte reported on responsibility to management clearly described in management procedures remain relevant to their views of the Groups financial management the Group Operating Manual.
Financial reporting changing business conditions.
process and any matters that they thought systems are comprehensive and include monthly should be brought to the Committee.
Monthly finance reports are In 2014, the significant issues at the forefront prepared by all businesses containing actual of the Committees deliberations were: In terms of the effectiveness of the Committee, financial performance measures for the most valuation and impairment testing of goodwill an externally facilitated evaluation was carried recent month and year to date.
These are and intangible assets: and long term out see page 58 by way of questionnaire compared with budget, forecasts and the prior accounting, in particular in respect of the Oman which was circulated to the Board.
These monthly reports are reviewed by the Airport IT contract.
The Audit Committee the Committee, its skills mix and oversight of relevant Divisional Finance Director, Group received regular updates on the Oman Contract financial management, reporting and audit was Finance Director, members of the Executive Team from management throughout the year and a considered to remain effective.
Financial information is uploaded presentation from the law firm representing the Role monthly by all businesses to BPC, the Groups Companys joint venture subsidiary in its The Committees main responsibilities include consolidation and reporting system, which is discussions regarding certification and payment the following: collated by the Head Office finance team and for work completed.
Scrutinising the Groups annual and interim reconciled to the businesses monthly reports.
At the Annual General Meeting in April, I will financial statements and accounts and When preparing and reviewing financial retire from the Board and Chair of the Audit reporting to the Board on the significant information, the businesses do not work to a Committee following ten years of service as a financial reporting issues and judgements made materiality threshold.
All variances judged to be Non-Executive Director of Ultra.
John Hirst, who significant are investigated and explained.
Reviewing the content of the Annual Report was appointed to the Board with effect from & Accounts and advising the Board whether, Every 6 months, Divisional Control Review the 1 January 2015, will seek election as a taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and DCR meetings, which are attended by the Director of the Company and if so elected, will understandable and provides the information Group Finance Director, each Divisional Finance be appointed as the Chairman of the Audit necessary for shareholders to assess the Director and PwC, are held.
At the DCR meetings, Committee.
John has recent and relevant Companys performance, business model the internal controls processes and issues for each financial experience as well as being an and strategy business are discussed.
These include: experienced leader of large global private and public sector organisations.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 63 Audit Committee Report continued Results from the Senior Accounting Officer the risk management and internal control review and any tax audits systems have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Self-assessment against the Group Annual Report & Accounts.
With the assistance Operating Manual of the Committee, all significant aspects of Outstanding internal and external audits internal control for 2014 have been reviewed and Segregation of duties and IT access audits internal procedures amended where necessary.
Compliance with the Groups Information Security Policy Activities of the Committee during the year Summary results from these reviews are included in Topic What was considered the Internal Controls Improvement Status Report, Financial reporting Annual and interim financial statements and related results which is presented to the Committee twice a year.
announcements Effective and on-going monitoring and review are Reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their essential components of sound systems of risk audit process management and internal control.
Ultras financial reporting and internal control systems are Key accounting policies and practices adopted by the intended to allow the Board to consider whether Group, key accounting judgments see page below and the systems are aligned with the Companys matters that required the exercise of significant strategic objectives and help to determine risks management judgment see page below including, but not limited to, principal risks and The going concern statement see page 60 uncertainties facing the Company.
The Companys Internal controls Reports on the internal control environment and risk principal risks are set out on pages 36 to 39.
The management and their effectiveness Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, reliable and timely information from Tracking compliance with the Groups Business Continuity management in the last financial year to enable it and IT Disaster Recovery Policies to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Board maintains an Key risk mitigation Progress reports on work undertaken to strengthen internal audit process, carried out by PwC, to controls around the Groups main risks see page 62 review financial and information systems control procedures throughout the Group.
All significant Audit plans Internal and external audit plans for the year business units are audited at least once every Whistleblowing Reports of calls to the Groups external Employee Hotline 2 years, while other businesses are audited on a and how they have been investigated and dealt with 3 year cycle.
In addition, all newly acquired individually operating businesses are audited External auditor The external auditors engagement policy, independence within a year of their acquisition date.
The lead and effectiveness partner of PwC reports directly to the Chairman Review of audit and non-audit fees of the Committee and presents the findings of his team twice annually to the Committee.
Progress Governance Changes to IFRS, financial reporting and UK Corporate reports on follow-up remedial actions are Governance Code reported regularly to the Committee.
PwC The Committees terms of reference confirms whether appropriate action has been taken to address the risks when they next visit the business concerned.
Significant financial judgements How the Committee addressed The Managing Directors and Presidents, Finance and financial reporting for 2014 these judgements Directors and Vice Presidents of Finance of each business are required to give a formal written Oman airport IT contract termination The Committee reviewed the documentation received in representation to the Board each year respect of the termination event and discussed the confirming that they accept responsibility for implications arising from this, in particular whether it was maintaining effective internal controls and that an adjusting post balance sheet event for FY14.
they have disclosed full details of any fraud or The Committee considered the judgements taken in suspected fraud within their business.
accounting for the termination event including revenue recognition, recoverability of assets, provisions for all As part of the ongoing assessment of internal known liabilities, and the associated disclosures presented controls and risk management the Committee has in this Annual Report.
considered the implications of the termination of The Committee further considered reports from, and held the Oman Airport IT contract and has concluded discussions with, the external auditors.
that the control environment continues to operate effectively.
Whilst the Committee considers the Revenue and profit recognition on The Committee assessed the risk control processes and Companys risk management procedures to the largest long term contracts in approval practices adopted when determining revenue and remain appropriate, in light of this experience the the Group profit recognition Committee will review the application of the risk management procedures to ensure that we Valuation of goodwill and The Committee reviewed the methodology and capture any required enhancements.
intangibles assumptions used to determine the balance sheet values.
The Committee also considered reports from, and held The Board accepts overall responsibility for discussions with, the external auditors reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls at least annually and has Retirement benefit plans The Committee reviewed the main assumptions used in performed a specific assessment for the purposes determining the defined benefit post retirement obligation of this Annual Report.
Introduction 64 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Audit Committee Report continued Governance continued Audit Committee Report External auditors The external auditors must certify to the Fraud The performance, effectiveness and independence Company that they are acting independently.
The internal audit process carried out by PwC, of the Companys auditors, Deloitte, are reviewed described on page 63, and the Groups internal In providing a non-audit service, the external annually by the Committee.
The Committee control framework help to protect the Group auditors should not: considered the questions contained in a against fraud.
Regular business reviews take audit their own work questionnaire issued by the Institute of Chartered place at all businesses, in which detailed balance make management decisions for the Company Accountants of Scotland in October 2007 to sheet and cash flow reviews are carried out by create a mutuality of interest assess performance, effectiveness and the relevant Divisional Managing and Financial find themselves in the role of advocate for independence and concluded that Deloitte had Directors.
In addition, the Group Finance the Company.
been sufficiently transparent and incisive and the Director and Group Chief Operating Officer The Group Finance Director has authority to audits had been effective.
The Committee review the performance of the businesses with commission the external auditors to undertake concluded that Deloitte was both independent the Divisional team monthly and directly with non-audit work where there is a specific and objective and that the reappointment of the businesses at least twice a year.
Significant project with a cost that is not expected to Deloitte as external auditor should be differences between forecast and reported exceed 50,000.
Any individual assignments recommended to the shareholders.
Accordingly, financial results are highlighted and require with an estimated fee in excess of 50,000 a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be put to explanation by the business unit concerned.
The must be referred in advance to the Chairman shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Group Chief Executive and Group Marketing of the Committee for his approval.
All Director also attend such Divisional Business The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte non-audit work has to be reported to the reviews as the case requires.
The internal control on the Ultra audit is subject to a strict policy of Committee at its next meeting.
framework that is in place is supplemented by regular rotation such that there is a change in Before commissioning non-audit services, the the external audit process which represents a this role at least once every five years.
This is in Group Finance Director or the Chairman of second independent review of controls and accordance with professional practice the Committee, as appropriate, must ensure procedures, with selective transaction testing of guidelines.
The current senior audit partners that there is no issue as regards independence higher risk areas.
There is a fraud reporting tenure commenced in 2011.
Deloitte was and objectivity and that other potential process in place.
Any reports of fraud would appointed in 2002.
The Committee considers providers are adequately considered.
immediately be investigated and the situation that for an organisation of the size and reported at the next Board meeting.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is complexity of Ultra, the tendering of external assessed by the Committee, which meets audit must be well planned to ensure that the Whistleblowing regularly throughout the year with the audit Group complies with best practice corporate An independently hosted Employee Hotline is partner and senior audit managers.
Key to the governance as well as ensuring the Group used to provide a process for reporting ethical overall effectiveness of the process is that each receives a high quality, efficient and effective concerns.
Employees are informed of this process of the Company and the Auditor make the other external audit service.
On this basis, the through posters which are translated into local aware of accounting and financial reporting Committee considers it would be appropriate to languages and through the Group intranet issues as and when they arise, and this exchange conduct an external audit tender no later than which is accessible by all employees.
Employees is not limited to the period in which formal audit 2023 in line with applicable regulations and the can report ethical dilemmas or other similar and review engagements take place.
Code at which point Deloitte would be concerns they may have via this external precluded from being Ultras external auditors.
This general approach is supported by a formal Employee Hotline and can remain anonymous if There are no contractual obligations that restrict feedback request process whereby each of the they wish.
Employee concerns are forwarded to the Committees choice of external auditors.
businesses in the Group are requested to feedback the Chairman of the Audit Committee or, in the comments on the audit process, the performance The auditors engagement letter and the scope of case of issues covered by US security legislation, of the auditors and any recommendations for the the years annual audit cycle is discussed in to the Chairman of the Security Committee of audit process going forward.
A debrief meeting is advance by the Committee, ensuring that any either Ultras Special Security Agreement then held with Deloitte to discuss the results of the changes in circumstances arising since the company or Ultras Proxy Board company, as feedback and agree on any measures for previous year are taken into account.
During 2014, two reports were improvement of the audit process.
to non-audit assignments undertaken by Deloitte, submitted none in 2013 which were the Company has a policy to ensure that the investigated and dealt with appropriately.
The Committee believes that sufficient and provision of such services do not impair Deloittes appropriate information is obtained from the Anti-bribery independence or objectivity.
The policy is that: feedback request to form an overall judgment on Ultra has robust anti-bribery policies and Non-audit services are restricted to regulatory the effectiveness of the external audit process.
All Directors and employees reporting, consultancy services associated with The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of audit and are required to sign Ultras code of conduct on financial restructuring, responding to new non-audit services are shown in note 6 to the anti-bribery and commit to act in accordance with reporting requirements, due diligence Financial Statements.
Within 1 week of joining Ultra, Directors assessments of potential acquisitions and minor and employees undertake anti-bribery training.
The Group has a policy on employment of consultancy work.
In connection with acquisition Further anti-bribery training is given to targeted former employees of external auditors.
This due diligence work and certain consultancy groups throughout the year.
The Group intranet requires that any such employment is considered work, it is the Boards view that the auditors contains a statement from the Chief Executive on a case by case basis and takes into account familiarity with the Companys accounting regarding compliance with Ultras anti-bribery the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards practices and the techniques that are involved in policies.
Compliance with the code of conduct on on such appointments.
Such appointment the Companys long-term contracting activities anti-bribery is closely monitored by a requirement requires approval by a combination of the Group serves them well in carrying out such work.
for Ultra businesses to submit monthly business Finance Director, Audit Committee and Board, When considering the use of the external performance reports confirming compliance with depending on the seniority of the appointment.
auditors to undertake non-audit work, the code and reporting any breaches.
consideration must be given to the provisions By order of the Board of the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the Chris Bailey, Chairman of the Audit Committee preservation of independence and objectivity.
