CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their dates of appointments and their other major appointments is set ABOUT UNILEVER out on page 54.
Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever PLC PLC, together with their group companies have, since the Unilever Group was formed in 1930, The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Group operated as nearly as practicable as a single economic entity.
This to the CEO with the exception of the following matters which are is achieved by special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, and PLC, together with a series of agreements between NV and PLC corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall which are together known as the Foundation Agreements described strategy for the Group and approval of significant transactions or below.
These agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures management, operations, shareholders rights, purpose and and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing mission and can be found on our website.
The CEO is responsible to the Boards and is able to delegate any of his powers and discretions which he does to The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the members of the ULE.
The ULE is chaired by and reports to the shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if CEO.
The biographies of ULE members are on page 55. they held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
BOARD COMMITTEES Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the The Boards have established four Board Committees: the same financial periods and accounting policies.
Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Nominating and Corporate The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their Governance Committee.
The terms of reference of these respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for Committees can be found on our website and the reports of the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall each Committee can be found on pages 56 to 77.
Attendance exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses tables can be found within each Committee Report.
the intention being to create and maintain a common operating platform for the Group throughout the world.
The Deed also contains www.
com committees provisions for the allocation of assets between NV and PLC.
THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the Vice Chairman, CEO and other corporate officers and how our other, guarantee the borrowings of the other and the others Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled of financial policy, for certain significant borrowings.
They The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
enable lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation NVs Articles of Association contain, among other things, the Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and objects clause, which sets out the scope of activities that NV is training, Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers authorised to undertake.
They are drafted to give a wide scope expense and details about Board and Management Committees and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business including the Disclosure Committee.
as a holding company, to manage any companies in which it has an interest and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation www.
At the 2010 PLC AGM, the shareholders agreed that the objects clause be removed from PLCs Articles of Association so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange BOARD EFFECTIVENESS listings.
Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the other.
BOARD MEETINGS A minimum of five face-to-face meetings are planned throughout www.
com legalstructure the calendar year to consider, for example, the half-year and full-year results announcements of the Group and the Annual BOARDS Report and Accounts.
Other Board meetings and telephone The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the conferences are held to discuss matters that arise as well as management, general affairs, direction, performance and longGroup strategic issues.
Meetings of the Boards may be held term success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are one-tier either in London or in Rotterdam or such other locations as the boards, the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility Boards think fit, with one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
of the Directors is collective, taking into account their respective The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, ensures the Directors roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
During receive accurate, timely and clear information, and promotes 2014, Unilever continued to have two Executive Directors, the Chief effective relationships and open communication between the Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, who are Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
also members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE and are full-time employees of Unilever.
The majority of the Directors are Non-Executive Directors who essentially have a supervisory role.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 41
