REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE recommended good practice.
The terms of reference are contained within The Governance of Unilever which is available on our website at www.
The ATTENDANCE Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited to, Byron Grote 7 8 the following matters with a view to bringing any relevant issues Chairman of the Audit Committee to the attention of the Boards: Oversight of the integrity of Unilevers financial statements: Mary Ma 8 8 Review of Unilevers quarterly and annual financial statements Hixonia Nyasulu 8 8 including clarity and completeness of disclosure, and John Rishton 8 8 approval of the quarterly trading statements for quarter 1 and quarter 3: This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their Oversight of risk management and internal control arrangements: attendance at meetings during 2014.
If Directors are unable to attend Oversight of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda Oversight of the external auditors performance, objectivity, items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the qualifications and independence: the approval process of number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
non-audit services: recommendation to the Boards of their nomination for shareholder approval: and approval of their fees, refer to note 25 on page 128: The performance of the internal audit function: and HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014 Approval of Unilever Leadership Executive ULE expense policy and review of Executive Director expenses.
Review of the Annual Report & Accounts In order to help the Committee meet its oversight responsibilities, each year management organise knowledge sessions for the Oversight of transition to the new Committee on subject areas within their remit.
In 2014, sessions external auditors on corporate governance and reporting updates and cyber Review of managements improvements to security were held.
reporting and internal control arrangements HOW THE COMMITTEE HAS DISCHARGED ITS RESPONSIBILITIES Review of Unilevers major change programmes During the year, the Committees principal activities were as follows: Review of IT security and data privacy FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee reviewed the quarterly financial press releases together with the associated internal quarterly reports from the Chief PRIORITIES FOR 2015 Financial Officer and the Disclosure Committee, and with respect to the half-year, and full-year results the external auditors reports, Ongoing assessment of new regulatory prior to their publication.
They also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on Form 20-F.
These reviews requirements for audit committees with respect incorporated the accounting policies and significant judgements to reporting and governance and estimates underpinning the financial statements as disclosed Review of Unilevers major change programmes within note 1 on pages 88 and 89.
Particular attention was paid to the Review of non-financial KPIs following significant issues in relation to the financial statements: Revenue recognition estimation of discounts, incentives on Review of IT security and resilience sales made during the year, refer to note 2 on page 90: Impact of new global tax regulations Direct tax provisions and contingencies, refer to note 6 on pages 100 to 102: Indirect tax provisions and contingencies, refer to note 19 on page 123.
MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE The external auditors have agreed the list of significant issues The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent discussed by the Audit Committee.
Non-Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such members.
It is chaired by Byron Grote.
The other members For each of the above areas the Committee considered the key are Mary Ma, Hixonia Nyasulu and John Rishton.
For the purposes facts and judgements outlined by management.
Members of of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Byron Grote is the Audit management attended the section of the meeting of the Committee Committees financial expert.
The Boards have satisfied where their item was discussed to answer any questions or themselves that the current members of the Audit Committee challenges posed by the Committee.
The issues were also are competent in financial matters and have recent and relevant discussed with the external auditor and further information can experience.
Other attendees at Committee meetings or part be found on page 80.
The Committee was satisfied that there are thereof were the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor, Group relevant accounting policies in place in relation to these significant Controller, Chief Legal Officer, Group Secretary and the external issues and management have correctly applied these policies.
Throughout the year the Committee members periodically met without others present and also held separate private At the request of the Board the Committee considered whether sessions with the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and the the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and external auditor, allowing the Committee to discuss any issues understandable and whether it provided the necessary in more detail directly.
information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee were satisfied that, ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE taken as a whole, the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out balanced and understandable.
in written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by theCommittee taking into account relevant legislation and 56 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS audit contract by one year, and recommended to the Boards the The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk re-appointment of the external auditors.
On the recommendation management and control, and its processes, outcomes and of the Committee, the Directors will be proposing the redisclosure.
It reviewed: appointment of KPMG at the AGMs in April 2015. the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report, including Code of Business Principles cases relating to frauds Both Unilever and KPMG have safeguards in place to avoid the and financial crimes and significant complaints received through possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be the Unilever Code Support Line: compromised, such as audit partner rotation and the restriction the 2014 corporate risks for which the Audit Committee had on non-audit services that the external auditors can perform as oversight and the proposed 2015 corporate risks identified described below.
The Committee reviewed the report from KPMG by the ULE: on the actions they take to comply with the professional and managements improvements to reporting and internal financial regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure control arrangements: their independence from Unilever.
processes related to cyber security, information management and privacy: Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the tax planning, insurance arrangements and related external audit process which includes gaining feedback from key risk management: stakeholders at all levels across Unilever.
treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: and litigation and regulatory investigations.
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, audit related and non-audit related services provided by KPMG and compliance with The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements Unilevers documented approach, which prescribes in detail the under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with types of engagements, listed below, for which the external auditors respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
In addition, can be used: the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan and Unilevers statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: dividend policy and dividend proposals.
audit related engagements services that involve attestation, assurance or certification of factual information that may be During 2014 the Committee oversaw the independent assurance required by external parties: work that is performed on a number of our Unilever Sustainable non-audit related services work that our auditors are best Living Plan USLP metrics selected on the basis of their placed to undertake, which may include: materiality to the USLP.
tax services all significant tax work is put to tender: acquisition and disposal services, including related due In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk diligence, audits and accountants reports: and management, internal control and the financial statements, the internal control reviews.
Committee met regularly with senior members of management and is fully satisfied with the key judgements taken.
Several types of engagements are prohibited, including: bookkeeping or similar services: INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION systems design and implementation related to financial The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year information or risk management: and agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed valuation services: interim and year-end summary reports and managements actuarial services: response.
The Committee carried out an evaluation of the internal audit: performance of the internal audit function and was satisfied with broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment bank the effectiveness of the function.
The Committee met services: independently with the Chief Auditor during the year and legal services: discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
design and or implementation of risk management processes and systems: and AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS staff secondments to a management function.
KPMG, Unilevers external auditors and independent registered public accounting firm, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and All audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit outcome of the annual audit, including their audit of internal controls related engagements over 100,000 required specific advance over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the US approval by the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Their reports included accounting further approved all engagements below these levels which have matters, governance and control, and accounting developments.
been authorised by the Group Controller.
These authorities are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the light of The Committee held independent meetings with the external internal developments, external developments and best practice.
auditors during the year and reviewed, agreed, discussed and challenged their audit plan, including their assessment of the EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE financial reporting risk profile of the Group.
The Committee As part of the external Board evaluation carried out in 2014, discussed the views and conclusions of KPMG regarding the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The managements treatment of significant transactions and areas Committee also carried out an assessment of its own of judgement during the year and KPMG confirmed they were performance.
Each concluded that the Committee is performing satisfied that these had been treated appropriately in the effectively.
Nevertheless, the Committee agreed that to enhance financial statements.
its effectiveness it would seek opportunities for all Committee members to visit a key accounting and reporting centre.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS As a result of the tender performed in 2013, shareholders approved Byron Grote the appointment of KPMG as the Groups external auditor at the Chairman of the Audit Committee 2014 AGMs in May and throughout the year the Committee oversaw Mary Ma and helped facilitate a smooth transition from the former auditors.
Hixonia Nyasulu The Committee has approved the extension of the current external John Rishton Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 57
