CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED SHAREHOLDER PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS essential or material to the business of the Group.
Other than the Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually Foundation Agreements referred to on page 41, we believe we do or together hold at least 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of not have any such contracts or arrangements.
shares or depositary receipts issued for NV shares.
Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV THE NETHERLANDS can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings to deal with NV complies with almost all of the principles and best specific resolutions.
practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Dutch Code, which is available on the Commissie Corporate Shareholders of PLC may propose resolutions if they individually Governances website.
or together hold shares representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold on average 100 each www.
nl in nominal value of PLC share capital can require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
PLC shareholders holding in Statements required by the Dutch Code and explanations of the aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary shares are able to NV compliance position are set out below.
convene a General Meeting of PLC.
Non-Financial Performance Indicator: In determining the level REQUIRED MAJORITIES and structure of the remuneration of the Executive Directors, Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC General among other things, the results, the share price performance Meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are and non-financial indicators relevant to the long-term objectives other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs of the Company, with due regard for the risks to which variable Articles of Association.
For example, there are special remuneration may expose the enterprise, shall be taken into requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the account bpp II.
Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate responsibility and sustainability and is keen to ensure focus on key A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only financial performance measures which we believe to be the drivers be made by the NV Board.
A proposal to alter the Articles of of shareholder value creation and relative total shareholder return.
Association of PLC can be made either by the PLC Board or by Unilever therefore believes that the interests of the business and requisition of shareholders in accordance with the UK Companies shareholders are best served by linking our long-term share plans Act 2006.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in PLCs to such measures as described above, and which are further set Articles of Association, PLCs Articles of Association may be out in the Directors Remuneration Report, and has therefore not amended by a special resolution.
Proposals to alter the provisions included a non-financial performance indicator.
in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively relating to the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings Risk Management and control: With regard to financial reporting of the holders of the NV special ordinary shares and the PLC risks, as advised by the Audit Committee as described in its deferred stock.
The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC report on pages 56 and 57, the NV Board believes that the risk can be found on our website.
management and control systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements do not contain any errors of material www.
com corporategovernance importance and the risk management and control systems have worked properly in 2014 bpp II.
The statements in this paragraph are not statements in accordance with the requirements RIGHT TO HOLD SHARES of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations on the Retention Period of Shares: The Dutch Code recommends that right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of shares granted to the Executive Directors without financial NV and PLC imposed by Dutch or English law.
consideration shall be retained for a period of at least five years or until at least the end of the employment, if this period is shorter bpp II.
Our remuneration policy requires Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever.
In addition, Executive Directors are required to hold 100% of the shares needed to maintain their minimum shareholding requirement until 12 months CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE after they leave Unilever and 50% of these shares for 24 months after they leave Unilever.
GENERAL We conduct our operations in accordance with internationally Severance Pay: It is our policy to set the level of severance accepted principles of good governance and best practice, payments for Directors at no more than one years salary, whilst ensuring compliance with the corporate governance unless the Boards, on the recommendation of the Compensation requirements applicable in the countries in which we operate.
Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given circumstances Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements or unless otherwise dictated by applicable law bpp II 2.8. legislation, codes and or standards in the Netherlands, the UK and the US and in this section we report on our compliance Financing Preference Shares: The voting rights of the 6% and 7% against these.
cumulative preference shares issued by NV are based on their nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
NV agrees with the MATERIAL CONTRACTS principle in the Dutch Code that the voting rights of any newly issued Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the preference shares should be based on their economic value rather Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of than on their nominal value bpp IV.
1.2, but cannot unilaterally the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required reduce voting rights of its outstanding preference shares.
to provide information on contracts and other arrangements 46 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company: from that for which the remainder of the Directors Report is NV confirms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the prepared which is the calendar year 2014. sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily to block future hostile public offers for its shares bpp IV.
Emissions of CO from manufacturing tonnes, 2 Nor does NV have any constructions whose specific purpose 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 1 October 2012 is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from to 30 September 2013 appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through a Scope 1 929,360 tonnes CO 1,013,690 tonnes CO 2 2 public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not, Scope 2 919,803 tonnes CO 939,457 tonnes CO 2 2 under Dutch law, preclude the continued right of the board of Total Scope 1 & 2 1,849,163 tonnes CO 1,953,147 tonnes CO 2 2 the company to exercise its powers.
Intensity ratio 91.93 kg CO per tonne of production 2 98.85 kg CO per tonne of production 2 Corporate Governance Statement: NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate governance as referred to in article Emissions data includes material sources of Scope 1 and 2 2a of the decree on additional requirements for annual reports emissions that have been subject to external assurance, ie Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag with emissions of CO from energy used in manufacturing.
Emissions 2 effect from 1 January 2010 the Decree.
The information required to from the combustion of biogenic fuels biomass, fuel crops etc at be included in this corporate governance statement as described in our manufacturing sites are reported separately to other Scope 1 articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can be found on our website.
and 2 emissions, as recommended by the GHG Protocol, and excluded from our intensity ratio calculation.
com corporategovernance Our GHG data does not include minor emissions sources that are THE UNITED KINGDOM beyond our boundary of financial control or that are not material.
PLC, being a company that is incorporated in the UK and listed For example, emissions of CO from energy used in our offices 2 on the London Stock Exchange, is required to state how it has and warehouses are excluded, although we continue to drive applied the main principles and how far it has complied with the improvements in these areas through our USLP targets.
The data provisions set out in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code also excludes Scope 3 emissions including consumer use of our UK Code, which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils products which we report as part of our USLP see below.
In 2014 PLC complied with all UK Code provisions.
One of the three big goals of the USLP is to halve the www.
uk environmental footprint of the making and use of our products by 2020 see page 11.
This is expressed on a per consumer use basis Risk Management and Control: Our approach to risk management ie a single use, portion or serving of a product and measures and systems of internal control is in line with the recommendations the GHG emissions associated with the lifecycle of a product from in the report on Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors raw materials to manufacturing to consumer use and disposal.
on the UK Combined Code The Turnbull guidance.
It is Unilevers To calculate this we consider emissions spanning Scopes 1, 2 and practice to bring acquired companies within the Groups 3.
See page 11 and our online Unilever Sustainable Living Report governance procedures as soon as is practicable and in any event 2014 to be published in May 2015 for further detail.
by the end of the first full year of operation.
page 11 of the Strategic Report Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions: As part of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP, we have set ambitious www.
com sustainable-living eco-efficiency targets which include carbon dioxide CO 2 emissions from energy used in manufacturing as well as water Progress During the Year: Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions during and waste and targets for the new factories we are building.
the reporting period have demonstrated significant reduction compared to the previous reporting period.
They have also In line with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and decreased significantly compared to the 2008 baseline year of the Directors Report Regulations 2013 our greenhouse gas target to reduce GHG in manufacturing in the USLP 2008 baseline.
performance is set out below.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Absolute emissions reduced by 5.3% compared to the previous GHG Protocol to calculate emissions of carbon dioxide from the 12 months a reduction of 7.0% per tonne of production and by combustion of fuels and the operation of facilities Scope 1 and over 930,000 tonnes 37% per tonne of production compared from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2 for to the 2008 baseline.
Some of the biggest contributors to our our manufacturing facilities.
reductions in CO emissions from energy used in manufacturing during the reporting year were: Carbon emission factors are used to convert energy used in manufacturing to emissions of CO.
Carbon emission factors for 2 energy savings through adoption of a wide range of fuels are provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate technologies, behaviours and the sharing of best practice.
Energy use reduced by 7.2% per tonne of production during the reporting period compared to the previous 12 months: and Carbon emission factors for electricity reflect the country or investment in cost-effective renewable energy technologies.
sub-region where each manufacturing site is located and are At the end of the calendar year, the number of manufacturing provided by the International Energy Agency IEA and local sites that use either renewable fuels or other renewable regulatory authorities, for example the United States energy generated on site increased to 50 out of our total of 247.
Environmental Protection Agency US EPA.
We have selected an intensity ratio based on production: this aligns with our PwC assured.
For further details and the basis of preparation see our website.
long-standing reporting of manufacturing performance.
com ara2014 downloads The GHG data relates to emissions during the 12-month period from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014.
This period is different Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Employee Involvement and Communication: Unilevers UK plan participants.
Furthermore, Dutch law and NVs Articles of companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult and Association require shareholder approval of equity-compensation involve employees and their representatives.
A National plans only if the Executive Directors are able to participate in such Consultative Forum comprising employees and management plans.
Under Dutch law, shareholder approval is not required for representatives meets regularly to provide a forum for discussing material revisions to equity-compensation plans unless the issues relating to all Unilever sites in the United Kingdom.
Executive Directors participate in a plan and the plan does not We recognise collective bargaining on a number of sites and contain its own procedure for revisions.
engage with employees via the Sourcing Unit Forum, which includes national officer representation from the three Attention is drawn to the Report of the Audit Committee on pages recognised trade unions.
A European Works Council, embracing 56 and 57.
In addition, further details about our corporate employee and management representatives from countries governance are provided in the document entitled The within Europe, has been in existence for several years and Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website.
provides a forum for discussing issues that extend across national boundaries.
All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared their understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code of The Directors Reports of the United Kingdom operating Business Principles and the related Code Policies.
No waiver companies contain more details about how they have from any provision of the Code of Business Principles or Code communicated with their employees during 2014.
Policies was granted in 2014 to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC requirements.
Our Code of Business Equal Opportunities and Diversity: In accordance with our Principles can be found on our website.
Code of Business Principles, Unilever aims to ensure that applications for employment from everyone are given full and www.
com corporategovernance fair consideration and that everyone is given access to training, development and career opportunities.
Every effort is also made Risk Management and Control: Following a review by the to retrain and support employees who become disabled while Disclosure Committee, Audit Committee and Boards, the CEO working within the Group.
and the CFO concluded that the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, including those Independent Auditors and Disclosure of Information to defined in the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Auditors: To the best of each of the Directors knowledge and Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December 2014 were effective, and that belief, and having made appropriate enquiries, all information subsequently until 3 March 2015, the date of the approval of the relevant to enabling the auditors to provide their opinions on Annual Report and Accounts by the Boards, there have been no PLCs consolidated and parent company accounts has been significant changes in the Groups internal controls, or in other provided.
Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable steps factors that could significantly affect those controls.
to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish that Unilever PLCs auditors are aware of any Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley such information.
Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported on THE UNITED STATES separately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Form 20-F. NYSE.
As such, both companies must comply with the requirements of US legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the NYSE, that are applicable to foreign private issuers, copies of which are available on their websites.
com We are substantially compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE applicable to foreign private issuers except as set out below.
We are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those typically followed by US companies listed on the NYSE.
Our corporate governance practices are primarily based on the requirements of the UK Listing Rules, the UK Code and the Dutch Code but substantially conform to those required of US companies listed on the NYSE.
The only significant way in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under Section 303A Corporate Governance Standards of the NYSE is that the NYSE rules require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions thereto, with certain limited exemptions.
The UK Listing Rules require shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans only if new or treasury shares are issued for the purpose of satisfying obligations under the plan or if the plan is a long-term incentive plan in which a director may participate.
Amendments to plans approved by shareholders generally only require approval if they are to the advantage of the 48 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
