CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their dates of appointments and their other major appointments is set ABOUT UNILEVER out on page 54.
Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever PLC PLC, together with their group companies have, since the Unilever Group was formed in 1930, The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Group operated as nearly as practicable as a single economic entity.
This to the CEO with the exception of the following matters which are is achieved by special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, and PLC, together with a series of agreements between NV and PLC corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall which are together known as the Foundation Agreements described strategy for the Group and approval of significant transactions or below.
These agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures management, operations, shareholders rights, purpose and and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing mission and can be found on our website.
The CEO is responsible to the Boards and is able to delegate any of his powers and discretions which he does to The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the members of the ULE.
The ULE is chaired by and reports to the shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if CEO.
The biographies of ULE members are on page 55. they held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
BOARD COMMITTEES Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the The Boards have established four Board Committees: the same financial periods and accounting policies.
Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Nominating and Corporate The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their Governance Committee.
The terms of reference of these respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for Committees can be found on our website and the reports of the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall each Committee can be found on pages 56 to 77.
Attendance exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses tables can be found within each Committee Report.
the intention being to create and maintain a common operating platform for the Group throughout the world.
The Deed also contains www.
com committees provisions for the allocation of assets between NV and PLC.
THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the Vice Chairman, CEO and other corporate officers and how our other, guarantee the borrowings of the other and the others Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled of financial policy, for certain significant borrowings.
They The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
enable lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation NVs Articles of Association contain, among other things, the Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and objects clause, which sets out the scope of activities that NV is training, Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers authorised to undertake.
They are drafted to give a wide scope expense and details about Board and Management Committees and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business including the Disclosure Committee.
as a holding company, to manage any companies in which it has an interest and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation www.
At the 2010 PLC AGM, the shareholders agreed that the objects clause be removed from PLCs Articles of Association so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange BOARD EFFECTIVENESS listings.
Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the other.
BOARD MEETINGS A minimum of five face-to-face meetings are planned throughout www.
com legalstructure the calendar year to consider, for example, the half-year and full-year results announcements of the Group and the Annual BOARDS Report and Accounts.
Other Board meetings and telephone The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the conferences are held to discuss matters that arise as well as management, general affairs, direction, performance and longGroup strategic issues.
Meetings of the Boards may be held term success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are one-tier either in London or in Rotterdam or such other locations as the boards, the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility Boards think fit, with one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
of the Directors is collective, taking into account their respective The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, ensures the Directors roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
During receive accurate, timely and clear information, and promotes 2014, Unilever continued to have two Executive Directors, the Chief effective relationships and open communication between the Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, who are Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
also members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE and are full-time employees of Unilever.
The majority of the Directors are Non-Executive Directors who essentially have a supervisory role.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED In 2014 the Boards met physically in January, March, May, July, As in 2011 Mr J. fide Leeuw, an independent external consultant, September and November and considered important corporate facilitated the 2014 Board evaluation.
Mr J. fide Leeuw has no other events and actions, such as: connection with the Unilever Group.
The Chairmans Statement on developing and approval of the overall strategy: page 2 describes the key actions agreed by the Boards following oversight of the performance of the business: that evaluation.
review of risks and internal risk management and control systems: page 2 of the Strategic Report authorisation of major transactions: declaration of dividends: In addition to the evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, each convening of shareholders meetings: year the Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the nominations for Board appointments: performance and contribution of each Director which includes review of Directors remuneration policy: a one-to-one performance and feedback discussion with each review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: and Director.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman is review of corporate responsibility and sustainability, led by the Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director and the in particular the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
Chairman leads the evaluation of the CEO, both using bespoke questionnaires.
Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves ATTENDANCE annually under supervision of their respective Chairmen taking The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board into account the views of respective Committee members and meetings in 2014.
If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting the Boards.
they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the number of APPOINTMENT meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
In seeking to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions Main Board which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election as Directors.
a Michael Treschow 7 7 b Anyone being elected as a Director of NV must also be elected as Kees Storm 6 7 c a Director of PLC and vice versa.
Therefore, if an individual fails Paul Polman 7 7 c to be elected to both companies he or she will be unable to take Jean-Marc Hut 7 7 Laura Cha 7 7 his or her place on either Board.
These provisions of the Articles Louise Fresco 7 7 cannot be changed without the permission, in the case of NV, Ann Fudge 7 7 of the holders of the NV special ordinary shares and, in the case d Charles Golden 3 3 of PLC, of the holders of the PLC deferred stock.
Byron Grote 7 7 Mary Ma 7 7 The report of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Hixonia Nyasulu 7 7 Committee NCGC on pages 60 and 61 describes the work Sir Malcolm Rifkind 6 7 of the NCGC in Board appointments and recommendations John Rishton 7 7 e for re-election.
In addition, shareholders are able to nominate Feike Sijbesma 1 1 Paul Walsh 7 7 Directors.
The procedure for shareholders to nominate Directors can be found in the Appointment procedure for NV & PLC a Chairman b Directors document under download links on our website.
Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director c To do so they must put a resolution to both the NV and PLC Executive Director d AGMs in line with local requirements.
Directors are appointed Retired from the Boards on 14 May 2014 e Appointed to the Boards with effect from 1 November 2014 by shareholders by a simple majority vote at each AGM.
com boardsofunilever The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive Directors present, to consider specific agenda items DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND TRAINING set by them, usually four or five times a year.
In 2014 they met five All Directors receive induction on joining the Boards and the times.
The Chairman, or in his absence the Vice-Chairman Senior Chairman ensures that ongoing training is provided for Directors Independent Director, chairs such meetings.
by way of site visits, presentations and circulated updates at and between Board and Board Committee meetings on, among other BOARD EVALUATION things, Unilevers business, environmental, social and corporate Each year the Boards formally assess their own performance governance, regulatory developments and investor relations with the aim of helping to improve the effectiveness of both the matters.
Details of the training provided to the Directors in 2014 Boards and the Committees and at least once every three years can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 2. an independent third party facilitates the evaluation.
The evaluation consists of individual interviews with the Directors page 2 of the Strategic Report by the Chairman and also, every three years, by the external evaluator.
These interviews complement our annual process of INDEPENDENCE AND CONFLICTS completion by all Directors of three full and confidential online As the Non-Executive Directors make up the Committees of evaluation questionnaires on our Boards, CEO and Chairman.
the Boards, it is important that they can be considered to be The detailed Board questionnaire invites comments on a number independent.
Each year the Boards conduct a thorough review of key areas including Board responsibility, operations, of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or connected effectiveness, training and knowledge.
persons, relevant relationships referencing the criteria set out in The Governance of Unilever which is derived from the relevant best practice guidelines in the Netherlands, UK and US.
42 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
