REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS, MEMBERSHIP STATUS ROLE AND MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE AND ATTENDANCE The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, experience, ATTENDANCE independence and knowledge on the Boards and for drawing up selection criteria, ongoing succession planning and Kees Storm 7 7 appointment procedures.
It also has oversight of all matters Chairman of the Nominating and relating to corporate governance and brings any issues in this Corporate Governance Committee respect to the attention of the Boards.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind 7 7 The Committees terms of reference are set out in The Michael Treschow 7 7 Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website at www.
During the year, This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their the Committee reviewed the Committees terms of reference attendance at meetings during 2014.
If Directors are unable to attend to ensure they remained in line with relevant corporate a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda governance guidelines and to determine whether its items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the responsibilities are properly described.
The amended terms number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
The Committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014 Committee.
Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2014 or part thereof were the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief HR Director and Unilever Leadership Officer and the Group Secretary.
Executive Succession Planning In 2014 the Committee met seven times.
At the start of the year External Board evaluation the Committee considered the results of the Committees annual self-evaluation for 2013 and used these to help create an annual plan for meetings for 2014.
PRIORITIES FOR 2015 APPOINTMENT AND RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Re-appointment: Non-Executive Directors normally serve for Recommendations for new Non-Executive a maximum of nine years.
The schedule the Committee uses for orderly succession planning of Non-Executive Directors can Directors be found on our website at www.
All Planning for Chairman succession existing Executive and Non-Executive Directors, unless they are Monitoring of emerging Corporate Governance retiring, submit themselves for evaluation by the Committee every developments year.
An Executive Director stops holding executive office on ceasing to be a Director.
The Chairman will inform the Committee Active participation in relevant Corporate of the outcomes of his discussions with each Director on individual Governance consultations performance.
Based upon the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and the continued good performance of individual Directors, the Committee recommends to each Board a list of Directors for re-election at the relevant companys AGMs.
In 2014, Charles Golden decided not to put himself forward for re-election at the 2014 AGMs in May 2014.
The Committee proposed the nomination of all other Directors.
Directors are appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote at the AGMs.
Appointment: Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may seek the services of specialist recruitment firms and other external experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills and expertise.
The Committee reviews candidates presented by the recruitment firm, or recommended by Directors and members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE, and all members of the Committee are involved in the interview process before making their recommendations to the Boards for approval.
The Committee also recommends to the Boards candidates for election as Chairman and Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director.
When recruiting the Committee will take into account the profile of Unilevers Boards of Directors set out in the The Governance of Unilever which is in line with the recommendations of applicable governance regulations and best practice.
Pursuant to the profile the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors who are independent of Unilever, free from any conflicts of interest and are able to allocate sufficient time to perform their responsibilities effectively.
With respect to composition and qualities, the Boards should be in keeping with the size of Unilever, its portfolio, culture and geographical spread and its status as a 60 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 listed company.
The objective pursued by the Boards is to have a PROFILE OF UNILEVERS BOARDS OF DIRECTORS variety of age, gender, expertise, social background and nationality and, wherever possible, the Boards should reflect DESIRED EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Unilevers consumer base and take into account the footprint and In view of Unilevers objectives and activities, it is important strategy of the Group.
that the Boards have sufficient financial literacy, have at least one financial expert and are composed in such a way that the In 2014, the Committee engaged the services of Russell Reynolds following expertise and experience are present in one or Associates, an executive search agency, to assist with the more of its members: recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Russell Reynolds Executive management experience and knowledge of Associates, who also assist Unilever with the recruitment of corporate governance issues at main board level with senior executives, helped to identify Feike Sijbesma as a potential a company comparable in size and international spread candidate.
The Committee recommended to the Boards that Feike of activities with multiple stock exchange listings: Sijbesma be nominated as a new Non-Executive Director at the Understanding of human resources and remuneration 2014 AGMs.
In May 2014 the AGMs resolved to appoint Feike and in large international companies: his appointment took effect on 1 November 2014.
Feike is a Experience in financial administration, accounting policies leading business figure and brings significant additional expertise and internal control: to the Boards, including in the important areas of food, nutrition Risk management of multinationals with share listings: and sustainability.
Understanding of the markets where Unilever is active: Experience in and understanding of the fast-moving Succession planning: In consultation with the Committee, the consumer goods FMCG market: Boards review both the adequacy of succession planning Knowledge of marketing and commercial expertise: processes and the actual succession planning at each of Board Awareness of corporate social responsibility issues: and and ULE level.
Experience with R&D in those fields where Unilever is active.
The Committee, on behalf of the Boards, continued during 2014 to consider succession planning for the Boards given that Byron PROFILE Grote and Kees Storm Vice-Chairman Senior Independent This profile guides the Nominating and Corporate Director are expected to retire at the AGMs in May 2015 and Governance Committee and the Boards on the occasion Michael Treschow the Chairman, and Hixonia Nyasulu are of the nomination of Directors.
It is reviewed and updated expected to retire in May 2016.
The Committee actively engaged by the Boards periodically.
with the Boards in 2014 on potential Non-Executive Director candidates and on the profile of a future Chairman.
In addition, during 2014, the Committee consulted with the Chief Executive Officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management changes including changes to the ULE.
DIVERSITY POLICY Unilever has long understood the importance of diversity within our workforce because of the wide range of consumers we connect with globally.
This goes right through our organisation, starting with the Boards.
The Boards feel that gender is only one part of diversity, and Unilever Directors will continue to be selected on the basis of their wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight.
Unilevers Board Diversity Policy, which is reviewed by the Committee each year, can be found on our website at www.
The Committee also reviewed and considered relevant recommendations on diversity and remains pleased that over 40% of our Non-Executive Directors are women.
EVALUATION As part of the external Board evaluation carried out in 2014, the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own performance, Each concluded that the Committee is performing effectively.
Nevertheless, the Committee agreed that, to enhance its effectiveness, it would give fuller feedback to the Boards on the appointment process of Non-Executive Directors and arrange for the external recruitment firm used to present to the Boards.
Kees Storm Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Sir Malcolm Rifkind Michael Treschow Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 61
