GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board composition Delegation of authority As at 31 December 2014, the Board comprised a Non-Executive The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to four Chairman, one Executive Director and eight Non-Executive Directors, Committees, namely the Audit Committee, the EHS&S Committee, of whom seven were independent.
the Nomination & Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee.
The membership, Chairmanship and activities of each Board changes during 2014 of these Committees are set out in each Committee report on As noted in the Chairmans Statement, two Non-Executive Directors left pages 59 to 63 and as part of the Remuneration Report.
David Hodgson decided not to stand for re-election at the Companys 2014 AGM and Rick McCreary stepped down from the Board effectiveness Board in August 2014.
There were no new Board appointments during Board meetings and attendance the reporting period.
Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at Board meetings.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken Retirement and re-election by the majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting are In line with the requirements for annual re-election under the UK determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, Corporate Governance Code, all existing Directors will offer themselves Acacias Articles of Association do not provide the Chairman with a for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board determines all second or casting vote.
All Directors are required to take decisions Directors to be eligible for re-election.
objectively and in the best interests of the Company.
As part of their duties as Directors, Non-Executive Directors are expected to apply Board leadership independent judgement to contribute to issues of strategy and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer performance and to scrutinise the performance of management.
In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, and their related responsibilities, are separated.
The divisions The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at of responsibility and the specifications of each role are set out in writing such other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
The Board and reviewed periodically as part of annual corporate governance met a total of eight times in 2014.
Five meetings were held in person, reviews.
Responsibilities are divided so as to ensure that the Chairman and three meetings were held by teleconference.
Details of individual remains principally responsible for the leadership of the Board and attendance are provided in the table opposite.
From time to time, the ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the Board schedules meetings so as to allow for a meeting to be held in development and determination of the Companys strategy and Tanzania, if appropriate, in order to provide for further access to the overall commercial objectives.
The Chief Executive Officer is primarily wider Acacia workforce.
During the year one Board meeting was held in responsible for all executive management matters affecting Acacia person in Tanzania as part of the Directors annual site visit to operations.
and is principally responsible for running the Companys business.
All members of executive management report directly to him.
Board briefings and development The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports Senior Independent Director outlining all material operational, financial and strategic developments.
Mr Tomsett is Acacias Senior Independent Director SID.
The These ensure that Board members remain properly briefed on the responsibilities and duties of the SID are determined in accordance performance and financial position of the Group on a continuous basis.
with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board and Committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings to allow In particular, the SID is required to: Directors to be briefed in advance of discussions.
Board meetings include a quarterly operational and financial performance review to act as a sounding board for the Chairman: ensure that, in addition to specific scheduled matters and any other act as an intermediary for other Directors, when necessary: business, core business performance is monitored and assessed on a ensure that an annual appraisal of the Chairman is conducted by continuous basis.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings, all Directors the Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present: and have access to members of the Senior Leadership Team and to whatever further information they need to perform their duties and to satisfy be available to shareholders for discussion purposes, in cases where their responsibilities.
Acacias independent Non-Executive Directors contact between such shareholders and the Chairman and or CEO and Committee Chairmen meet with members of the Senior Leadership has been ineffective or is otherwise inappropriate.
Team to receive more in-depth briefings on Board and Committee matters whenever required or requested.
In addition, all Directors Matters reserved continue to have free access to visit operations outside scheduled Board There is a schedule of matters that the Board has specifically reserved arrangements and each Director is expected to participate in at least for its decision.
This schedule was reviewed and updated during the year one operational site visit per year.
Board training and development and includes matters such as setting the Groups strategic aims and needs are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Ordinarily, training standards objectives, approving significant contractual commitments including and requirements form part of Board evaluation criteria.
Directors may merger and acquisition activity, approving capital-raising, approving take independent professional advice, as necessary, at the Companys changes to the Groups share capital and corporate structure, approving expense in the furtherance of their duties.
In addition to this, each Board financial reports and ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal Committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at the control and risk management.
Companys expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the Committee in the performance of its functions.
54 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Internal control In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted an annual The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with and internal control systems for the reporting period.
The review covered this responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance systems for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks that controls.
In conjunction with Acacias internal audit function and members the Group faces, which have been in place throughout the year and of the Senior Leadership Team, the Board conducted a specific assessment up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
For 2014 purposes, of internal controls, which considered all significant aspects of internal Acacias system of internal controls and risk management takes into control for the reporting period.
During the course of its review of the account the recommendations contained in the Turnbull Guidance on system of internal control, the Board did not identify or hear of any Internal Systems and Controls published by the Financial Reporting failings or weaknesses that it determined to be material.
Therefore Council in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is a confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Acacias business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Additional information regarding the internal control and risk management absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
process specifically in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is provided as The Board principally bases its monitoring of internal controls on its part of the Audit Committee report and the notes to the consolidated review of management reports and assessments, and on the quarterly financial statements.
reports it receives on the status of Acacias internal control environment.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys internal controls and risk This is supported by the risk profile reviews that Acacias internal audit management framework and systems: during 2015 the Board will assess function carries out to help the Board identify and manage the most them against the enhanced assessment requirements introduced by the significant risks and events that could affect the Companys operations, 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, taking into account financials and performance.
Where necessary, the Board is assisted by the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related its Committees in reviewing internal systems and controls, particularly Financial and Business Reporting that has been introduced to replace the Audit Committee, which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness the Turnbull Guidance for financial reporting periods commencing on or of the Groups internal control and financial risk management systems.
An overview of the governance structure used for Acacias approach to risk management and the processes and procedures used in the context of risk management is provided on pages 22 and 23 of this Annual Report.
Audit Compensation Nomination & EHS&S Board Committee Committee Governance Committee Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible Current Directors Kelvin Dushnisky 8 8 5 5 2 2 Brad Gordon 8 8 Peter Tomsett 8 8 7 7 5 5 2 2 Ambassador Juma V. 8 8 2 2 4 4 Mwapachu Andre Falzon 8 8 7 7 Michael Kenyon 8 8 5 5 Graham Clow 8 8 4 4 Steve Lucas 6 8 4 5 Rachel English 8 8 7 7 4 4 Stephen Galbraith 6 8 Former Directors David Hodgson 1 2 1 2 Rick McCreary 3 3 Kelvin Dushnisky stepped down from the Compensation Committee and was replaced by Graham Clow following year end.
David Hodgson stepped down from the Board in April 2014 and Rick McCreary stepped down from the Board in August 2014.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 55 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Majority shareholder In addition, as a result of recent Listing Rule changes, the Listing Rules Barrick is the Group majority shareholder, holding approximately 64% of now require premium listed companies with controlling shareholders Acacias issued shares as at the date of this report.
Acacias relationship to provide a confirmation in their annual reports that all of the with Barrick is governed by the terms of a Relationship Agreement, the independence provisions contained in their relationship agreements principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Acacia Group is capable have been complied with.
In line with this requirement, the Board has of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick Group and that assessed Barrick and Acacias compliance with the Relationship any transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted Agreements independence requirements, as amended, and has at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Relationship assessed compliance with these requirements, in line with practices Agreement will continue for so long as Acacia is listed on the London employed in any event since the IPO.
As such, the Board can confirm Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or controls at least 15% of Acacias that Acacia has complied with the independence requirements stated issued share capital or votingrights.
above since their adoption and, so far as the Board is aware, Barrick and its associates have also complied with these requirements.
In this The Relationship Agreement provides Barrick with certain Director regard, all members of the Board support the giving of this statement appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows: and no independent Non-Executive Director has raised any objections in thisregard.
Barrick percentage shareholding Barrick Director appointment rights 40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive AGM Directors and the maximum that may Acacias 2015 AGM will be held on 23 April 2015 at 10.00 am UK time.
be appointed under the UK Corporate The business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Companies Governance Code Act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the UK Corporate 25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive Directors Governance Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the and one less than the maximum number Audit, Compensation, EHS&S and Nomination & Governance Committees of Non-Executive Directors that may be will be available to answer questions put to them by shareholders at the appointed under the UK Corporate meeting.
The AGM Notice is included in the documentation that has been Governance Code provided with this Annual Report and is also available on the Companys website.
In accordance with best practice, the notice has been sent to 15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive Director shareholders at least 20 business days prior to the date of the meeting.
and two less than the maximum number of Non-Executive Directors Conflicts of interest Mr Dushnisky and Mr Galbraith are nominee Directors appointed by In addition to Director appointment rights, and subject to certain exceptions, Barrick.
These individuals hold a number of cross directorships with as part of the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Barrick has undertaken members of the Barrick Group, which give rise to situations in which that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the exploration of these Directors could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, gold or silver in Africa or acquire, whether through an asset purchase or possibly may conflict, with those of Acacia.
In addition, as a result or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in Africa of their employment within the Barrick Group, these individuals also that competes with Acacia without giving Acacia the option to exercise hold interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan and other certain rights of first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or more employee incentive plans.
of the issued share capital or voting rights of Acacia.
Acacia has given a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in this regard.
Certain other members of Acacias senior management team hold interests under Barricks stock option plan as a result of prior Acacia entered into the Relationship Agreement at the time of its initial employment within the Barrick Group.
These interests were acquired public offering in 2010.
During the year we amended the Relationship prior to joining Acacia and are not deemed to be material interests.
Agreement to ensure full compliance with the independence requirements introduced to the Listing Rules, which took effect in November 2014.
The Companies Act 2006 requires directors to avoid situations where Following these amendments the Relationship Agreement expressly they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may providesthat: possibly conflict, with company interests.
However, the Act does allow directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential i any and all transactions with Barrick or its associates shall be conflicts of interest where a companys articles of association contain conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: a provision to that effect.
Acacias Articles of Association contain such ii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will take any action that will provision and a procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, prevent Acacia from complying with its obligations under the Listing the conflicts outlined above were declared and authorised by the Board.
Rules: and iii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
56 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or potential Board and Board Committee performance assessments for 2014 conflict of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required to notify were conducted by means of self-assessment, rather than external the Company of any material changes in positions or situations that have facilitation.
This is due to the fact that the Board prioritised its time already been considered and any new situations.
In addition, Directors are this year on core matters required to be performed in order to required to declare interests in potential or actual transactions and are complete the Companys re-branding initiatives and to complete the required to abstain from voting on such transactions, subject to permitted execution of operational and cost control reviews during the year, exceptions.
If a question arises as to whether any interest of a Director which supported the Companys achievement of 2014 operational prevents him or her from voting or being counted in a quorum in the and financial guidance objectives.
The Board remains mindful of context of a potential or actual transaction, the matter is referred to the the timing requirements for the external facilitation of performance Chairman, whose findings are final and conclusive.
In the context of reviews and has committed to execute the 2015 performance questions relating to any such conflict of the Chairman, the question may evaluation in line with this requirement Provision B.
6.2. ultimately be decided by a resolution of the other Directors.
The Board Acacia has not adopted a formal diversity policy: however, we ensure reviews conflicts of interest on a periodic basis and maintains a record that all recruitment is conducted on the basis that we hire the best of all declared conflicts.
candidate for all positions, at all levels, including Board and senior management positions, irrespective of gender or race Provision B.
Specifically as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the Relationship Agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement Lastly, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Board arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Acacias of the Acacia Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of position and prospects in its external reporting.
Accordingly, the Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to a Directors were responsible for the preparation and approval of this conflict of interest between Acacia and any Director appointed by Barrick, Annual Report and consider the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014, any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further Acacias performance, business model and strategy.
action in relation to such matter.
Save for the matters set out above, no other conflicts of interest were disclosed to the Board during the Acacias external auditors have reviewed those parts of this statement, reporting period.
which they are required to review under the Listing Rules.
In addition to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, as part of Corporate governance compliance commitments given in connection with Acacias secondary listing on the For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium listing on Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the Board has undertaken to comply with the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, Acacia is required to the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the Tanzanian Capital make certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required by Markets and Securities Authority to the extent that these requirements are the 2012 edition UK Corporate Governance Code, which is available at equivalent to applicable UK corporate governance standards.
Accordingly, this report explains how Acacia has applied of any conflict between the two, the requirements of the UK Corporate the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2014.
Generally, Acacia seeks to comply with all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code wherever possible and for the reporting year it is the Boards view that Acacia has complied with all such provisions, save for the following: Mr Dushnisky was not independent on appointment as Chairman and an external search consultancy was not used in connection with his appointment.
Given Mr Dushniskys experience within the mining sector, his skill set and his familiarity with the operating and geographical environment in which the Companys assets are located, the Board believes his appointment to be in the best interests of the Company irrespective of this Provisions A.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 57
