STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Andrew Wray, age 51 Katrina White, age 39 Michelle Ash, age 42 Chief Financial Officer General Counsel and Company Secretary Executive General Manager, Planning and Business Improvement Andrew Wray was appointed as CFO in September Katrina White joined Acacia in December 2010, Michelle Ash joined Acacia in December 2013 2013, having spent three years as Head of having previously been employed by Barrick, and has more than 20 years experience in Corporate Development and Investor Relations where she served as Regional General Counsel the mining and manufacturing industries in at Acacia.
Previously he was employed by and Company Secretary for Barrick Australia executive, managerial, advisory and consultancy JP Morgan Cazenove where he was a Director Africa, subsequently Barrick Australia Pacific, roles.
Prior to joining Acacia, Michelle was Head in the Corporate Finance team.
Prior to joining Barrick, of Alliance Planning and Co-ordination for the 15 years of experience in advising a range of Katrina was employed as a senior associate BHP Mitsubishi Alliance.
Prior to this she was mining and other companies in their capitalat Hunt & Humphry in Australia.
Katrina has General Manager Strategy for MMG where her raising activities and in other strategic objectives.
an Honours degree in Law from the University focus was to develop business and growth Prior to joining JP Morgan, Andrew worked of Western Australia.
She is admitted to practice strategies.
She has also held General Manager for the Kuwait Investment Office in London, as a barrister and solicitor in Western Australia, Operations, Strategy Development and Projects dealing with their portfolio of investments in the High Court of Australia and the Federal roles in a number of global mining companies.
Andrew holds a Bachelor of Arts Honours Court of Australia.
Michelle holds a Bachelor of Civil Engineering degree in Modern Languages from University Hons from Melbourne University, a Graduate College London.
Diploma of Business from Curtin University, a Bachelors of Arts in Psychology Hons from Deakin University and an Executive MBA from Melbourne Business School.
Deodatus Mwanyika, age 52 Peter Geleta, age 51 Peter Spora, age 45 Vice President, Executive General Manager, Vice President, Exploration Corporate Affairs Organisational Effectiveness Deo Mwanyika joined Acacia in March 2010, Peter Geleta joined Acacia in May 2012 and has Peter Spora joined Acacia in March 2010 having been previously employed by Barrick extensive experience on the African continent, having previously been employed by Barrick, which he joined in 1999 and where he occupied having worked across a number of African where he served as Principal Geologist, Africa, various managerial positions over 12 years, countries in various operational and corporate from 2006 to 2008 and Exploration Manager, culminating in his appointment in 2008 as roles.
Prior to joining Acacia he held a number Africa, from 2008 to 2010.
Peter has over 19 Executive General Manager, Tanzania.
Deo holds of roles at Barrick, including Organisational years of experience as a geologist in Australia a Bachelor of Law degree with Honours from the Effectiveness Director for Barrick Africa, Human andAfrica.
He holds a Bachelor of Applied University of Dar es Salaam and a Masters in Resources Director for the Australia Pacific Science in Geology degree from the University Law from the University of Cambridge.
Deo is a Region and General Manager for Barricks Cowal of Technology, Sydney, Australia.
He is a member of the Tanganyika Law Society and the Gold Mine in New South Wales.
Before joining member of the Australian Institute of Mining East African Law Society.
Barrick, Peter worked for AngloGold Ashanti and Metallurgy AusIMM, a member of for 25 years, where he held a number of roles the Tanzanian Chamber of Minerals and including Head of Human Resources and Energy, and is a member of the Society Sustainability for AngloGold Ashantis Africa of Economic Geologists.
Operations and General Manager of the Navachab Mine in Namibia.
Peter holds an Executive MBA qualification from the University of Cape Town.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 53
