GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board skills Kelvin Dushnisky, age 51 We review Board composition regularly to ensure the Chairman of the Board range and breadth of skills provided as a result of Director appointments remains appropriate for our business.
Year appointed 2012 2 2 Skills and experience Mr Dushnisky was appointed as Chairman of the Board in February 2013, 2 having served as a Director since July 2012.
Mr Dushnisky is Co-President of Barrick and shares overall responsibility for execution of the companys 4 strategic priorities and operating plans.
He was previously Senior Executive Vice President with global responsibility for Government Relations, Permitting, Corporate Responsibility and Communications.
Mr Dushnisky joined Barrick in April 2002, with extensive international experience in project approvals, development agreements and public affairs.
Geology Mr Dushnisky holds a B. Sc.
degree from the University of Manitoba Engineering and M. Sc.
and J. D. degrees from the University of British Columbia.
He is a Financial member of the Law Society of British Columbia, the Institute of the Americas, African and regional affairs the Canadian Council of the Americas Vice-Chair and the Canadian Chamber of Commerce, among others.
Board independence The Board believes that its current composition and its Board meetings attended Committee membership size is appropriate for the Companys ongoing requirements.
8 8 Nomination & Governance Committee Independent No 3 Brad Gordon, age 52 Chief Executive Officer 7 Year appointed 2013 Non-independent Independent Skills and experience Mr Gordon was appointed as Acacias Chief Executive Officer in August 2013.
He was previously the CEO of Intrepid Mines, a Canadian and Australian listed Board diversity precious metals exploration and development company with primary operations Board appointments are made on a merit basis and in Indonesia.
Prior to his time at Intrepid, Mr Gordon was the CEO of Emperor measured against objective criteria.
Generally, we strive Mines, the Australasian subsidiary of DRDGold before it merged with Intrepid.
to attract a broad mix of individuals in order to create Before that, he held a series of progressively senior positions with Placer Dome.
a diverse workgroup to support Acacias culture.
Mr Gordon has a proven ability to deliver the maximum potential from the operations he has managed, from reducing costs and increasing production to achieving operational efficiencies and extending mine lives.
Mr Gordon holds a Mining Engineering degree from the Western Australia School of 1 Mines and an Executive MBA from INSEAD, France.
Board meetings attended Committee membership 8 8 Not applicable 9 Independent Not applicable Female Male 50 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Peter Tomsett, age 57 Ambassador Juma V. Senior Independent Mwapachu, age 72 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Year appointed 2013 Year appointed 2011 Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Tomsett has a wide range of technical, operational and senior management Ambassador Mwapachu has held a number of senior positions in both the experience in the mining industry.
He spent 20 years with Placer Dome Inc. in a public and private sector of Tanzania and was appointed as Tanzanias number of senior roles, culminating in serving as President and Chief Executive Ambassador to France from 2002 to 2006.
He was the founding Secretary Officer until its acquisition in 2006.
He has been a Director of the Minerals General of the Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture: he also served Council of Australia, the World Gold Council and the International Council for as Chairman of the Confederation of Tanzania Industries between 1996 and Mining &Metals.
He has played a leading role in the regional integration of East Africa, holding the position of Secretary General of the East African Community prior Mr Tomsett has considerable board level experience in the resources sector.
to his appointment to the Board, and currently holds the position of Global He served as Non-Executive Chairman of Equinox Minerals until its acquisition President of the Society for International Development.
in 2011, he is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Silver Standard Resources Inc and he is also a Non-Executive Director of Talisman Energy Inc.
Ambassador Mwapachu holds a Bachelor of Law degree with Honours from the University of East Africa, a postgraduate degree in International Law from the Indian Academy, and Doctorates in Literature Honoris Causa from the University of Dar es Salaam and Political Sciences Honoris Causa from the National University of Rwanda.
Board meetings attended Committee membership Board meetings attended Committee membership 8 8 Audit Committee 8 8 Nomination & Governance Committee Nomination & Governance Committee EHS&S Committee Compensation Committee Independent Independent Yes Yes Andre Falzon, age 60 Michael Kenyon, age 65 Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Year appointed Year appointed 2010 2010 Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Falzon is a senior financial executive with over 25 years of financial and Mr Kenyon has more than 35 years of experience in the mining industry and management experience within the mining industry, including a period as Vice is a geologist by training.
He is Chairman of the Board of Directors at Detour President and Controller at Barrick between 1994 and 2006.
He is a Director Gold Corporation.
He has previously been Chairman of the Board of Directors of Detour Gold Corporation and was previously a director and Audit Committee of Troon Ventures Ltd, President and Chief Executive Officer at both Canico chair of a number of publicly listed gold mining companies.
Resource Corp and Sutton Resources Ltd, and a Director of Cumberland Resources Ltd. Mr Falzon holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of Toronto, Canada and is a CA, CGA Canada.
Mr Kenyon holds a MSc Geology from the University of Alberta in Canada.
He was also the recipient of the 2005 Developer of the Year award from the Prospector and Developers Association of Canada in recognition of his accomplishments.
Board meetings attended Committee membership Board meetings attended Committee membership 8 8 Audit Committee 8 8 Compensation Committee Independent Independent Yes Yes ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 51 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Graham Clow, age 64 Steve Lucas, age 60 Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Year appointed Year appointed 2013 2013 Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Clow is currently Chairman and Principal Mining Engineer of RPA Inc.
He is a Mr Lucas is a Chartered Accountant with executive experience in the extractives senior mining executive with 40 years experience in all aspects of acquisitions, sector, particularly oil and gas, and the power sector.
He has worked internationally, exploration, feasibility, finance, development, construction, operations, and including in Tanzania, and has expertise in infrastructure finance and treasury.
Prior to joining RPA, he spent more than 20 years in senior executive Mr Lucas was Finance Director at National Grid plc from 2002 to 2010 and prior and operating positions with publicly listed mining companies and is currently to this he worked for 11 years in progressively more senior positions at Royal Non-Executive Director of Dominion Diamond Corporation.
Mr Clow is a former Dutch Shell and for six years at BG Group formerly British Gas.
He is currently Chairman of the Metal Mining Division of the Canadian Institute of Mining, a Non-Executive Director of Tullow Oil plc and Transocean Ltd. From 2004 until Metallurgy, and Petroleum CIM, and was a Member of the Committee on Ore 2011 he was a Non-Executive Director of Compass Group plc.
Reserve Definitions that established the requirements for Canadian Regulatory Mr Lucas holds a BA in Geology from Oxford University.
Mr Clow is also a Fellow of CIM and has been awarded the Metal Mining Award for contributions to the industry.
Board meetings attended Committee membership Board meetings attended Committee membership 8 8 EHS&S Committee 6 8 Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Independent Independent Yes Yes Rachel English, age 52 Stephen Galbraith, age 43 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Year appointed Year appointed 2010 2013 Skills and experience Skills and experience Ms English is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and previously Mr Galbraith has been employed by Barrick since August 2000 in treasury and held senior positions in BG Group and Royal Dutch Shell, with responsibilities finance functions, and is currently Managing Director of Barrick International spanning finance, corporate strategy, mergers and acquisitions, and business Barbados Corporation.
Mr Galbraith previously held the role of Audit Manager development.
Ms English is a Non-Executive Director of Kuwait Energy plc for .
and the Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute and was previously a Mr Galbraith holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Accountancy from Strathclyde Non-Executive Director of Petropavlovsk plc until 2013.
She is also a member University, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland of the Audit Committee of the UKs Department for International Development and is a Chartered Financial Analyst Charterholder.
and is a Non-Executive Director of Helios Social Enterprise, which she co-founded to develop renewable energy access projects in rural sub-Saharan Africa.
MsEnglish holds an MA in Politics, Philosophy & Economics from OxfordUniversity.
Board meetings attended Committee membership Board meetings attended Committee membership 8 8 Audit Committee 6 8 Not applicable EHS&S Committee Independent Independent Yes No 52 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
