Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued 02 01 Kuala Lumpur Health Campaign Hiking in Bukit Gasing 02 Global Corporate Challenge 2013 Award 01 Wellness The three key objectives for the AVEVA AVEVA is committed Our focus on wellness has increased Academic Initiative are: overthe last year.
At a global level, for the tominimising its second year running we took part in the work with universities to promote the Global Corporate Challenge, a well-being use of AVEVA products during under and carbon emissions, initiative that encourages healthy living post-graduate studies by providing both andan active lifestyle.
In 2013 we had 357 software and training support: increasing the use of colleagues take part and as an organisation work with government agencies to we became 356% more active and achieved re-skill engineers for employment in recycling opportunities a total weight loss of 1,725 lbs.
other disciplines by providing free training courses: and and reducing the Locally, our HR departments were busy work with engineering bodies to useofvaluable in2013 hosting a variety of wellness encourage graduates to pursue careers programmes.
These included free fruit in engineering.
naturalresources baskets in the UK, a Step into Spring programme in Houston, health checks in We continue to work with Young Enterprise, Hyderabad, Pilates classes in Cambridge, a business and enterprise educational and a general wellness programme in charity.
Our involvement consists of Malaysia that encouraged weight loss and colleagues volunteering to be Business introduced bike rides and hikes for teams Advisors to students studying for a range ofcolleagues.
ofqualifications, providing insight into the commercial world for these young people.
Community We are committed to the development of our global and local communities, and continually extend our involvement in educational partnerships and charitable giving.
Education partnerships The AVEVA Academic Initiative is a strategic investment that provides benefits to AVEVA, universities, and the broader engineering discipline.
34 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 Tonnes of CO e by region 2 Emissions from: Tonnes CO e 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 543 1,500 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 1,531 1,200 Scope 3 Transmission and Distribution losses 265 900 2,339 Intensity Measurement Scopes 1 and 2 600 Tonnes CO e m revenue 8.74 300 2 0% Americas Asia EMEA Greater Pacic China Environment Over 70,000 was raised last year, and here Carbon emissions are some of our highlights: Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 AVEVA is committed to minimising its carbon emissions, increasing the use of For the second year running a group of Scope 1 recycling opportunities and reducing the colleagues took part in the Cambridge use of valuable natural resources.
We are Byte Night, an IT industry charity event 543 continually improving the way in which we raising money for Action for Children.
Scope 2 capture and record our emissions data.
For Teams of men took part in Movember, a the purposed of this report, the emissions global charity event that raises money 1,531 have been calculated according to the for mens health.
Scope 3 Environmental Reporting Guidelines: In South America our colleagues initiated Including mandatory greenhouse gas an Adopt a Child campaign whereby 265 emissions reporting guidance issued by colleagues collected money, clothes, theDepartment for Environment, Food and and toys and then presented these to Rural Affairs DEFRA, and by applying children in an orphanage.
AVEVA also DEFRAs 2013 Conversion Factors.
donated furniture for the orphanage to build their own computer centre.
We have aimed for the GHG emissions to Colleagues in the Middle East raised be captured for all of our UK and overseas funds and relief items following Typhoon offices between April 2013 and March 2014.
Individual activities ranged from running On the rare occasion that the information marathons, climbing Kilimanjaro and a was not available for a particular AVEVA 24-hour golf challenge.
office, an estimate has been produced based on the ratio between the local office As an organisation, we continue to sponsor size, and our Cambridge HQ office.
arange of charities by giving corporate donations.
Organisations we have supported This is the first year in which we have over the last year include the Villiers Park collected and published our emissions data, Educational Trust, the Outward Bound Trust, and hence the 2013 14 financial year will MAGPAS and Macmillan Cancer Support.
form the baseline for future year targets.
Charitable giving For our carbon intensity ratio we have As teams and individuals, 2013 saw AVEVA measured our carbon usage as it relates to colleagues from around the globe give their our business performance, citing tonnes of money and time to raise money for charities.
2 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 3: Transmission and distribution losses 35 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report 36 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
