Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information The Audit Committee report In order to carry out its duties effectively, the Committee receives high quality and detailed information from management and the internal and external auditor regularly which is reviewed, discussed and challenged by the Committee as required.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The Audit Committees remit falls into four main areas: financial reporting, risk and the internal control environment and oversight of the external and internal audit processes.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including its Aman Mehta, Chairman, Audit Committee annual and half-year results.
Where requested by the Board, review the content of the annual report and accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit Review the Groups internal controls and risk management systems Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
and consider the effectiveness of these systems.
Make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment Membership and attendance of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee comprises the following independent NonReview the independence of the external auditor.
Executive Directors and met on four occasions during the year.
Review the scope of internal audit work.
Number of Develop policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by meetings Percentage the external auditor and monitoring thereof.
attended attendance Discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit.
Aman Mehta, Chair 4 4 100% Approve the remuneration of the external auditor.
Naresh Chandra stepped down August 2013 2 2 100% Consider any matters arising in respect of the Relationship Euan Macdonald 4 4 100% Agreement and related party transactions.
Deepak Parekh appointed June 2013 2 2 100% Monitor the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function and consider its reports.
Review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise As shown in Mr Mehtas biography on page 77, he has had extensive concerns through its whistleblowing policy.
executive and non-executive experience with a strong financial Monitor anti-bribery policies and procedures.
background in large listed companies.
The Board therefore considers Review reports from the audit committees of the Groups main that Mr Mehta has recent and relevant financial experience.
In subsidiary companies confirming that there are no material adverse addition Mr Parekh is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
All members issues that are likely to impact the Group.
of the Committee have had extensive prior senior management experience in large international organisations and are financially The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the literate.
com and are also available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its responsibility for maintaining and monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements, assessing the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal controls and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 93 Directors Report The Audit Committee report continued Operation of the Audit Committee external auditor without management being present bi-annually.
The The Committee meets at least four times a year based on Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on appropriate times in the financial reporting calendar.
The Executive the Committees activities.
The Committees agenda is based on its Directors, Chief Financial Officer, Director of MAS and Information remit outlined on the previous page as appropriate to the stage in the Technology, other members of the senior management team and the reporting cycle.
The external auditor attends meetings of the Audit external auditor regularly attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee to ensure effective communication of matters relating to Committee to report on issues and facilitate discussions with the the audit.
The Committee meets with representatives from the Audit Committee activities during the year The main areas covered by the Audit Committee during the year are summarised below: Area of responsibility Activities Financial reporting Review and approval of preliminary announcement, annual report It is one of the Committees key duties to monitor the integrity of the and financial statements.
As part of this process it reviews in detail the Review of key significant issues for year-end audit further detail on preliminary results statements, the annual report and accounts and page 96. half-year report.
The appropriateness of accounting polices used is Six monthly reviews of significant accounting issues and receipt of considered, accounting judgements are reviewed and the external reports on key accounting issues.
Details of financial reporting procedures in Review and approval of the half year report.
place are given on page 90 of the Corporate Governance report.
Review of all pending tax issues.
Review of Audit Committee report for the annual report and accounts.
Review of legal cases to ensure appropriate provisions are made and disclosed.
Review of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements including working capital forecasts, monthly projections and funding requirements.
Internal controls, risk management and governance Internal audit review including reviews of the internal control Details of the Companys internal control and risk management framework, changes to the control gradings within the Group and processes are discussed on pages 90 and 91.
The Audit Committee whistleblowing cases.
reviews these processes and output from the regular review of risks Review of the Groups risk management infrastructure, risk profile, carried out during the year by the internal audit function.
significant risks, risk matrix and resulting action plans.
Review of reports from subsidiary company audit committees.
Review of feedback from performance evaluation of the Audit Committee.
Briefing and consideration of new requirements in respect of audit tendering and UK Corporate Governance Code changes.
Briefing on cyber security and update and review of UK Bribery Act requirements.
The Audit and external auditor Review of the significant audit risks with the external auditors during the interim review and final year audit.
Consideration of external audit findings and review of significant issues raised.
Review of key audit issues and managements report.
Review of the materiality figure for the external audit.
Review of the independence of the external auditor and the provision for non-audit services.
Performance evaluation of the external auditor and recommendation for reappointment of the external auditor.
Consideration of the external audit fee.
Review of the management representation letter.
Review of the audit plan, scope of the 2014 external audit of the financial statements and key risks areas for the 2014 audit.
94 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Area of responsibility Activities Internal audit Review of internal audit observations and monitoring of implementation of any corrective actions identified.
Review of the performance of the internal audit function.
Review of 201314 internal audit plan.
Review Anti-Bribery policy and its implementation.
Annual Report review Whistleblowing procedure At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered whether The Group has in place a whistleblowing procedure that is regularly the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
This is a standalone policy which is understandable and whether it provided the necessary information summarised in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and supports for shareholders and stakeholders to assess the Companys the Groups aim of working to the highest ethical standards.
The performance, business model and strategy.
Such assessments are policy allows employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and all provided in the Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers statement external stakeholders to raise any issues of concern in confidence and and the Strategic report of this Annual Report.
The Audit Committee forms part of the Groups internal control monitoring process.
The and the Board are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts Audit Committee reviews any reports made under the whistleblowing meet this requirement as both positive and negative developments in policy and ensures appropriate actions are taken if required.
the year were considered at length.
In justifying this statement the Whistleblowing procedures have proved to be robust in that reported Audit Committee has considered the robust process which operates in cases are thoroughly investigated and appropriate actions taken.
creating the Annual Report and Accounts, including: Evaluation and verification of the inputs from the business Fraud and Bribery Act functions, to include the well-established financial reporting system The Company is committed to the elimination of fraud, with each within Vedanta to ensure accuracy and consistency: suspected case thoroughly investigated and concluded.
The Audit Progress through various levels of review, including review by the Committee reviews the actions taken by management in the elimination Executive Committee and senior management across the Group: of fraudulent practices and to promote ethical working practices.
Consideration is given to the completeness of the information and to ensuring that there are no significant omissions to enable External auditor shareholders to assess the Companys performance: The Audit Committee is pivotal in monitoring the performance of the Management Assurance Services conduct internal audit reviews external auditor and the Groups relationship with the external with conclusions and recommendations presented to the Audit auditor.
Details of how this is achieved are set out below.
Committee: Revisions to regulatory requirements are considered and The audit process incorporated to include the UK Corporate Governance Code: A detailed Audit Plan is prepared by the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, Advice is also received by the Audit Committee from external Deloitte which is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan advisers in order to make the recommendation to the Board that sets out the audit scope, key audit risks identified, materiality issues, the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole is fair, balanced and the client team working on the audit and the audit timetable.
The understandable: audit scope covers the significant components of the audit and audit Members of the Audit Committee receive an advance draft of the plans for each component and geographical location.
Each of the key Annual Report enabling them to assess and challenge whether the audit risks and the external auditors response on how it will various reports within the Annual Report are consistent and in line investigate these risks is considered by the Committee.
with their understanding of the business: A meeting of the Audit Committee is held to formally review and Significant issues sign-off the draft Annual Report: and The preparation of financial statements requires management to make A meeting of the Board is held to review and provide final sign-off.
judgements, estimates and assumptions, that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amount of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and disclosures of contingent liabilities at the date of these financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses for the years presented.
The Committee reviews whether the Groups accounting policies are appropriate, and managements estimate and judgements applied in the financial statements are reasonable.
The Committee also focused on the disclosures made in the financial statements.
Views of statutory auditors on these significant issues were also considered by the Committee.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 95 Directors Report The Audit Committee Report continued The significant issues that were considered by the Audit Committee emerging from the audit process are outlined below: Significant issues How these issues were addressed Impairment assessment of alumina refinery assets at Lanjigarh Impairment assessment of alumina refinery assets at Lanjigarh is and iron ore business at Goa and Karnataka.
considered as a significant issue due to the challenges in obtaining regulatory approvals for the refinery expansion and delays in More information is provided in Note 2 b to the financial statements.
The significant assumptions of timing of approvals was put through a stress test by the Committee and other assumptions of discount rates and commodity prices were reviewed by the Committee.
The mining ban at Karnataka was lifted and production commenced in December 2013.
The Supreme Court lifted the mining ban at Goa and business is currently awaiting issue of renewed mining leases for the commencement of mining operations at Goa.
The timing of start-up of operations post regulatory approvals which was the key consideration was reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee was also informed that the impairment assessment approach and assumptions are consistent across all business segments.
With the existence of sufficient headroom over carrying value of assets it was concluded that no impairment is required.
Revenue recognition across the business: The Committee reviewed the process and compliance around the provisional pricing sale of goods: Group revenue recognition policy and its consistent application.
The oil and gas revenue: and Committee also sought managements view on revenue recognition power tariff with GRIDCO.
The Committee was satisfied that the cut off procedures, transfer of risks and process followed for the pricing of goods were consistent and it concluded that these risks have been mitigated.
Further receivables from GRIDCO, which are being appealed following a tariff determination assessment by the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission was assessed by the Committee together with revenue recognition in terms of the requirements of IAS 18.
The tariff determination basis was also supported by an opinion from external legal counsel.
Litigation, environmental and regulatory risks.
Refer to Note 37 to the A comprehensive legal paper was placed before the Committee for its financial statements.
The mitigating factors were discussed by the Committee with senior management.
The Committee also reviewed the probable, possible and remote analysis carried out by management and disclosure of contingent liabilities in the financial statements.
In all significant disputes the management assessment was supported by legal opinions from external legal counsel.
Additional information on these matters are disclosed in A comprehensive tax paper outlining taxation disputes in respect of Note 37 to the financial statements withholding taxes following past acquisitions, eligibility of tax incentives and output taxes and other matters was placed before the committee for its consideration.
The Committee discussed these tax issues and reviewed the assessment of probable, possible and remote analysis and the process followed by management.
The contingent liability disclosure was also reviewed by the Committee.
In certain cases, views of tax experts supporting the managements assessment was also provided to the Committee.
96 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Auditor independence All other permitted non-audit services and the fees paid to the The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the external external auditor for non-audit work are reported to the Audit auditors independence and assessing their continued effectiveness.
This report includes safeguards The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the put into place to ensure that any threats to the independence of the external auditor are mitigated.
The majority of non-audit services objectivity of the external auditor.
The current external auditor, provided by the external auditor are tax advisory services, corporate Deloitte LLP, has been the Companys auditor since its listing in 2003. finance matters or transaction related work.
A separate team within The rotation of the audit partners responsibilities within Deloitte is Deloitte LLP is used to carry out non-audit work and overseen by a required by their professions ethical standards and there is also separate partner.
An analysis of non-audit fees can be found in Note rotation of key members within the audit team.
Deloitte are required 10 on page 147 to the financial statements.
to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Groups audit every five years and the last audit partner rotation was in 2010.
The audit Performance and reappointment of the external auditor partner responsible for the audit of Indian subsidiaries was rotated in Vedanta recognises the current requirements of the UK Corporate 2012, and the next rotation will take place in 2017.
Governance Code the Code and transitional guidance in relation to audit tendering, and also notes the proposed European Union text on A key part of ensuring the independence of the external auditor is to Audit Regulation and Directive and the UK Competition Commission have in place robust policies concerning matters that may affect their response to conduct further consultation on auditor tendering.
The Company has in place policies on: The independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Employment of former employees of the external auditor.
current auditors using a survey comprising a range of questions Appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services.
covering objectivity, quality and efficiency.
The Committee concluded that the results of the survey were positive: it was considered that the These policies are based on the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors current auditors continue to provide a high quality audit.
The and are regularly reviewed to ensure they are in line with best practice.
Committee was satisfied with the external audit process and that the These controls provide the Audit Committee with confidence that the independence of the external auditors was not compromised after independence of Deloitte in their audit function will be maintained.
taking into account the assessment by the Audit Committee that the New requirements introduced by the Code expect companies to put current auditors continue to be objective, independent and effective, their external audit contract out to tender at least once every 10 and the proposed resolution to reappoint them at the 2014 Annual years.
Similarly, the Companies Act 2013, enacted in India provides General Meeting.
For these reasons, the Committee recommended to that companies put their external audit contract out to tender on the Board that a resolution to reappoint them be considered at the completion of two terms of five years.
Accordingly, the Audit 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Committee are of the view that it will be less disruptive and potentially more effective if the Company align the tender of the UK external The year ahead audit contract with the requirements on auditor rotation of Indian It is expected that the Financial Reporting Council will introduce subsidiaries, which is due to occur in 2017. changes to the Code and guidance in respect of risk management, internal controls and going concern reporting following the Sharman The Audit Committee, with the assistance of the Chief Financial report.
In addition it is anticipated that EU regulation and proposals Officer and the Company Secretary, has considered at length its from the Competition Commission on audit tendering will be coming position on retendering the audit contract and agreed to put the audit into force during 2014.
The Audit Committee will be keeping these contract out to tender no later than 2017, in line with Financial developments under review to ensure compliance within required Reporting Council recommended transitional arrangements and the timescales.
Companies Act enacted in India.
This situation will be kept under strict review and if circumstances change consideration will be given In addition, the Audit Committees objectives for the forthcoming to bringing forward the date of the tender process.
year include: Implement findings from Board Evaluation process.
Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor Continued review of cyber security risks and controls.
The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Focus on oversight of Anti-Bribery Act policies and procedures.
external auditor specifies certain services which the external auditor is prohibited from undertaking in order to safeguard their objectivity Aman Mehta and independence.
This includes work relating to the financial Chairman, Audit Committee statements that will ultimately be subject to audit and the provision 14 May 2014 of internal audit services.
The policy also identifies those services which the external auditor is permitted to deliver to the Group.
These include tax advisory services, and work on mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Of the permitted services, any assignment in excess of US$100,000 may only be awarded to the external auditor with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 97
