Directors Report Nominations Committee report Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are set out in its terms of reference which can be found on the Companys website at www.
com and are also available on request from the Company Secretary.
The main responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are to: Review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the skills, experience and diversity of its members and recommend changes to the composition that are deemed necessary.
Review the policy in respect of diversity on the Board and consider Board composition in light of the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Consider candidates for appointment as either Executive or Non-Executive Directors and plan for succession in particular to the positions of the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for appointments to the Board.
Identify suitable candidates for appointments to the Board and its Committees and consider the use of external advisers to facilitate the search for candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
Anil Agarwal, Chairman, Nominations Committee Recommend to the Board whether to reappoint a Non-Executive Director either at the end of their term of office or when put forward for re-election, having regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board.
The Committee will confer with Volcan in this respect under the terms of the This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Relationship Agreement.
Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during theyear.
Operation of the Nominations Committee Other Executive Directors and members of the senior management Membership and attendance team may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee as The Nominations Committee comprises the following Directors and appropriate.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee provides met on five occasions during the year.
an update to the Board in respect of the Committees activities.
Number of Nominations Committee activities during the year meetings Percentage attended attendance The focus this year has continued to be on issues of diversity, succession planning and Board composition due to the Committees Anil Agarwal, Chairman 5 5 100% awareness of the tenure of its Non-Executive Directors.
Both the Naresh Chandra stepped down August 2013 3 3 100% Committee and Board have discussed at length the need for Euan Macdonald 5 5 100% refreshing of the Board and at the recommendation of the Aman Mehta 5 5 100% Committee, one new Non-Executive Director was appointed to the Deepak Parekh appointed August 2013 2 2 100% Board in 2012 and a further Non-Executive Director in 2013.
Recruitment process The Board considers that the composition and effective operation When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nominations of the Board is a critical component for the delivery of long-term Committee oversees the preparation of a criteria specification that is shareholder value.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for provided to an independent specialist search agency retained to reviewing the composition of the Board to ensure the right mix of conduct a global search.
In 2013, Spencer Stuart, a specialist search skills, experience, diversity and independence is present.
It also plays agency was instructed to consider a wide range of candidates taking a key role in ensuring the development of talent within the Group.
into account geographical location, nationality, gender, specific skills, knowledge and experience, and the process culminated in the appointment of Mr Deepak Parekh to the Board.
98 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information The main areas of activity of the Nominations Committee during the year are summarised below: Area of responsibility Item Board composition and succession planning Review of skills, experience and diversity and approving key search criteria for recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors.
Engagement of search consultancy to aid in recruitment process.
Review of candidates and recommendation of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Keeping under review potential candidates to address gender balance on the Board.
Review of succession planning for executive management.
Governance Evaluation of the Committees performance.
Approval of disclosures in the Nominations Committee Report in the Annual Report.
Non-Executive Director independence Review of the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors prior to recommending their reappointment by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
As part of the continual cycle to refresh the Board and to address the diversity policy has an aspirational target of achieving a minimum of issue of gender diversity, the Committee is leading the 2014 process 25% women on the Board by 2015.
We acknowledge that at present to recruit new independent Non-Executive Directors to succeed there are no women on our Board and addressing the gender balance MrAman Mehta and Mr Euan Macdonald who plan to step down to meet the target on the Board has been and will continue to remain from the Board when suitable candidates have been identified.
a top priority for the Committee.
It is essential to overcome the TheCommittee has considered comprehensive search briefs with reasons for lack of female representation to date.
These have included the fact that Vedanta operates within a traditionally male anemphasis on recruiting female members with UK listed company dominated industry.
Furthermore, due to cultural constraints and the experience to the Board.
remote geographical location of some of our operations, we face a number of challenges in addressing the gender balance within the Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Group other Group.
Women currently comprise 8.4% of the overall employee thantoprovide recruitment consultancy services to the population within the Group whereas the percentage of female NominationsCommittee.
representation across the Groups professional population is 12.4%.
Inorder to achieve our target for women on the Board, we ensure Succession planning thatwomen candidates are considered routinely as part of the Succession planning during the year turned to a focus on executive recruitmentprocess.
The Nominations Committee had been considering for some time the recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer to replace We also actively encourage and monitor the progress of women in Mr MS Mehta when he retired as part of the succession planning senior positions throughout the Group.
Initiatives this year included process.
Tom Albanese was identified as a potential candidate after reviewing the barriers to women with children in returning to work.
Mr Albanese joined Vedanta Resources Holdings supporting equal opportunities we will ensure that the pool of women Limited, the holding company of Sesa Sterlite Limited and Konkola from which management can be drawn will increase.
In April 2014, Copper Mines, as its Chairman on 16 September 2013.
This gave the Ms Lalita Gupte was appointed to the board of Sesa Sterlite Limited Committee a further opportunity to review his skills and suitability as an independent Non-Executive Director of that company, and before recommending his appointment as Chief Executive Officer to MsRoma Balwani joined the Group as Head of Communications the Board.
The Board confirmed his appointment with effect from andCorporate Social Responsibility.
The year ahead Diversity The Nominations Committee objectives for the coming year are: The Board supports the importance of having diversity of thought Review plans for nurturing talent and improving the gender balance and representation on its Board and it is one of the Nominations within the Group.
Committees tasks to ensure this is achieved.
Board diversity has been Continued focus on succession planning for the Board in order to considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to ensure a balance of skills, experience and diversity.
age, gender, race and ethnic origin, cultural and educational A commitment to increasing the participation of women across all background.
In terms of skill sets, Board members have a wide range levels of the business, not least the Board of Directors.
of knowledge and expertise ranging from corporate finance and banking to diplomacy and law.
In terms of gender, the Companys Anil Agarwal Chairman, Nominations Committee In the interim, and to ensure the smooth transition of any new and incoming Non-Executive Director, the Nominations Committee recommended that Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald 14 May 2014 serve on the Board for a further year following the nine year anniversary of their appointment.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 99
