Directors Report Corporate Governance report Dear Shareholder, As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that the Board operates effectively.
Throughout the year we have continued to develop our practices to reflect the evolution of the Groups business transformation and Board composition.
In my statement last year, I outlined that we had undertaken a review of the composition needs of the Board in the light of the Groups changing strategy and the length of tenure of our Directors.
The Board In March 2014, Mr MS Mehta stepped down as Chief Executive Officer after serving on the Board since October 2008.
The Board thanks Mr Mehta for his vision and leadership in that role over the past six years and for his outstanding contribution to the success and development of the Group since 2000, and I wish him well in the future.
Replacing Mr Mehta, I am delighted to announce the appointment of Mr Tom Albanese as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 April 2014.
As the former chief executive officer of Rio Anil Agarwal Chairman Tinto, Mr Albanese brings the vital experience necessary to drive growth and innovation throughout the Group.
In August 2013, following the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting, Mr Naresh Chandra also stepped down from the Board having served nearly nine years with the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Mr Chandra for his significant commitment, financial expertise and enthusiasm which he brought to the Group during his tenure.
Following a review by the Board and Nominations Committee the search for two new Non-Executive Directors culminated with the appointment of Mr Geoffrey Green in 2012 and Mr Deepak Parekh in 2013.
In the light of these new appointments, I am very pleased that we have been able to attract strong and diverse talent to the Board over the past 18 months.
The new appointments to the Board ensure a new perspective and fresh outlook while the longer serving members of the Board provide stability, and the knowledge and experience of the Group.
I believe that taking time to ensure that a new Non-Executive understands his duties and responsibilities as a Director is a prudent step.
Together with the Board and the Nominations Committee, I continue to review the composition of the Board to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and diversity represented on the Board, together with the length of tenure of Mr Aman Mehta and Mr Euan Macdonald, as Non-Executive Directors.
80 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Diversity and inclusion Following the publication of Lord Davies Report on diversity, we set ourselves an aspirational target to achieve a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board by 2015.
As we do not have any women on the Board at present, this remains a key priority of the Board.
Historically, the gender balance in leadership roles has been a challenge for the natural resources sector and Vedanta is no different.
However, we are determined to make serious efforts to move in a positive direction and the Group has recently appointed a female independent Non-Executive Director to the Board of Sesa Sterlite.
Further information on our progress is given in the Nominations Committee report on pages 98 and 99.
Board effectiveness and evaluation Having undertaken an  review of Board effectiveness in 2013, I led the review process again this year with the engagement of an external facilitator.
Further information on the process and outcome of the evaluation exercise is provided within this report on pages 88 to 89.
The priorities identified provide very useful feedback to strengthen our Board processes.
The governance year ahead During the year it is the intention to carry out a detailed review of ourpolicies and procedures to ensure they are relevant, align with recent changes and reflect best practice.
Annual General Meeting This year our Annual General Meeting will be held at 3.00pm on 1August 2014 at The Lincoln Centre and I would encourage you toattend and participate in the meeting.
Yours sincerely, Anil Agarwal Chairman 14 May 2014 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 81 Directors Report Corporate Governance report continued Applying the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The role of the Board As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, The Board of Directors is ultimately accountable to shareholders for Vedanta is subject to and seeks to comply with the Code which is promoting the long-term success of the Group through the creation available on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
As part of their decision The Company is required to report on how it has applied the main making processes the Directors have a responsibility to consider the principles of good governance in relation to leadership and long-term consequences of their decisions, the interests of the effectiveness of the Board, remuneration, accountability and relations Companys employees, the need to foster relationships with other with shareholders as set out in the Code.
This Corporate Governance stakeholders, the impact of the Companys operations on the Report provides details of our approach to governance, our policies, environment and the need to maintain high standards of business.
processes and structures and explains how we have complied with the This is achieved by ensuring its governance processes, as described main principles of the Code.
Further details of how the Company has below, are comprehensive and robust.
applied the provisions of the Code are also contained in the reports of each Board Committee and the Directors Remuneration Report.
The duties of the Board are set out in its terms of reference including those matters specifically reserved for decision by the Disclosures on share capital and related matters as required by the Board: Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the Setting the strategic objectives of the Group: Directors Report.
Ensuring that adequate resources are provided to enable the Group to meet the objectives: Statement of compliance with the Code Monitoring the progress made by management against the It is the Boards view that the Company has, throughout the year Groups objectives: ended 31 March 2014, fully complied with all the provisions of the Setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring risk is effectively Code, with the exception of the following: managed and robust internal controls and risk management systems are in place: Code Provision A.
3.1 Approval of the Groups annual and half year reports and Mr Anil Agarwal was appointed as Executive Chairman in 2005.
Mr financial statements: Agarwal was the founder of the businesses of Vedanta Resources and Declaration of the interim dividend and the recommendation steered the growth of the Group since its inception in 1976 including of the final dividend: the flotation of Vedanta Resources Plc on the London Stock Exchange.
Approval of the business plan and capital expenditure budget This meant that Mr Agarwal did not meet the independence criteria of the Group: as defined in the Code on his appointment in 2005 because he was Approval of major capital projects in excess of defined previously the Chief Executive and, through Volcan Investments thresholds: and Limited Volcan, members of his family have a controlling interest in Approval of major acquisitions and disposals of assets in the Company.
Mr Agarwal is pivotal in helping to achieve the strategic excess of defined thresholds.
objectives of Vedanta through his skills in seeking out value creating acquisitions and projects.
In addition, the fact that he dedicates The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters which himself full time to his role of Executive Chairman enables him to must be reported to the Board such as details of fatalities and balance his executive duties with providing leadership to the Board.
As the adoption or material amendment to the Group policies Chairman Mr Agarwal encourages debate and challenge and sets relating to business conduct, environment and health and safety.
For these reasons the Board is unanimously of the opinion that his continued involvement in an executive capacity is important to the success of the Group.
How the Board operates The Board meets on a regular basis and met formally on seven Code Provision B.
As well as formal meetings, written Under the Relationship Agreement put in place at the time of Listing resolutions are passed with the approval of the whole Board on Volcan, having a controlling interest in the Company, will be consulted routine matters as required in order to facilitate efficient decision on all appointments to the Board.
In addition ad hoc discussions take place between the therefore works collaboratively with Volcan when making Directors on a variety of topics throughout the year.
During the year, appointments to the Board and, to this extent, differs from the the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without the process set out in Code Provision B.
2.1 which stipulates that the Executive Directors present.
Nominations Committee should lead the process for Board appointments.
82 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate governance framework The relationship between the shareholders, the Board, Board Committees and management committees and the reporting structure as shown below forms the backbone of the Groups Corporate Governance framework.
Board of Directors Nominations Remuneration Sustainability Audit Committee Chief Executive officer Committee Committee Committee See page 93 See page 76 See page 98 See page 102 See page 100 Executive Committee See page 78 Leadership The Company is headed by an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Vedanta Board culture Debate Open discussions Consultative processes Encouragement to question Professional approach High ethical standards Different skill sets of Board members Supported by sound governance policies Excellent relationships between Board such as Code of Business Conduct and members Ethics Entrepreneurial spirit Seeking out new business opportunities and acquisitions Underpinned by strong internal auditing and control systems The role of our Board At the highest level the Board operates by setting strategy and objectives, reviewing progress against these objectives and incorporating feedback into its decision making processes.
The Board sets The Board The Board receives feedback from Vision Oversees Board members Values Challenges Committees including Advisory Strategy Reviews risk Forums and Chairman Workshops Business model Management Stakeholders Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 83 Directors Report Corporate Governance report continued The Executive Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is fiscal policy changes.
Prior to a Board meeting the Board also responsible for ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and routinely receives detailed information on business and financial clear information on all relevant matters in order to make informed performance, ongoing projects, fund raising initiatives, activities of decisions and discharge its duties.
Directors are provided with regular the Board Committees and investor relations, with presentations and detailed briefings on the Groups businesses, the markets within which verbal updates given by the Executive Directors and senior it operates and the overall economic environment and updates on management as appropriate.
Board activities during the year In fulfilling their remit under the key Board responsibilities of strategy, performance, risk and internal controls and governance the Directors considered the following main items of business during the year: Area of responsibility Items considered Strategy Production growth across portfolio with a focus on returns: Disciplined capital allocation: Low risk and phased development: Sustained operational excellence and cost efficiencies: and Active engagements with Governments.
Reduce gearing from increasing fee cash flow: Production ramp-up from well-invested assets: Generate positive free cash flow from well-invested assets from all businesses: and Utilise cash flows to deleverage balance sheet.
Add R&R on our existing portfolio of assets to drive long-term value: Continued focus to more than replace production.
Sustainability Preserve and enhance our licence to operate.
Consolidation and simplification of Group structure.
Performance Reviewing the progress of the Groups restructuring plans: Monitoring the operational performance of the Group against the business plan through production updates from the heads of the operating subsidiaries: Monitoring the financial performance of the Group and the financing of debt, currency hedging and covenant compliance: Reviewing and approving the Companys preliminary announcement of its financial results, the annual report and accounts and half year report: Approving the Group business plan for the year ahead: Declaring the interim dividend and recommending the final dividend: and Monitoring the Groups health and safety record and initiatives.
Risk and internal Reviewing the Group risk matrix and policy and receiving a report from the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of controls internal controls and risk management systems.
Governance Reviewing the composition of the Board and approving the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors and Chief Executive Officer: Consideration and approval of Non-Executive Directors fees: Reviewing project proposals and approving Group capital expenditure in excess of applicable thresholds: Receiving reports from each of the Board Committees: Reviewing the results of annual performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees: Receiving regular updates on corporate governance and other regulatory developments: and Receiving updates from investor relations in respect of investor sentiment, share price performance and investor feedback.
84 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information The role of the Senior Independent Director Division of responsibilities The Senior Independent Director plays a key role in achieving a There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the balance between the Companys Executive and Non-Executive Company between the functioning of the Board and the Directors.
He is responsible for: executive responsibility for the operation of the Companys Providing a channel of communication between the Executive business.
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors: Ensuring that the views of Non-Executive Directors are given due consideration: The Board has an established policy which sets out the key Acting as a contact for shareholders who wish to raise concerns responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, Deputy Executive which the normal channels of communication through the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director.
Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have failed to The Board maintains an ongoing monitoring procedure for timely resolve: review and update of all policies and procedures and, in recognition of Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: and the increased role and expanding responsibilities of the newly Meeting with the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year to appointed Chief Executive Officer, the division of responsibilities policy appraise the Executive Chairmans performance and on such other will be reviewed in 2014. occasions as are deemed appropriate.
The role of the Executive Chairman The Executive Chairman is responsible for: Non-Executive Directors Leading the Board, ensuring its effective functioning and setting its The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help agenda: develop proposals on strategy.
Upholding the highest standards of integrity and governance practices throughout the Group: Facilitating constructive relationships between Directors: The role of the Non-Executive Directors Reviewing the induction and training needs of the Directors: The responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in their Development of strategy and objectives for approval by the Board: letters of appointment.
The key elements of the Non-Executive Seeking new business opportunities: and Directors role are to: Ensuring communication and dialogue with shareholders and Constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: effective use of the AGM.
Scrutinise performance of management in meeting objectives and monitor performance: The role of the Deputy Executive Chairman Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and The Deputy Executive Chairman supports the Chairman in his ensure risk and control systems are robust: and leadership of the Board and is responsible for: Determine appropriate levels of remuneration and take a prime role Chairing the Executive Committee: in appointing Executive Directors and succession planning.
Delivery of Groups strategy in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer: The role of the Board Committees Development of fund raising initiatives: The Board delegates certain responsibilities to Board Committees Global investor relations: which operate within their defined terms of reference.
The main Board Oversight of the execution of Greenfield projects: and Committees are the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Oversight of the development of top talent throughout the Group.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance of external Recommending to the Board annual budgets and delivery of the advisers at their meetings and to seek information from any same: employee of the Company in order to perform their duties.
Under the Optimising the Groups assets and management and allocation of terms of reference of each of the Committees only the members of resources: each Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
Creating and maintaining a sound control environment: However, other Directors, management and advisers may attend Implementing strategy and Group policies and procedures: meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
The Group Supporting the Executive Chairman in effective communication Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Board, Audit, with various stakeholders: Nomination and Remuneration Committees while the Chief Providing leadership to the senior management team and Sustainability Officer acts as the secretary to the Sustainability nurturing the talent pool: and Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committees are Managing environmental, social and governance issues in available on the Companys website www.
com or conjunction with the Sustainability Committee.
by request to the Company Secretary.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 85 Directors Report Corporate Governance report continued The Executive Committee The Board of Directors The Executive Committee acts as a conduit between management As at the date of this report, the Board, chaired by Mr Anil Agarwal, and the Board and during the year ended 31 March 2014 comprised comprises the Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four of the Executive Directors and members of senior management independent Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the Board whose biographies are given on pages 76 to 79.
The Executive is reviewed regularly by the Nominations Committee.
There is a Committee meets monthly and is responsible for implementing variety of experience and skills represented on the Board including strategic plans formulated by the Board, allocating resources in line operational, mining, financial and governance as can be seen from with delegated authorities and monitoring the operational and the Directors biographies on pages 76 and 77. financial performance of the Group.
The Executive Committee therefore has a key role in putting the Boards plans and policies into Board skill set action.
The Chief Executive Officer, Mr Albanese, keeps the Board 3 1 Mining and Resources informed of the Executive Committees activities through his standing 2 Finance and Banking reports to the Board.
3 Legal and Governance 1 The Finance Standing Committee The Finance Standing Committee is an ad-hoc sub-Committee to which authority is delegated by the Board for approval of certain matters such as routine bank and financing issues.
It comprises five members: Executive Chairman, Deputy Executive Chairman, Chief 2 Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Finance.
The Company Secretary provides an update on the Finance Standing Committee meetings to the Board at the subsequent Board meeting and the minutes of all Finance Standing Committee meetings are Board independence reviewed by the Board.
In accordance with the Code, the Board is committed to ensuring that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman comprise of Details of the membership, terms of reference and attendance at independent Non-Executive Directors.
It undertakes an evaluation of meetings of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, and each Directors independence both on appointment, annually prior to Sustainability Committees are given in their respective reports on recommending their re-election by shareholders and when any pages 93 to 102.
Directors circumstances change and warrant a re-evaluation.
Prior to his appointment in June 2013 the independence of Deepak Effectiveness Parekh was considered by the Board.
As Mr Parekh has had no prior The Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance of connections with the Group the Board concluded that he is an skills, experience and knowledge of the Company to enable them independent Non-Executive Director.
to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Board membership and attendance The table below is a record of Directors attendance at Board meetings held during the year: Attendance at Name Date of appointment Board meetings Percentage attendance Executive Directors Anil Agarwal 16 May 2003 5 7 72% Navin Agarwal 24 November 2004 7 7 100% MS Mehta stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2014 1 October 2008 7 7 100% Non-Executive Directors Naresh Chandra stepped down from the Board on 1 August 2013 18 May 2004 3 3 100% Aman Mehta 24 November 2004 6 7 86% Euan Macdonald 23 March 2005 7 7 100% Geoffrey Green 1 August 2012 7 7 100% Deepak Parekh 1 June 2013 3 3 100% Tom Albanese was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2014.
86 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information The Board has considered the independence of Mr Geoffrey Green Directors conflicts of interest who was appointed to the Board in August 2012.
Mr Green was a The Board has an established procedure for the disclosure of interests partner at Ashurst LLP, a leading international law firm that is and other related matters in line with published guidance and the engaged by the Group to provide legal advice on various matters, Companies Act 2006.
Each Director must promptly disclose actual or until his retirement from the firm in 2013.
Mr Green was Senior Partner potential conflicts and any changes to the Board which are noted at of Ashurst and then head of the firms practice in Asia, based in Hong each Board meeting.
The Board considers and authorises potential or Kong.
As such he had no involvement in advising the Group over the actual conflicts as appropriate.
Directors with a conflict do not last five years.
Other than occasional consultancy work Mr Green has participate in the discussion or vote on the matter in question.
These no further business relationship with Ashurst LLP.
The Board has procedures have proved to be effective during the year under review.
concluded that he was independent of character and judgement on Related party transactions, which include those in respect of any appointment and remains so.
Furthermore, he brings to the Board a Director, are disclosed in Note 38 on pages 182 to 184. vital perspective of the UK legal and regulatory environment and corporate governance that serve to strengthen the Board.
The Board reviewed any potential conflict of interest for Mr Geoffrey Green from his previous role at Ashurst LLP.
The fees paid to Ashurst Two of the Companys Non-Executive Directors, Messrs Aman Mehta LLP during the year amounted to US$195,037 2013: US$0.7 million and Euan Macdonald will have served on the Board for nine years at and, as the value of the expenditure incurred was determined to be the date of the 2014 Annual General Meeting and they were immaterial and Mr Green was not directly involved in advising the therefore subject to a particularly rigorous review of their Group, the Board authorised the potential conflict of interest in independence.
Mr Aman Mehta also serves as Non-Executive Director accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
on the Board of Cairn India Limited.
The Board considered the potential conflicts and that each of the Non-Executive Directors in Relationship agreement question actively contributed to Board deliberations and provided At the time of the Companys Listing in 2003, it entered into a robust challenge to management during the year.
Furthermore, Mr relationship agreement with Volcan the Relationship Agreement, Aman Mehta absents himself in the event of any conflict arising from its majority shareholder, to regulate the ongoing relationship between their directorships at Cairn India Limited.
In the opinion of the Board, them.
A new Relationship Agreement was entered into in December Mr Macdonald does not have any business relationship and he is not 2011 the terms of which are the same as that entered into on Listing involved in any transaction or circumstance that would interfere with but updated for legal and regulatory requirements where appropriate.
the exercise of independent judgement in carrying out the The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that responsibilities of a director.
Accordingly, the Board concluded that the Group is able to carry on business independently of Volcan, the the tenure of Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald does not materially affect Agarwal family and their associates.
Under the terms of the their ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the best Relationship Agreement, the Board, and Nominations Committee will interests of the Group.
Furthermore, the renewal of Non-Executive at all times consist of a majority of Directors who are independent of Director service agreements is subject to rigorous review and based Volcan and the Agarwal family.
Whilst the Remuneration and Audit on annual reappointment.
For these reasons, and following a Committees shall at all times comprise solely of Non-Executive consideration of any other factors that may impair independent Directors, Volcan is entitled to nominate for appointment as Director judgement, the Board is unanimously of the opinion that Messrs such number of persons as is one less than the number of Directors Mehta and Macdonald are considered to be independent and who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal family and their impartial.
While their total length of appointment would not normally associates.
The Board considers these to be adequate safeguards in exceed nine-years, in the light of the continuing search for additional that Directors who are independent of Volcan make up at least half of non-executive directors and to ensure the smooth transition of any the Board in accordance with Provision B.
1.2 of the Code and new and incoming Non-Executive Director, the Board has invited Vedantas ability to operate independently of Volcan is protected by Messrs Mehta and Macdonald to serve on the Board for a further year the Relationship Agreement.
following the nine-year anniversary of their appointment, subject to the proposed resolution to reappoint them at the 2014 Annual The Financial Conduct Authority has recently introduced a number of General Meeting.
measures in the Listing Rules to enhance the protection for minority shareholders.
One of the most important changes will be the Finally, the Board once again reviewed whether any conflicts of requirement for listed companies with a controlling shareholder to interest arose from Messrs Mehta and Macdonald having previously have in place a Relationship Agreement.
The existing Relationship Agreement will be reviewed during the year ahead to ensure held senior management positions within subsidiary companies of compliance with the new requirements.
HSBC Holdings Plc which acted as the joint global bookrunner and co-ordinator for the Companys listing in 2003.
As they retired from The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing matters arising in their respective roles over a decade ago and had no involvement with relation to the Relationship Agreement and related party transactions the Company prior to their appointment, the Board remains of the on behalf of the Board.
There were no such matters considered during view that they are independent and have no conflicts of interest.
Following careful consideration, the Board has determined that all of the current Non-Executive Directors are independent and free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect or appear to affect their independent judgement.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 87 Directors Report Corporate Governance report continued In September 2013, Mr Albanese joined the Group as Chairman of Commitment Vedanta Resources Holdings Limited before being appointed Chief All Directors allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge Executive Officer effective April 2014.
This structured appointment their responsibilities effectively.
process provided Mr Albanese with the opportunity to participate in a comprehensive and tailored orientation programme essentially to familiarise him with the Groups operations, the business environment All Directors are required to disclose their other time commitments and the markets in which we operate, as well as to build a link with our and seek the agreement of the Executive Chairman prior to accepting employees and an understanding of the Groups main relationships.
any additional appointments in order to ensure that they have The orientation includes meetings with other Board members, the sufficient time to fulfil their role as a Director.
The expected time executive team, senior management and visits to the operating sites commitment of the Companys Non-Executive Directors is set out in of the Group: their letters of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to Alumina refinery at Lanjigarh, India: spend at least 20 days per year on the Companys business with Aluminium smelters in India operated by Bharat Aluminium greater time commitment during periods of heightened strategic and Company and Vedanta Aluminium : commercial activity.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of Rampura Agucha Zinc mine in Rajasthan, India operated by appointment are available on request to the Company Secretary.
Hindustan Zinc : Black Mountain Zinc mine, South Africa: Skorpion Zinc mine in Karas, Namibia: Development, information and support Iron ore mine in Goa, India operated by Sesa Sterlite : All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board and Iron ore mine, Western Cluster, Liberia operated by Sesa Sterlite : regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The Copper smelter in Tuticorin, India operated by Sesa Sterlite : Board receives in a timely manner information in a form and of a Konkola Copper mine, Zambia: quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Copper mines, Tasmania in 2014, Australia: Oil fields in Rajasthan in 2013 and Andhra Pradesh in 2014, India operated by Cairn India : and The Board is committed to the ongoing professional development of Coal based thermal power plant in Punjab, India operated by a all of the Directors.
On appointment to the Board, each Director subsidiary of Sesa Sterlite.
undergoes a comprehensive induction programme which is tailored to their individual needs but is intended to provide an introduction to the The objectives of the programme are also to maximise Mr Albaneses Groups operations and the challenges and risks faced.
During the contributions to Board deliberations, to enable him to make informed year, Mr Parekh attended the induction and orientation programme decisions with regard to matters of the Group, and to give him a consisting of meetings with and presentations from senior greater insight into the legal and ethical framework in which he must management, and meetings with the Non-Executive Directors.
also received induction materials including the Companys Articles of Association, Board terms of reference, Share Dealing Code, Cairn The orientation and training programme for Mr Albanese has India Prospectus, Code of Business Conduct, Vedanta Values and an continued following his appointment to the Board with a focus on update on the implementation of the Anti-Bribery policy across the internal management meeting attendance to provide him with Group.
In addition, in 2013, Mr Green attended INSEADs opportunities to meet key talent within the Group, as well as International Directors Programme to further develop the essential additional operational site visits to deepen his understanding of key skills required of a Director.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Evaluation procedures are followed.
The Company Secretary is also responsible The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation for advising the Board through the Chairman on governance matters.
of its own performance and that of its Committees and The Directors also have access to the Companys professional advisers individual Directors.
whom they can consult where necessary for the discharge of their duties.
During the year, the Directors received legal and regulatory updates on corporate governance developments and presentations The Board undertakes regular evaluations of its own performance as from the senior management of Konkola Copper Mines, Zambia, and well as that of the various Board Committees.
In previous years the Cairn India.
performance evaluations were led by the Executive Chairman supported by the Company Secretary.
The review consisted of a detailed questionnaire tailored to the Board and each Committee with a subsequent discussion of results and agreement of relevant actions.
As required by the Code, an externally facilitated evaluation was conducted in 2014 and is reported on below.
88 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Choice of evaluator A series of actions will be identified in response to the The choice of external evaluator was a key consideration for the recommendations of the review, as follows: Nominations Committee.
The brief was to find a company used to Theme dealing with Board members who would provide a bespoke service to address the specific requirements of the evaluation.
Prism Cosec Strategic discussion: Broader consideration of strategic issues Prism was chosen to conduct the process due to their ability to outside India was encouraged, particularly engage meaningfully with the Directors.
Prism also provided within Asia and Africa.
occasional corporate governance advice to the Company on an ad Risk: Further work on the strategic oversight of risk hoc basis the fees for such work have not been material.
knowledge of the background and development of Vedanta was also an important factor enabling them to carry out an effective and Board process: The format, structure and process for Board targeted process.
papers and the timetable and locations of Board meetings should be reviewed.
Evaluation process The induction and ongoing development A series of discussion topics on which to base individual interviews programme should be restructured and with the Directors was agreed.
These covered questions on: developed for Directors.
The external environment for resources companies: Audit Committee: The Audit Committee should consider The Boards strategic response: increasing the number of meetings to Strategy and risk: allocate more time to a the Committee Key priorities for the Board: obligations as set out in its terms of reference, Committee structure and operation of the Committees: and b the increasing accountability that it Sustainability and CSR: and has to report on its own activities.
Nomination The Committee should continue to identify Committee: the optimum balance of skills, background The findings from the evaluation exercise were discussed with the and experience to develop and inform Chairman and reviewed by the whole Board before a set of actions the Board recruitment process over the were agreed.
Board diversity should be strengthened.
Main recommendations Summary Remuneration The Board as a whole should continue to The Board evaluation exercise was undertaken shortly after the Committee: monitor the effectiveness of communication appointment of Mr Albanese, the newly appointed Chief Executive with analysts and shareholders concerning Officer, and therefore a number of the recommendations were the Boards Remuneration Policy.
aligned to significant changes which were already in progress Sustainability: The governance of sustainability should concerning the way in which the Company is managed.
The membership of the Sustainability Committee should be reviewed The underlying processes of the Board and its Committees were to create greater accountability from generally considered to be working well, although there were areas management in this area.
where further improvements could be made.
The Boards strengths Committee evaluation A number of strengths emerged from the evaluation exercise The independently facilitated evaluation of the Board has embraced which were: certain aspects of the role of the Board Committees and, as a result of The current Board and Committee processes work effectively with this, a number of the recommendations from the Board evaluation agenda preparation and information flows operating well: process are being considered for each Committee.
Consequently, the Dialogue within Board meetings is encouraged and debate is Committees will evaluate their own performance later in 2014, in managed well: order to consider how those recommendations from the main Financial information is comprehensive and the Board has an evaluation exercise have been implemented and identify further steps effective grasp on financial matters: that they consider need to be taken to ensure their continued The positive performance evaluation of the Chairman of the Board effectiveness as Committees.
and the collaborative relationship with the Board: and Good progress has been made on certain key priorities over the Chairmans performance past year e. g. Group structure.
Every year the Chairmans performance is evaluated by the NonExecutive Directors.
The process is led by the Senior Independent Director and the conclusions of the evaluation are fed back to the Chairman with a number of actions to be completed over the year ahead.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 89 Directors Report Corporate Governance report continued The responsibilities, processes and information flows for ensuring that Re-election significant risks are recognised and reported up to the Board are All Directors are submitted for re-election at regular intervals, shown below: subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The Board In accordance with the Code which requires that the Directors of FTSE Sets risk appetite.
350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders, Reviews significant reported risks.
all of the Companys Directors will stand for re-election at the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Accountability The Audit Committee Reviews the effectiveness of internal control risk systems and Financial and business reporting reports to the Board.
The Directors present a fair, balanced and understandable Reviews risk matrix significant risks status of risks mitigating assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Considers approves remedial actions where appropriate.
Reviews action plans put in place to mitigate risks.
The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, which is Reviews significant findings reported by MAS.
reviewed and modified in line with Accounting Standards to ensure Reviews internal audit plans.
that all published financial information is accurate.
Vedantas financial Assesses the effectiveness of internal audit.
reporting procedures are based on five main elements: Reviews whistleblower reports presented by MAS.
Financial information supplied by subsidiary companies and consolidated at central level: Management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis and reviewed by the Executive Committee: Management accounts are reviewed by the Board at least quarterly: Management Assurance Services MAS Internal Audit Performance is monitored against key performance indicators function throughout the financial year and forecasts are updated as Plans and carries out internal audits through arrangements appropriate: and with leading international accounting and audit firms.
Annual operational budgets are prepared by each operating Recommends improvements to the Groups internal control subsidiary and consolidated into a Group Budget which is system.
reviewed and approved by the Board.
Reviews compliance with Group policies and procedures.
The Internal Audit function provides assurance in respect of Facilitates the update of the risk matrix.
processes, physical verification and management information Reports to the Audit Committee.
system accuracy for each operating company.
Reviews findings with Senior Management.
External auditor assurance: Investigates whistleblower cases.
Full year audit and interim review are carried out on the published financial statements.
Review by the Audit Committee of: Year-end reporting plans: Legal, tax and accounting issues: The Head of MAS attends all the Vedanta Executive Committee and Consideration of the financial statements and disclosures in Audit Committee meetings and heads a strong team supported by accordance with financial reporting standards: and Ernst & Young.
During the year, the MAS team played a key role in the Going concern statements with supporting cash flow, liquidity review of the compliance of Sesa Sterlite and its subsidiaries with the and funding forecasts.
obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, including Review by the Audit Committee and the Board of the preliminary documenting internal controls as required by section 404 of the Act.
and half-year announcements, the Annual Report and Accounts The effectiveness of internal controls is assessed by Vedantas own and any other announcements including financial information.
administration and certified by independent auditors, as set forth in the Act.
90 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information This element has been an important component of the overall Risk management and internal control process by which the Board obtains the assurance it requires to ensure The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent that risks are properly identified, evaluated and managed.
The scope of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic of work, authority and resources of MAS are regularly reviewed by the objectives.
The Board maintains a sound risk management and Audit Committee.
The responsibilities of MAS include recommending internal control system.
improvements in the control environment and reviewing compliance with the Groups philosophy, policies and procedures.
The planning of internal audit is approached from a risk perspective.
In preparing the The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and internal audit plan, reference is made to the Groups risk matrix, inputs determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take to are sought from senior management, project managers and Audit achieve its strategic objectives.
The Directors also have ultimate Committee members and reference is made to past audit experience, responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a robust system financial analysis and the current economic and business of internal control to provide them with reasonable assurance that all environment.
information within the business and for external publication is adequate.
Authority for detailed monitoring of the internal control Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place procedures to and risk management framework is delegated to the Audit ensure that sufficient internal controls are maintained.
These Committee which reports to the Board regularly within the remit of its procedures include a monthly meeting of the relevant management role.
committee and quarterly meeting of the Audit Committee of that subsidiary.
Any adverse findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Groups risk management framework plays a key role in the The Audit Committee Chairman may request MAS and or the identification, analysis, mitigation and continual monitoring of the external auditor to focus their audit work and report to him on specific various risks that could impact the delivery of the strategic objectives areas of risk identified by the risk management and internal control set by the Board.
Full details of principal risks and uncertainties are framework.
At a Group level, the findings by MAS are presented contained in the Strategic report on pages 32 to 38. monthly to the Executive Committee and to the Audit Committee on a half yearly basis.
The Risk Management Committee comprising of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and Director, Management The Executive Committee and Audit Committee regularly review Assurance and Information Technology periodically reviews the reports related to the Groups internal control framework in order to changes in the nature and extent of major risks.
The Companys Chief satisfy the internal control requirements of the Code Internal Control: Risk Officer and the risk officers at operating subsidiaries are Revised Guidance for Directors and section 404 of the Sarbanesresponsible for creating heightened awareness of the risk Oxley Act 2002.
Due to the limitations inherent in any system of management framework both at Group level and at operating internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups particular subsidiary level.
They play an important role in ensuring that the needs and the risks to which it is exposed rather than eliminate risk organisation sustains its risk management initiatives and that the altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not Groups risk management framework matures and grows with the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In line with best practice, the Board has reviewed the internal control A consistently applied methodology is used to identify risks to system in place during the year and up to the date of the approval of operations and projects at the operating subsidiary level.
The Boards review includes the Audit Committees report financial, operational and compliance control and risk management, on the risk matrix, significant risks and actions put in place to mitigate to ensure shareholders interests and the Companys assets are these risks.
This review ensures that the internal control system safeguarded.
The process also covers significant risks that may arise remains effective.
Where weaknesses are identified as a result of the from environmental, social and governance matters.
At the review, new procedures are put in place to strengthen controls and operational level specialists are brought in where appropriate to these are in turn reviewed at regular intervals.
Every risk has an owner review working practices and recommendations are implemented who is responsible for ensuring that controls are put in place to with the purpose of creating safe working environments.
MAS also mitigate the risk.
During the course of its review of the system of review the quarterly accounts of the Group subsidiary boards.
internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any weaknesses or control failure that is significant.
MAS have arrangements with leading international accounting and audit firms excluding the Groups external auditor for carrying out internal audits within the Group.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 91 Directors Report Corporate Governance report continued Routine communication activities include: Dialogue with shareholders Press releases to the market and media on key developments There is a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual throughout the year: understanding of objectives.
The Board as a whole is responsible Meetings with institutional investors, analysts and brokers and site for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes visits to the Groups major operations: place.
Ongoing dialogue with shareholders and other interested parties by email, letters and meetings arranged through our Investor Relations team: and The Company values communication with its shareholders and A wide range of information on the Company and its operations is actively engages with them to listen to their views.
The Company available on our website including the Annual Report and Accounts, undertakes an ongoing schedule of meetings with institutional half yearly results, sustainability report, market announcements, investors, which is managed by the Investor Relations team.
The main press releases, share price and links to subsidiary company websites.
channels of communication with the investment community are through the Executive Chairman, Deputy Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Investor Relations.
Upon request the Senior Independent Director and The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major with investors and encourages participation.
investors to discuss any specific issues.
The Board is also kept abreast of shareholder sentiment through periodic detailed investor relations reports to the Board.
The Board welcomes the opportunity to communicate with the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, leading to Timeline of key investor relations activities 2014 full and frank discussions on a variety of topics of interest to shareholders.
All of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Month Activity Remuneration, Nominations and Sustainability Committees attend the AGM in order to answer questions from shareholders.
The 2014 April 2013 Q4 2013 Production update AGM will be held at 3.00pm on 1 August 2014 at The Lincoln Centre, May 2013 Full year 2013 results announcement 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
Further details are given in Roadshows in London the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report including Bond Roadshows in London, Boston, New the business to be considered at the meeting.
The Notice is sent out York, Los Angeles, Singapore and Hong Kong at least 20 business days before the AGM.
Voting at the AGM on all resolutions is by poll on a one share, one vote basis and the results of July 2013 Q1 2014 Production and EBITDA update votes cast for, against and abstentions are available on the Groups Annual Report and Accounts release website following the meeting.
The Board believes that voting by poll August 2013 Annual General Meeting allows the views of all shareholders to be taken into account regardless of whether or not they can attend the meeting and September 2013 Broker conference in London and US shareholders are actively encouraged to register their votes October 2013 Q2 2014 Production update electronically in advance of the meeting.
Extraordinary General Meeting November 2013 Half year 2014 results announcement Roadshows in London December 2013 Shareholder Circular January 2014 Q3 2014 Production and EBITDA update Shareholders Meeting Extraordinary General Meeting Broker conference in US February 2014 Mining conference in Africa 92 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
