Governance 67 Audit Committee committee members Roles and responsibilities Financial reporting Jeff Hewitt Committee Chairman The primary roles and responsibilities of the We fulfilled our primary responsibility to Nelda Connors Committee remained the same as in 2013, review the integrity of the half-year and Jane Hinkley and again included advice to the Board on annual financial statements and recommend whether the Committee believed the Annual their acceptance to the Board.
We also The audit committee report and accounts taken as a whole, was considered the Interim management fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent Non-executive Directors of the The Committee operates under formal In forming our views, we assessed: Company.
The members bring a wide range Terms of Reference which the Committee of financial and commercial expertise to the The quality, acceptability and consistency reviewed and updated during the year and Committees deliberations.
I continued to be of the accounting policies and practices which were subsequently approved by the the Committee Chairman.
This year the Terms of Reference were The clarity and consistency of the accountant and have the required recent and updated significantly for the UK Corporate disclosures, including compliance with relevant financial experience.
Hock Goh and Governance Code issued in September 2014 relevant financial reporting standards and Douglas Hurt will join the Committee on their by the Finance Reporting Council, for the other reporting requirements appointment to the Board on 2 April 2015. requirements of the Competition & Markets Douglas Hurt is my designated successor as Significant issues where management Authority CMA Order and also partly Chairman and he will assume the position judgements and or estimates have been for the anticipated requirements of the when I retire from the Board at the close of made that are material to the reporting or EU Commission Regulations on Statutory the AGM in May 2015.
His background as where discussions have taken place with the Audits.
Most of these changes relate to CFO of IMI plc and current Chair of the Audit external auditor in arriving at the judgement Committee activities and reporting in 2015 Committee of Tate & Lyle PLC make him or estimate and later years.
The Terms of Reference eminently suitable to lead the Committee.
are available on the Groups website At the request of the Board, whether the Hock Gohs experience in Asia will broaden www.
Within these Terms Annual report and accounts taken as a the Committees understanding in a key the Committee and its individual members whole is fair, balanced and understandable, region for the Group.
The Company are empowered to obtain outside legal or taking into consideration all the information Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
other independent professional advice at the available to the Committee meetings cost of the Company.
Such powers were not The application of the FRCs guidance on required during the year.
The Committee may The Committee met five times during the clear and concise reporting to the Annual also secure the attendance at its meetings of year.
We continue to operate in an inclusive report and accounts.
any employee or other parties with relevant manner.
Hence, the Board Chairman, nonexperience and expertise should it be The Committee actively deliberated on independent Non-executive Director, Chief considered necessary.
reports from the Chief Financial Officer and Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Group Financial Controller.
These were well Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit activities in 2014 prepared and analysed various alternatives, and the external auditor KPMG, were invited In 2014 we focused on the second year as appropriate, relating to areas of judgement to each meeting.
Other management were of reporting changes arising from guidance and or estimation.
KPMG also delivered also invited to attend as appropriate.
We also considered memoranda for the half-year and year-end, that this openness continues to enhance the the implications for future reporting of the stating their views on significant issues.
quality and transparency of the Committees more recently announced UK Corporate KPMG provided a summary for each issue, work and the communication of its Governance Code requirements relating to including their assessment of the prudence deliberations with the Board, executives and risks and viability.
The Committee agreed of managements judgements or estimates.
The Committee also met privately with management not to early adopt these The Committee considered the overall with KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit changes for 2014, but to implement them degree of prudence applied this year and in without any executives being present, and fully in 2015, when the implications will comparison with the prior year.
Importantly, I met informally with KPMG and with be clearer.
the Committee agreed with KPMG that the Head of Internal Audit between the the judgements made were cautious, but scheduled meetings to discuss any emerging In forming our views, I and the other not overly prudent, and similar to last year.
This avoidance of surprises approach members of the Committee believe that I believe that consistency of judgement was reinforced by our regular meetings we received sufficient, relevant and reliable over time remains a critical consideration, with a range of executives during site visits, information from management and the so that the trend in reported performance informal meetings and Board presentations.
external auditor, to enable us to discharge is not distorted by differing judgements by The outcomes of meetings were reported fully our responsibilities.
management on issues that span more than to the Board and all members of the Board one reporting period.
received the agenda, papers and minutes.
68 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Audit Committee continued KPMG proposed no material audit Consequently a further 24.8m of deferred Significant ongoing topics considered were: adjustments arising from their year-end tax asset has been recognised this year to Income tax payable and provisions audit, which provided additional comfort give a year-end provision of 54.0m as Provisioning for income tax remains a to the Committee.
The recognition of complex area where judgements are made, losses and their use is a highly technical area The Committee has reviewed managements for example, on provisions relating to where the Committee has drawn on internal assessment of IFRS 15 Revenue from taxes that might arise from transfer pricing experts to understand the treatment.
We Contracts with Customers, which will be policies.
The Committee agreed the basis reviewed the modelling and the implications effective from January 2017 but has not yet of the provision of 44.9m for income tax for the reported tax rate and concluded been endorsed by the EU.
The preliminary payable and provisions as set out in Note that this further recognition was consistent assessment indicates that the impact on 11.5 on page 118.
Though the Groups with the estimation applied last year.
In consolidated financial statements is not policy on tax planning is not aggressive, forming our view we also considered the expected to be significant.
the Committee is aware that all corporate implications for the effective tax rate used tax affairs are under increased scrutiny.
Taking all the inputs into Management is also currently assessing the Discussions with internal tax experts were account the Committee concurred with impact of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, on held and the results of recent tax audits the views of management, but emphasised its consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 9, considered in forming the Committees that this issue would remain an important which will be effective from 1 January 2018 decision to concur with managements judgement area for some time.
although it has not yet been endorsed by view.
the EU, will introduce revised guidance Provisions The Committee challenged the on the classification and measurement of Working capital provisions Given that level of provisions established in a number financial assets.
the trading of the Groups steel and foundry of areas.
Total provisions as detailed on industry customers was difficult in some page 146 amounted to 52.7m.
The level of Significant issues and material regions and sectors during the year as provisions held in respect of open litigation judgements noted in the divisional reviews, particular matters that can go on for many years is an Last year, I distinguished between issues that attention was paid to the working capital area of judgement.
A number of large claims arose in the year and ongoing topics that reserves held against receivables and were resolved during the year through persist from year to year.
This year two of inventories Notes 19 and 20 respectively to mediation and settlement.
A provision of the significant issues have related to matters ensure that appropriate levels in the current 6.9m relating to the MacDermid litigation not new in the year, but where important trading context have been established.
is referred to in Note 33 on page 146. developments have occurred that required The Committee was assured that the Provisioning for future potential costs particular judgement.
Other ongoing topics provisioning reflected reasonable estimates.
associated with businesses disposed of or have been and are covered regularly in the closed, or restructured, is a further area Impairment of intangible assets The accounts and are generally common topics where long-term judgements are required carrying value of goodwill and other across many companies.
such as those arising from the disposal intangible assets, being some 561.4m of Precious Metals in 2013.
In 2014 this and 142.5m at year-end, respectively, Significant issues arising from developments particular issue was less significant whilst was tested against the recent and planned in the year: the VAT claim detailed in the 2013 report performance of the cash-generating Recognition of US deferred tax asset has been largely resolved.
As last year, units and the Committee agreed that no In 2013 the Group recognised 29.2m of the Committee examined expert advice impairment charge was required.
The deferred tax as an asset after extensive on the relevant areas of litigation claims, detailed assumptions, provided in Note modelling of likely future profits in the US.
environmental liabilities, warranty limitation 18, were similar overall to last year with As noted last year and detailed on page periods and indirect taxes together with appropriate changes to discount rates and 117, the Group has significant additional tax any other significant provisions in forming cash flow projections.
The changes were losses and other timing differences in the US its views.
The Committee concluded that evaluated by the Committee in light of and elsewhere which were not recognised, the overall level of provisions is stated Board-agreed medium-term business plans, though it was agreed that these would be appropriately.
longer-term projections and expert views kept under review.
This year the prospects on discount rates.
The models indicated that for future US profits have improved and so there is significant headroom between the management has increased confidence in use value and the carrying value.
in the ongoing profitability over a longer time scale.
Governance 69 Pensions The complexities of the installed appropriate financial reporting An examination of the Groups Antipension accounting and appropriateness controls.
Group Finance management and Bribery and Corruption policies and their of assumptions used described in Note Internal Audit have visited and carried out implementation locally is being carried out 29 were considered carefully by the extensive testing, including examination of by an expert firm for the Company Secretary Committee, as small changes in the reconciliations.
KPMGs year-end audit was and the Board.
This phased work aims to assumptions would have material effects substantive and no material exceptions refresh the established existing policies and and bond yields in particular have been were found.
Important lessons have been procedures.
To date, the Committee has been volatile.
The assumptions made by learnt by management from the Brazilian reassured by the output.
management for each of the major schemes experience that will be deployed in future Each year the senior financial, operational and were compared by KPMG with other system changes.
functional management of the businesses similar schemes.
The Committee agreed The Group is made up of several large self-certify compliance with Group policies the reasonableness of the assumptions.
operating units, but also many small and procedures, which provides another In overview, the Committee resolved that the ones in geographically diverse locations.
This was carried out without judgements and estimates made on each Consequently, segregation of duties, material exception at the end of 2014. of the significant issues considered by the overlapping access controls on systems After considering these various inputs, the Committee were appropriate and acceptable.
and remote management oversight can Committee was able to provide its assurance give rise to control vulnerabilities and fraud Fair, balanced and understandable to the Board on the effectiveness of internal opportunities.
In late March there was an reporting control within the Group.
attempted fraud at one operation, but this was thwarted and no loss incurred.
In Brazil The Committee assessed all information The Committee also continued its monitoring the weak controls earlier in the year permitted available to it in considering the overall and oversight of the procedures for the two small frauds perpetrated by past drafting of the Annual report and accounts receipt, retention and treatment of complaints employees, which the reconciliation process and the process by which it was compiled by employees.
This is an independent and revealed.
The oversight and strengthening and reviewed, to enable it to provide advice confidential service worldwide where in controls should stop such opportunistic to the Board that the Annual report is fair, employees may register any concerns about fraud.
In 2014, and continuing into 2015, the balanced and understandable.
In doing so the any incorrect or irregular practices they internal audit coverage has been intensified Committee ensured that more time was again perceive in their workplace.
The very limited in light of such risks with more coverage of dedicated to the drafting process so that number of issues raised in the year were smaller units.
To test compensatory controls, linkages and consistencies could be worked followed up appropriately.
The size of the this year at the behest of the Committee and through and tested.
Drafts were reviewed number, however, gave the Committee the CFO, the external auditor performed by knowledgeable executives not directly concern as to whether the process is enhanced procedures on the balance sheet involved in the year-end process.
The Company Secretary reconciliation processes in the businesses Committee are satisfied that positive advice has undertaken a review to strengthen within their audit scope.
Thorough could be and was provided to the Board.
the communication of the Speak Up reconciliations are an important control facility across the Group, which will be fully Internal controls safeguard.
This review indicated generally implemented during 2015. sound reconciliation methodology The Committee considered the process Internal audit including appropriate follow-up of the by which management evaluated internal reconciling items.
The Head of The Groups Internal Audit function operates Internal Audit provided the Committee on a global basis through professionally A review of systems installations was also with a summary overview of the assurance qualified and experienced individual members carried out within the audit to determine how provided by the controls and of the testing located in major centres, who report to the the Groups infrastructure compared with of these controls.
Additionally, KPMG Head of Internal Audit based in London.
Though the Group has reviewed controls in the businesses within She in turn reports directly to me.
not standardised on a particular ERP system, the scope of their year-end audit and this the infrastructure is not dissimilar to other As I mentioned last year, the Head of Internal also indicated good control environments groups.
Over time, management intends to Audit had just been recruited from a similar with overall further improvements on last move to more sharing of services, enabled by role at a UK-based international group.
Weaknesses were noted however, in process and systems standardisation between experience has been brought to bear on the Vesuvius Brazil Steel business where businesses and this is likely to improve reinvigorating and strengthening the internal management changes and the introduction the overall internal controls in the smaller audit practices, reporting and follow-up.
of a new ERP system put strain on the operating units.
The Committee found the To support this process the Committee routine control processes.
New management review a useful update on understanding how agreed a review of internal audit processes supported by experienced managers much the audit process could rely on systems by specialists from PwC.
This determined a from other operations have focused on controls as against more substantive testing.
number of areas for improvement consistent stabilising the use of the new system and 70 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Audit Committee continued with current good practice in similar groups.
Risk management Unusually, the Committee commissioned The development plan that ensued is in PwC to undertake a review of the whole As highlighted in the reviews of strategy and the final stages of implementation and the external audit process.
This was carried out principal risks in the Strategic report, risk Committee is content with the progress in parallel with the internal audit review management is inherent in managements being made.
This is not to imply that previous noted above.
The work involved best practice thinking and is embedded in the business internal audit work had been weak or based reviews and interviews with the planning processes of the Group.
In 2014 inadequate, but the disciplines, effectiveness Committee, Board, Group and key divisional the Board more clearly took responsibility and efficiency of audits have improved and financial management.
KPMG participated for risk identification and prioritisation, with will continue to improve through 2015.
As in this process to the full extent that ethical the Group Executive Committee also being in previous years, the Internal Audit team standards permitted and the Committee more actively involved in implementation carried out assignments in accordance with welcomed this cooperation.
I am pleased and mitigation actions.
The Audit Committee an annual internal audit plan approved by to report that the conclusions were positive has continued its monitoring role.
The 2014 plan was based on the overall effectiveness of the Groups realignment has provided a more robust on assessed risks and aimed to cover all external audit process with few areas for framework for identifying and dealing with operations on a three-year cycle as the consideration or improvement.
This reflects the principal risks and is consistent with the minimum.
For 2015 the plan includes a well on management as well as on KPMG.
recently announced requirements in the wider set of risk considerations, and has revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
As in previous years, an internal quality and enhanced objectives.
perceptions review of KPMG was carried As in previous years, bottom up risk In 2014, 63 audit assignments were out across the Group by the Group Financial registers were constructed and reviewed in undertaken covering 32% of the Groups Controller and again the results were positive.
The Head of Internal revenue and 31% of the Groups profit before Given these inputs the Committee deemed Audit coordinated the accumulation of these tax.
The Committee reviewed progress the effectiveness of the external audit process operational risks for consideration by the against the agreed plan and discussed recent to be high and I fully support this view.
Group Executive Committee and then by reports with the Head of Internal Audit the Board.
The Board also input top down The independent auditors report provided at each of its meetings.
PwC was used as strategic risks into the process, including by KPMG on pages 100 to 102 includes outsourced providers to ensure a satisfactory the broader economic, environmental and KPMGs assessment of the risks of material completion 93% of the agreed audit plan.
organisational issues facing the Group.
In misstatement in the accounts.
The The outsourcing process was a valuable monitoring the overall process, Committee Committee and management concur with learning process and more outsourcing in members also fully participated in the Board their assessment.
The items are included in specialist areas or geographies will be used review of risks and mitigating actions.
In Significant issues and material judgements in the future.
Where control issues or other particular, the Committee determined that comments noted above.
The report also problems were flagged by the fieldwork, the the principal risks and uncertainties as set summarises the scope, coverage and Committee ensured appropriate and timely out on pages 22 and 23 properly reflect the materiality levels applied by KPMG in their action by the responsible management, outcome of the process.
As part of the audit planning process involving senior management as necessary, and based on a detailed risk assessment, the with a follow-up review.
As noted above, External audit Committee set a materiality figure of 5.7m Brazil was the main cause for concern in The Committee and the Board are committed for Group financial reporting purposes which the year.
to maintaining the excellence of the external is lower than last year 7.0m and in line An internal perceptions survey of the quality audit process.
The effectiveness of the with similar groups at about 5% of profit and effectiveness of internal audit was again external audit process was again tested before tax.
Importantly much lower levels of undertaken and the team scored highly by considering the quality of issues and materiality are used in the audit fieldwork on on their approach.
I would expect the high challenges raised by KPMG to the Committee the individual businesses across the Group standing with which internal audit is held and to management across the Group and by and these lower figures drive the scope and within the Group will be further enhanced the responsiveness of management to these depth of audit work.
Small operations were by the current development programme.
challenges in generating financial reporting subject to statutory audit but were also that is of the high standard expected by subject to internal audit reviews based on risk our shareholders.
Any misstatements at or above 0.3m were reported to the Committee.
Governance 71 There were no significant changes to the audit External auditor independence playing a part in management decision scope during the course of the audit, though making, preparing accounting records, In the PwC review of our external audit given the control weaknesses in Vesuvius designing or implementing internal control process a specific area of questioning related Brazil, a more substantive audit than initially risk management services or financial to the independence and objectivity of planned was carried out there.
systems, certain HR services and other legal, KPMG.
The scoring of the respondents on investment and share dealing services.
The coverage of the audit at 73% of the this topic was very high and accorded well There will also be a 70% cap on the fees Groups revenue, 87% of profit before tax with good practice.
for non-audit services relative to the audit and 87% of assets was considered by the fee.
The implications of an auditor failing The Committee takes assurance from this Committee.
Though slightly higher than last the independence test is onerous in that an finding.
The safeguards to protect the year, the coverage is relatively low.
This is as audit carried out by a non-independent independence and objectivity of the auditor a result of the long tail of smaller businesses auditor would not constitute an audit and that continued during the year include: within the Group that individually are not there would then be serious consequences material to the Group result.
As noted Regular confirmation that the external for the Company.
These prohibitions would above, controls in these businesses are the auditor is independent of the Company in not impact our current relationship with subject of internal and external audit review, its own professional judgement KPMG, but are an important consideration but management is considering other means in planning the external auditor rotation Evaluating all the relationships between the of extending external audit more extensively discussed below.
The Committee and external auditor and the Group, including into the smaller businesses without management are actively considering the those relating to the provision of  increasing the overall implications, as some of the prohibited audit services to determine whether these audit cost.
Proposals will be made and services are inherently multi-year activities, impair, or appear to impair, the auditors considered by the Committee as part of for example tax and systems, and are currently independence.
carried out by firms that could be invited to In accordance with established Group policy, tender for the audit.
The Groups existing The KPMG audit fee was constructed the external auditor is prohibited from policies will have to become more restrictive bottom up, and was considered in light performing services where it: to comply with the finalised EU regulations.
of the audit work required by the agreed materiality level and scope.
Following some May be required to audit its own work An annual fees budget for non-audit services further negotiation the fee was agreed by which management is proposing to pay to the Would participate in activities that would the Committee for recommendation to the external auditor is presented for pre-approval normally be undertaken by management Board.
The Board approved the fee of 1.8m, to the Committee as part of the overall which is 0.1m higher than in 2013.
Is remunerated through a success fee budgeting process.
Where a specific nonstructure audit fee is likely to be in excess of 50,000, Within the external audit process, it must be pre-approved by the Committee communications between the Committee Acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
and where appropriate, services are tendered and KPMG were extensive.
KPMG provided Other than these safeguards, the current competitively prior to the awarding of work.
updates to the Committee at the half-year policy does not impose an automatic The ramifications of the auditor rotation and running up to the year-end, including prohibition on the external auditor process are also considered.
regular commentaries on significant undertaking non-audit work that is not, or is issues and their assessment of prudence During 2014, the fees for non-audit services not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor in the judgements and estimates made by amounted to 0.2m, or 11% of the audit independence, provided it has the skill, management.
Private sessions were held with fee, similar to last year.
The fees comprised competence and integrity to carry out the KPMG without management being present, assurance services related to the review of work in the best interests of the Group.
covering reporting and control issues in the the Companys half-year financial statements context of the resourcing of the relatively As part of its Regulation of Statutory and limited taxation advice as detailed on new Group Finance team.
The strength of Audit Services, the EU has announced the page 113, for which it was concluded that the finance teams across the Group was framework of a more restrictive regime KPMG was best-placed to support the also considered.
In these sessions KPMG for non-audit services that will come Company.
The Committee also monitored confirmed that their work had not been into force in June 2016.
The details are fees paid to other large accounting firms as constrained in any way and that they were subject to some clarification and national part of the non-audit services fees review so able to exercise their appropriate professional optionality, but the restrictions will broadly as to determine where there might be any scepticism and challenge throughout the prohibit external auditors involvement current or future conflicts of interest.
in tax services, any services that involve 72 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Audit Committee continued External auditor reappointment the ten-year point.
Importantly, there are transitional arrangements in the EU The Committee is responsible for making Regulation which, given the tenure of KPMG, recommendations to the Board in relation mean that KPMG must rotate off as auditor to the appointment, reappointment and by the AGM following 17 June 2020 at the removal of the external auditor.
Given this limit and the timing of the new Order that The Competition and Markets next lead partner rotation, the Committee Authority CMA published in 2014, putting and the Board believe that there should be a into action major changes in the UK statutory competitive tender process before the AGM audit market, from this year, the Committee in 2021.
The implications for potential invitees has more direct responsibilities for overseeing to the tendering process in terms of their the external auditor relationship including fee capabilities and potential conflicts, particularly negotiation, tendering processes, lead partner in the provision of non-audit services, will be selection and non-audit services provision.
carefully considered in the meantime.
Such The Committee will monitor the practical considerations could give rise to changes in implementation of these requirements the provision of tax and other services ahead and will report on compliance in the next of the tender process itself.
Given the performance of KPMG and the In relation to considering the reappointment likely tendering framework, the Committee of KPMG for 2015, the Committee evaluated has recommended, and the Board has various factors, but most importantly the agreed, that, subject to shareholder approval, demonstrable quality of the teams delivering KPMG will be reappointed as auditor at the the audit, both locally and centrally, and in 2015 AGM.
particular the presence and capabilities of the lead partner.
The PwC review of the external Should any shareholder wish to discuss this audit process has been an important input overall approach and timing with me then this year and has underlined the excellence I should be happy to do so.
and robustness of the overall KPMG The committee evaluation relationship.
We also considered the overall quality of the firms work as reflected in the The Committees activities formed part of published reports of the Audit Quality Review the externally facilitated evaluation of Board Team of the Financial Reporting Council.
effectiveness performed during the year.
The performance of the Committee was viewed The Committee is well aware that KPMG as good by the participants, which included or its predecessor firms have had a longthe Board members not on the Committee, standing tenure as the auditor of Vesuvius Group financial management and the and its predecessors.
The services of KPMG external auditor.
The changes arising from the were retained during the demerger in 2012 previous years evaluation have had a positive as this was the most efficient means of effect, such as providing more time between undertaking the work.
The lead audit partner Committee and Board meetings and having a rotated at that time in accordance with the clearer demarcation of the risk management UK Corporate Governance Code.
The next process between the Committee and the partner rotation is due after the 2016 audit.
Further details of the evaluation of The Committee is conscious of the CMA the Board and its Committees are given on Order and EU Regulations regarding page64.
audit firm rotation that are now in place, On behalf of the Audit Committee for implementation in 2015 and 2016, respectively.
The prevailing EU Regulation will require audit firm rotation after a Jeff Hewitt maximum of ten years, with the possibility Chairman, Audit Committee of an extension of a further ten years if 3 March 2015 a competitive tender has taken place at
