Governance 73 Nomination Committee During the year the Committee, in line with The Committee operates under formal Drawing on the skills of these advisers, and its primary responsibility, focused on Board terms of reference which were reviewed and following a rigorous process conducted by succession planning ensuring that the updated during the year and approved by the the Nomination Committee in conjunction Board is made up ofindividuals with the Board.
The terms of reference are available on with the Board as a whole, Douglas Hurt as necessary skills, diversity and experience the Groups website www.
Audit Committee Chairman and Hock Goh to lead the Company.
as an additional independent Non-executive The Committee and its members are also Director, were identified as individuals with committee members empowered to obtain outside legal or other the skills and experience desired to support independent professional advice at the cost the oversight and strategic development John McDonough Committee Chairman of the Company in relation to its deliberations of the Company, and to complement the Nelda Connors which rights were not exercised during the existing composition of the Board.
As the Christer Gardell year and to secure the attendance at its recruitment process developed it was also Jeff Hewitt meetings of any employee or other parties resolved that Douglas Hurt should succeed Jane Hinkley itconsiders necessary.
Jeff Hewitt as Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination committee activity in 2014 As I have previously reported in my The Nomination Committee is made up of introductory letter, and as announced by During the year, the Committee considered myself, as Chairman of the Company and the Company on 3 March 2015, Hock Goh the appointment of a new Chairman of the any three of the Non-executive Directors.
and Douglas Hurt will join the Board on Audit Committee to succeed Jeff Hewitt, who During the year I continued as Chairman of 2 April 2015. has served on the boards of Cookson Group the Committee, though I would not act as plc and Vesuvius plc for a combined period of Chairman when the Committee is considering As part of the annual corporate governance nine years.
The requirement for an individual the appointment of my successor.
In this case, review, the Committee examined the with exemplary financial experience, together the Chairman would be an appropriate Nonindependence of the Board and the potential with the ability to enhance the collective executive Director.
The Company Secretary lengths of tenure of each of the independent experience and skills of the Board, formed is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee was the focus of deliberations.
It was also biographies are set out on pages 56 and 57. happy to report to the Board that it believes considered that the appointee would assume that the Board satisfies the independence meetings the role of Senior Independent Director, if a criteria set down by the UK Corporate candidate of sufficient experience and stature Governance Code.
The Committee met three times during 2014 was identified.
and I reported the outcome of our meetings Notwithstanding the two prospective In addition to identifying a successor for the to the Board.
Formal meetings were held appointments discussed above, the Audit Committee Chairman, the Nomination to consider standing items of business.
Committee will continue regularly to Committee also recommended to the However, particularly as a recruitment exercise examine succession and the Boards balance Board that its work and deliberations could was taking place, there was also a significant of skills, experience and diversity.
Succession be further enhanced by the appointment level of ad hoc discussion between members planning formed an integral part of the of another, additional, independent Nonof the Committee during the year.
Boards annual strategy review in 2014 and executive Director, bringing independent will continue to do so in 2015, led by the Role and responsibilities membership of the Board excluding the Nomination Committee.
The additional The Nomination Committees foremost Non-executive Director would also ideally Board composition priorities are to ensure that the Company has bring to the Board global technical services the best possible leadership and maintains All Directors have served at a very senior level know-how and direct experience of working a clear plan for both Executive and Nonin global organisations, have international in China in the industrial sector.
Its prime focus experience across a variety of industries, and is therefore on the strength of the Board, The Committee conducted a tender for most have spent a considerable amount of for which appointments are made on merit, services for the consultants to advise on each time resident outside the UK.
The Nomination against objective criteria, selecting the best of the appointments.
Given that different Committee continues to believe that diversity candidate for the post.
The Nomination skills and experience were required for the underpins the successful operation of an Committee advises the Board on the two roles, following the tender process effective Board and will continue with its appointments, retirements and resignations the Committee resolved to use different policy to review the requirements in respect from the Board and its Committees.
consultants to assist with each appointment.
of skills, experience background and gender A summary of the formal process utilised for in respect of the Boards composition.
Board appointments is set out later in this Committee report.
74 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Nomination Committee continued Process for Board appointments Senior management succession When considering Board appointments, During the year, as part of the overall Group the Nomination Committee draws strategic review, each of the Vesuvius business up a specification for the role, taking units and head office functions submitted into consideration the balance of skills, their succession plans in respect of senior knowledge and experience of its existing executives to the Board for review.
The Board members, thediversity of the Board, also actively seeks to meet key executives the independence of continuing Board throughout the Group both through formal members and the ongoing requirements Board meetings and informally in order to and anticipated strategic developments of gain a greater understanding of the breadth the Group.
The search process is then able and depth of management talent.
During to focus on appointing a candidate with the 2014 this process was augmented to include necessary attributes toenhance the Boards a series of presentations to the Board by performance.
business unit and functional heads, and the senior managers that work in their teams, TheCommittee utilises the services of search to ensure that the Board was exposed to firms to identify appropriate candidates, key senior management.
The success of this ensuring that the firm appointed does process will see it continued and expanded not have any other connection with the in 2015.
In this way members of the Board Company.
In addition, the Committee will and the Committee are able to adopt a more only use those firms that have adopted the informed approach to executive succession Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing planning and talent development across gender diversity and best practice in search the Group.
A long list of potential appointees will then be reviewed followed On behalf of the Nomination Committee by the shortlisting of candidates for interview based upon the objective criteria identified John mcDonough cBE at inception.
Care is taken to ensure that all Chairman, Nomination Committee proposed appointees have sufficient time 3 March 2015 available to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
The Committee then recommends a preferred candidate who will meet all Board members.
Finally, detailed external references are taken and following this the Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board on the appointment.
The preferred candidate would also be supported in undertaking their own due diligence on the Company and meeting with its advisers.
