Governance 61 Governance report The Board of Vesuvius plc the Company Roles and responsibilities of the Board The chairman and chief Executive is responsible for the Groups system of Ultimate responsibility for the management of The division of responsibilities between the corporate governance and is committed to the Group rests with the Board of Directors.
Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out maintaining high standards and to developing in writing and was reviewed during the year governance arrangements to comply with The Board focuses primarily upon strategic as part of the Companys annual corporate best practice.
This report describes the and policy issues and is responsible for the governance review.
No amendments were Companys corporate governance structure Groups long-term success.
It sets the Groups required.
The interactions in the governance and explains how, during the year ended strategy, oversees the allocation of resources process are shown on the schematic below.
31 December 2014, Vesuvius has applied and monitors the performance of the Group the main principles of the September 2012 in pursuit of this, all within a framework of Board committees edition of the UK Corporate Governance prudent and effective control which enables The principal governance Committees of Code issued by the Financial Reporting risks to be assessed and managed.
the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Council the Code.
Throughout the year The Board Nomination Committees.
Each Committee and up until the date of this report Vesuvius has written terms of reference, which were was in full compliance with the requirements The Board has a formal schedule of matters reviewed and updated where appropriate oftheCode.
A copy of the Code can be found reserved to it and delegates certain matters by the Board during the year.
These are on the FRC website at https: www.
It is anticipated that the available to view on the Companys website uk Our-Work Codes-Standards CorporateBoard will convene on seven scheduled www.
governance  during 2015 as well as holding Code.
ad hoc meetings to consider non-routine business if required.
Governance structure The Board Responsible for Group strategy, risk management and policy issues.
Monitors the Groups progress against the targets set chairman chief Executive Develops strategy for review and Provides leadership and guidance for approval of the Board.
Directs, the Board, promoting a high standard of monitors and maintains the operational corporate governance.
Sets the Board agenda performance of the Company.
Independent on Responsible for the application of appointment, he is the link between the Group policies and implementation Executive and Non-executive Directors of Group strategy.
Accountable to the Board for Group performance company Advises the Chairman on Senior Acts as a sounding board for Non-executive Exercise a strong, independent voice, Secretary Independent Directors governance, together with the Chairman, an alternative challenging and supporting Executive NEDs Director updates on regulatory and contact to the Chairman and Directors.
Supports as an intermediary for other against objectives and monitor reporting the Board agenda with clear Non-executive Directors.
Monitor and oversee information flow.
Acts as a the annual evaluation of the financial risk and controls, determine link between the Board and its Chairman and recruitment Executive Director remuneration and Committees and between NEDs process for his her replacement, manage Board succession through their and senior management when required Committee responsibilities 62 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Governance report continued Committee Role Chair of Committee Membership audit To monitor the integrity of financial Jeff Hewitt All independent Non-executive reporting and to assist the Board in Directors its review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems Remuneration To determine the appropriate Jane Hinkley All independent Non-executive remuneration packages for the Directors Groups Chairman, Executive Directors, and Company Secretary, and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for other senior management Nomination To advise the Board on appointments, John McDonough, the Chairman The Chairman and any three retirements and resignations from except when considering his Non-executive Directors the Board and its Committees and own succession in which case the review succession planning and Committee is chaired by an appropriate talent development for the Board Non-executive Director In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to a Finance Committee and Share Schemes Committee, which operate in accordance with the delegation of authority agreed by the Board.
Committee Role Chair of Committee Membership Finance To approve specific funding and John McDonough, the Chairman The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief treasury-related matters in accordance Financial Officer and Group Treasurer with the Groups delegated authorities or as delegated by the Board Share Schemes To facilitate the administration of Any Board member Any two Directors or a Director and the theCompanys share schemes Company Secretary The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee GEC, which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive, and assists him in discharging his responsibilities.
The GEC comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, the four business unit Presidents, the President Vesuvius North Asia, the Vice President Human Resources, the Chief Technology Officer, the President Operations and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee met seven times during 2014 and is scheduled to meet eight times during 2015.
Its meetings are held between the London head office and major operational sites.
Biographical details of the GEC members are set out on pages 58 and 59.
Board and committee attendance The attendance of Directors who served between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014, at the Board meetings and principal Committees of which they were a member held during this period, is shown in the table below.
The maximum number of meetings in the period during which the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee chairman John McDonough CBE 11 11 3 3 Executive Directors Franois Wanecq 11 11 Chris OShea 11 11 Non-executive Directors 1 1 1 1 Nelda Connors 9 11 4 5 2 4 2 3 2 Christer Gardell 11 11 2 3 Jeff Hewitt 11 11 5 5 4 4 3 3 3 Jane Hinkley 10 11 5 5 4 4 3 3 NOTES 1.
Nelda Connors was unable to attend the meetings held in February for personal reasons, and was unable to attend the December meetings due to international travel issues.
Christer Gardell could not attend a later than scheduled Nomination Committee meeting held in October due to a prior commitment.
Jane Hinkley was unable to attend the Board meeting held at short notice in November due to telecommunications difficulties whilst overseas.
Governance 63 To the extent that Directors are unable to The Boards overall skills and experience, as appointments to the Board attend scheduled meetings, or additional well as Non-executive Director independence, Recommendations for appointments to meetings called on short notice, they receive the were reviewed during the year as part of the the Board are made by the Nomination papers in advance and relay their comments annual corporate governance review.
The Nomination Committee to the Chairman for communication at the Boards composition also formed part of the follows a formal, rigorous and transparent meeting.
The Chairman follows up after the Board evaluation process.
The Board considers procedure for the appointment of new meeting in relation to the decisionstaken.
its diversity, size and composition to be Directors.
Board appointments are made on appropriate for the requirements of the merit against objective criteria, selecting the BOaRD EFFEcTIVENESS business.
Two of the seven Directors 29% best candidate for the post.
Non-executive are women and three 43% are non-UK Board composition appointees are also required to demonstrate citizens.
that they have sufficient time to devote The Board currently comprises seven The Board will continue to review its structure to the role.
The Nomination Committee is Directors the Non-executive Chairman, regularly to ensure that it comprises the responsible for reviewing Board succession John McDonough CBE: the Chief Executive, appropriate balance of skills, experience and to ensure that plans are in place for the Franois Wanecq: the Chief Financial Officer, diversity, with an ongoing focus on ensuring appropriate refreshing and orderly succession Chris OShea: and four Non-executive appropriate training and development of Board members.
Further information is set Directors, three of whom are deemed to opportunities are provided for all Directors.
out in the Nomination Committee report on be independent for the purposes of the UK pages73 and 74.
Jeff Hewitt Committee composition is set out in the is the Senior Independent Director.
No one other Time commitment of the chairman Knowles is the Company Secretary.
In than the Committee Chairman and members andthe Non-executive Directors addition, the Company has today announced of the Committee is entitled to participate The Chairman and Non-executive Directors the appointment of two new Non-executive in meetings of the Audit, Nomination and each have a letter of appointment which Directors Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt Remuneration Committees, but others may sets out the terms and conditions of who will join the Board with effect from attend by invitation.
Jeff Hewitt will retire as a The Board considers that half the Board, anticipated time commitment is provided Director of Vesuvius plc at the 2015 AGM.
excluding the Non-executive Chairman in any recruitment role specification, and Douglas Hurt will then become Chairman of namely Nelda Connors, Jeff Hewitt and Jane each Directors letter of appointment the Audit Committee and assume the role of Hinkley remain independent of management provides details of the meetings that they are Senior Independent Director.
and free from any business or other expected to attend, along with the need to The Boards policy on diversity focuses on relationship which could affect the exercise accommodate travelling time particularly for ensuring that both it, and its Committees, of their independent judgement.
Non-executive Directors are have the appropriate range of diversity, skills, Gardell is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital required to set aside sufficient time to prepare experience, independence and knowledge which holds 21.11% of Vesuvius issued for meetings, and regularly to refresh and of the Company to enable them to discharge ordinary share capital and is not considered update their skills and knowledge.
All Nontheir duties and responsibilities effectively.
He brings a wealth executive Directors have agreed to commit The Board continues to look at diversity in of commercial acumen to the Board.
The sufficient time for the proper performance its broadest sense: this is reflected in the Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of their responsibilities, acknowledging that range of backgrounds and experience of on his appointment to the Board.
Biographical this will vary from year to year depending our Board members who are drawn from details of the current Directors are set out on on the Groups activities.
Directors are different nationalities and have significant pages 56 and 57. expected to attend all scheduled Board and experience of managing complex global Committee meetings and any additional businesses.
We believe that it is important meetings as required.
Each Directors other to get the right balance of independence, significant commitments are disclosed to skills and knowledge, both on the Board and the Board at the time of their appointment across our businesses.
The Board supports the and they are required to notify the Board of recommendations of Lord Davies report on any subsequent changes.
The Company has gender diversity and complies with the target reviewed the availability of the Non-executive set for FTSE 100 boards.
Directors and considers that each of them is able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount of time to the Companys business.
64 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Governance report continued Induction and training All Directors have access to the advice and through effective succession planning.
As a services of the Company Secretary.
There result of the evaluation, the Board has tasked A comprehensive induction programme is also an agreed procedure in place for the Nomination Committee with focusing is available to new Directors.
This is Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, on producing a more detailed succession tailored to meet the requirements of the to take independent legal advice at the plan identifying high potential individuals individual appointee, and includes visits to Companys expense.
manufacturing facilities, meetings with key Group executives and introductions to the Performance evaluation appointment and replacement Companys principal external advisers, as ofDirectors In accordance with the provisions of the appropriate.
Reference materials are provided, Code, the Chairman led a formal and rigorous The Board membership should not be including information about the Board, its evaluation of the Boards performance and fewer than five nor more than 15, save that Committees, Directors duties, procedures for effectiveness during the year, together with the Company may, by ordinary resolution, dealing in the Companys shares and other an evaluation of the performance of the from time to time vary this minimum and regulatory and governance matters.
Directors Boards Committees and an individual review or maximum number of Directors.
Directors are advised of their legal and other duties and of each Board member.
In addition, the Senior may be appointed by ordinary resolution obligations as Directors of a listed company.
Independent Director led an evaluation of the or by the Board.
A Director appointed by The Company Secretary monitors this process performance of the Chairman.
The Company the Board must retire from office at the first and ensures that if, after a certain period engaged an external moderator, Lintstock Ltd, Annual General Meeting AGM after his of appointment, new Directors feel that an independent advisory firm that provides her appointment.
A Director who retires in they have not received sufficient induction advice to the Company on governance this way is then eligible for reappointment.
information, support for any subsequent matters and practices.
The Board may appoint one or more Directors requirements is supplied.
to any executive office, on such terms and The 2014 evaluation built on the themes The Chairman, through the Company for such period as it thinks fit and it can also identified from the 2013 review, in addition to Secretary, continues to ensure that there is terminate or vary such an appointment at which Lintstock consulted with the Chairman, an ongoing process to review training and any time.
The Articles specify that at every Company Secretary and the Chairmen of each development needs.
Directors are provided AGM, any Director who has been appointed of the Audit and Remuneration Committees with details of seminars and training courses by the Vesuvius Board since the last AGM in the formulation of the content and focus of relevant to their role.
They are encouraged to and any Director who held office at the time the 2014 evaluation.
Lintstock also examined attend these as they consider appropriate and of the two preceding AGMs and who did the balance of individual skills and experience, are supported by the Company in doing so.
not retire at either of them, shall retire from independence, and knowledge of the Where a general training need is identified, office.
However, in accordance with the Company amongst the Directors, together in-house training is provided to the entire requirements of the Code, all the Directors with Board diversity including gender and Board.
Regulatory updates are provided as will offer themselves for re-election at this Board interaction and effectiveness as part of a standing item at each Board meeting in a years AGM.
The biographical details of each the evaluation.
Lintstock collated responses Secretarys Report.
of the Directors who are offering themselves from participants and presented an analysis for re-election, including details of their Information and support of the results to the Chairman.
This analysis other directorships and relevant skills and was circulated to the Board and formed the The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely experience, will be set out in the 2015 Notice basis of one-on-one discussions conducted manner, information of an appropriate of AGM.
The biographical details of the by the Chairman with each member of the quality to enable it to adequately discharge current Directors are set out on pages 56 and Board and the Company Secretary.
Papers are provided to the 57.
The Board believes that each of the current conversations also covered the output from Directors in advance of the relevant Board or Directors standing for re-election is effective the individual Director reviews.
Finally, specific Committee meeting to enable them to make and demonstrates commitment to his her action points generated from the 2013 Board further enquiries about any matters prior to respective role.
In addition the Board believes evaluation were reviewed at the December the meeting should they so wish.
This also that the new independent Non-executive Board meeting, where it was reported allows Directors who are unable to attend Directors, Hock Goh and DouglasHurt, that during the year, these had either been to submit views in advance of the meeting.
who will join the Board on 2 April 2015, will addressed or, where they represented serve as valuable additions to the Board.
In addition to the formal processes, the longer-term goals, considerable progress Accordingly, the Board recommends that Chief Executive provides written updates on had been made.
shareholders approve the resolutions to important Company business issues and the The overall outcome of the evaluation was be proposed at the 2015 AGM relating Board is provided with monthly updates on that the Board and its individual Directors to the election and re-election of all the key financial and management information.
are performing effectively, that the Board Directors standing.
Regular updates on shareholder issues and continues to promote open debate and is discussions are provided to the Board, who well-supported in terms of information flow.
also receives copies of analysts notes issued The priorities the Board identified included a on the Company.
Directors have access to a continued focus on the delivery of the Groups secure online portal used for the distribution strategy and securing the future of Vesuvius of all information.
Governance 65 Directors conflicts of interest BOaRD accOUNTaBILITY with appropriately.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the The Board has established a formal system The audit committee effectiveness of the Groups system of internal to authorise situations where a Director has control, including financial, operational and The members of the Audit Committee are set an interest that conflicts, or may possibly compliance controls, and risk management out on page67.
The Audit Committee report conflict, with the interests of the Company systems.
The key features of the Groups which describes the Audit Committees work Situational Conflicts.
Directors declare system of internal control are set out below.
in discharging its responsibilities, is set out on Situational Conflicts so that they can be pages 67 to 72. considered for authorisation by the nonReviewing the Effectiveness conflicted Directors.
In considering a of internalcontrol Risk management and internal control Situational Conflict these Directors act in the The Board has overall responsibility for The internal control system covers the Group way they consider would be most likely to establishing and maintaining a system of as a whole, and is monitored and supported promote the success of the Company, and risk management and internal control, and by the Groups internal audit function, which may impose limits or conditions when giving for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is conducts reviews of Vesuvius businesses and authorisation or subsequently if they think designed to manage, rather than eliminate, reports objectively both on the adequacy and this is appropriate.
The Company Secretary the risks facing the Group and safeguard effectiveness of the system of internal control records the consideration of any conflict and its assets.
No system of internal control can and on those businesses compliance with records any authorisations granted.
The Board provide absolute assurance against material Group policies and procedures.
The Audit believes that the system it has in place for misstatement or loss.
The Groups system Committee receives reports from the Group reporting Situational Conflicts continues to is designed to provide the Directors with Head of Internal Audit and reports to the operate effectively.
No Situational Conflicts reasonable assurance that problems are Board on the results of itsreview.
were brought to the Board for authorisation identified on a timely basis and are dealt during the year under review.
Process Elements Strategy and Comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting process financial reporting Annual budget approved by the Board Monthly operating financial information reported against budget Key trends and variances analysed and action taken as appropriate.
Vesuvius GaaP Accounting policies and procedures formulated and disseminated to all Group operations Covers the application of accounting standards, the maintenance of accounting records and key financial controlprocedures.
Operational controls Operating companies and corporate offices maintain internal controls and procedures appropriate to their structure and business environment Compliance with Group policies on items such as authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions andthemanagement of intellectual property, and regulatory issues Use of common accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting software used in financial reporting andconsolidation Significant financing and investment decisions reserved to the Board The Board monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
Risk assessment Continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks and management Risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business Reports made to the Board on how those risks are managed Each major Group business unit produces a risk map to identify key risks, assess the likelihood of risks occurring, their impact and mitigating actions The Board reviews insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group The Board is notified of major issues and makes an annual assessment of how risks have changed.
66 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Governance report continued As part of the Boards process for reviewing Relations with shareholders the effectiveness of the system of internal The Board is committed to communicating control, itdelegates certain matters tothe with shareholders and stakeholders in Audit Committee.
a clear and open manner, and seeks to Following the Audit Committees review ensure effective engagement through the of internal financial controls and of the Companys regular communications, the processes covering other controls, the Board AGM and other investor relations activities.
annually evaluates the results of the internal The Company undertakes an ongoing control and risk management procedures programme of meetings with investors, which conducted by senior management.
This is managed by the Chief Executive and Chief includes a self-certification exercise by which Financial Officer.
The majority of meetings senior financial, operational and functional with investors are led by them.
The Chairman, management throughout the Group certify Senior Independent Director and Committee their compliance throughout the year with Chairs also remain open for discussion with the Groups policies andprocedures.
shareholders on matters under their areas of responsibility, either through contacting the In accordance with the provisions of the Code, Company Secretary or directly at the AGM.
the Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of The Company reports its financial results internal control and that the necessary actions to shareholders twice a year, with the have been taken to remedy any control publication of its Annual and Half-year weaknesses identified during the year.
In 2014, it also issued two Interim management statements.
In Since the date of this review there have been conjunction with these announcements, no significant changes in internal controls presentations or teleconference calls are or other matters which could significantly held with institutional investors and analysts.
Recordings of these are made available on Executive compensation and risk the Groups website www.
com along with copies of any presentation All of the independent Non-executive materials issued.
Directors serve on both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
They therefore Regular updates on shareholder issues and bring their experience and knowledge of discussions are provided to the Board.
Board the activities of each Committee to bear members also receive copies of significant when considering the critical judgements analysts notes issued on the Company.
This means that the Directors All Directors are expected to attend the are in a position to consider carefully the Companys AGM, providing shareholders impact of incentive arrangements on the with the opportunity to question them Groups risk profile and to ensure the Groups about issues relating to the Group, either remuneration policy and programme are during the meeting or informally afterwards.
structured so as to accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Company.
Share capital and voting Disclosure of the information regarding share capital, the authorisation received by Directors at the AGM regarding the issue of shares and the authority to purchase own shares, is contained on page 95 of the Directors report.
There are no restrictions on voting contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Further details are set out in the Directors report on page 96.
