Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 35 Corporate governance The Board of Directors the Board recognises the importance of sound governance and its role in achieving sustainable growth.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and it supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Victrex continues to maintain and review its systems, processes and policies to support its sustainability and governance practices.
Statement of compliance The Senior Independent Director is In discharging its responsibilities, the Board A detailed review has been performed awareof the views of the Companys also seeks to set, promote and demonstrate ofthe Companys compliance with the major shareholders and has a balanced adherence to our values and ethical standards Codepublished by the Financial Reporting understanding through regular feedback for the Company.
It remains mindful of the Council FRC in June 2010 and revised from the Chairman and the CEO and need to observe the duties owed by Directors inSeptember 2012.
We have been mindful Group Finance Director.
Code provision in law, including promoting the sustainable toensure that we comply not just with the E. 1.1. envisages that meetings would take success of the Company, not only for our principles of the Code but also the spirit place between the Senior Independent shareholders, but also for our stakeholders, ofthe Code.
In assessing our approach, Director and major shareholders during which includes our employees, suppliers, wehave had regard to the FRC guidance year.
Both the Chairman and the Senior customers and wider community.
onBoard Effectiveness March 2011 and Independent Directors make themselves The offices of the Chairman and the theFRC guidance on audit committees available for meetings, however, none ChiefExecutive Officer CEO are separate September 2012.
We are also cognisant were requested in the current year and and clearly distinct.
The division of their ofthe 2014 update to the Code, which is nosuch meetings took place.
Further responsibilities is set out in writing and has effective for year ends from 1October 2014. information on how we engage with been approved by the Board.
There is no shareholders is set out on page 40.
This report, including the Directors Deputy Chairman.
The CEO is responsible Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 56, The 2012 revised Code included a new for the day to day running of the Group, describes how the main principles of good provision C. 3.7 in relation to audit tendering.
carrying out agreed strategy and implementing governance have been applied throughout The Company has not complied in full with specific Board decisions.
part of this provision which states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external Except as referred to below, the Company audit contract out to tender at least every has complied with all relevant provisions ten years.
As noted on page 42, KPMG has ofthe Code throughout the year ended p. 32-33 been our auditor since the MBO in 1993.
30September 2014 and from that date up to Consistent with good governance principles, The names, biographical the date of publication of this Annual Report.
we review independence and objectivity details and significant time Provision B.
6.2 requires the board annually as part of our annual review of the commitments of the members evaluation of FTSE 350 companies to effectiveness of the external audit process.
of the Board beexternally facilitated at least every In light of the requirement of the Code, EU three years.
The last such evaluation was Regulation and the recommendations of in 2011 and the intention was that an the Competition and Markets Commission, externally facilitated evaluation would the Audit Committee will keep the timing p. 44 take place in 2014.
However, given a new of an audit tender under review.
incoming Chairman from October 2014, Directors Remuneration Report after careful consideration and discussion, Leadership the Board chose to conduct an internally The Role of the Board facilitated process, postponing the The role of the Board is to provide external facilitation until 2015. entrepreneurial leadership and the Directors are collectively responsible for the long-term visit us online success of the Company.
The Board also acts Find out more on our website as custodian of the Companys values and at www.
com ofits long-term vision and provides strategic direction and guidance for the Company.
The names, biographical details and significant time commitments of the members of the Board are set out on pages32 and 33. www.
com 36 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Corporate governance framework Victrex plc Board Chief Audit Nominations Remuneration Disclosure Executives Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee ELT Invibio Internal Audit External Audit VPS BusinessUnit BusinessUnit Leadership continued Sheis also responsible for leading the ensure that, in addition to the day to day The Role of the Board continued review of the Chairmans performance, matters requiring its consideration, all The Chairman is responsible for the leadership aspart of the annual Board evaluation.
necessary matters are covered and to allow of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in TheCompany Secretary reports to the sufficient time for debate and challenge, all aspects of its role.
The Chairman is also Chairman on governance matters and particularly on areas such as strategy.
responsible for creating theright board isresponsible forkeeping the Board up During the financial year, the Board considered dynamic and for promoting a culture of todateon all legislative, regulatory and a wide variety of matters including corporate openness and debate, in addition to ensuring governance matters.
She is also responsible development opportunities, the Groups constructive and productive relations between for supporting the Chairman and other strategic plan, financial performance of the executive and non-executive Directors.
Board members as necessary, including Company, riskmanagement and controls TheChairman is also an ambassador for themanagement of Board and Committee within the Company, strategy and performance theCompany to shareholders and meetings and their evaluation, advising on of thebusiness units and Board effectiveness widerstakeholders.
Directors duties and facilitating appropriate, and evaluation.
high quality and timely information flows The executive Directors are responsible between the business and the Board.
Matters reserved for the Board forthe running of the business.
The anddelegation of authority non-executive Directors are responsible Operation of the Board There are certain matters that are deemed forexercising independent and objective The Board is responsible for the Groups significant enough to be reserved for Board judgement in respect of Board decisions, strategic development, monitoring decision only.
A clearly documented schedule developing corporate strategy with senior achievement of its business objectives, of matters reserved for Board decision is management and for scrutinising and oversight of risk and maintaining a system reviewed annually by the Board to ensure constructively challenging the actions ofeffective corporate governance, which itcontinues to be appropriate for the ofsenior management.
includes the responsibility for health, safety, Company.
These matters include: environmental, social and ethical matters.
Our Senior Independent Director SID, The Board discharges these responsibilities setting the Groups strategy and approval Pamela Kirby who took over as SID from through scheduled meetings, which include of the Companys long-term objectives: Giles Kerr on 1 November 2014, acts as regular reviews of financial performance and asounding board to the Chairman and approval of half-yearly reports, interim critical business issues and benchmarking serves as an intermediary for other management statements and any performance against our strategic plan Directors when necessary.
She is also preliminary announcements of the andobjectives.
available to shareholders should they finalresults: haveany concerns, where contact through The Boards agenda is determined against changes to the Companys capital the normal channels is inappropriate.
apre-planned programme of business to structure: www.
com Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 37 Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at the Board and committee meetings convened in the year to 30 September 2014 was as follows: Attended Not attended Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings Chairman A M Frew n a n a Executive Directors D R Hummel n a n a n a L S Burdett n a n a n a T J Cooper n a n a n a A S Barrow n a n a n a Non-executive Directors L C Pentz G F B Kerr P J M fide Smedt P J Kirby L C Pentz was appointed Chairman with effect from 1 October 2014, with A M Frew stepping down on 30 September.
Following his appointment, L C Pentz ceased to be a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees and became Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
A S Barrow resigned from the Board on 31 January 2014 and L S Burdett was appointed effective 1 February 2014. approval of the dividend policy: of the risk management process over recent The Nominations, Audit and Remuneration years, and the activities of the Executive Committee reports are described on pages major contracts and capital expenditure: Leadership Team in that risk management 41 to 44 and the Risk Management and approval of risk management policy process, and the Audit Committees enhanced Disclosure Committees on page 38.
These andframework: responsibilities in terms of supporting the Committees operate under clearly defined Board in its risk responsibilities, the Group terms of reference and report to the Board major investments: and Risk Management Committee has been at each Board meeting via the Committee treasury and cash management policy.
Such evolutions in process help Chairmen.
The terms of reference are further embed and drive the effectiveness reviewed at least annually, with any revisions The Board delegates day to day and business and efficiencies of risk management in proposed by the respective Committees and management control to the executive ourbusiness.
The sub Risk Management then approved by the Board.
The Board has Directors, who in turn delegate as Committees VPS Risk Management provided its Committees with sufficient appropriate to senior management.
Committee, Invibio Risk Management resources to undertake their duties, including Board committees Committee and Support Services Risk access to the services of the Company Secretary The Board has delegated certain Management Committee will continue and external advisors, where appropriate.
responsibilities to Board committees namely: tomeet and report to the ELT Risk Attendance at meetings Management Committee.
the Nominations Committee: Directors attendance at the Board and The Board has ultimate responsibility committee meetings convened intheyear the Audit Committee: forthe approval of the treasury and cash to30 September 2014 is showninthe the Remuneration Committee: and management policy and continues to table above.
besupported in its work by the Currency the Disclosure Committee.
Although not a member of the Committees, Committee.
The Currency Committee Anita Frew, David Hummel and Louisa Burdett Until September 2014, the Board was ischaired by the Group Finance Director, attended a number of Audit Committee and supported in its responsibilities by the Louisa Burdett and meets on a monthly Remuneration Committee meetings as invited Group Risk Management Committee, basis to manage the application of the attendees, when appropriate.
which was chaired by the non-executive Groups treasury policy, which has been Director Larry Pentz, and was responsible approved and reviewed annually by for ensuring that all significant risks facing theBoard.
Further details on the policy the Group were reduced to an acceptable andtheactivities of the Currency level.
During the course of the year, the Committee are included in note 13 Group Risk Management Committee met .
However, due to the strengthening www.
com 38 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Risk Management Committee Disclosure Committee The Chief Executives Chairman Larry Pentz Chairman Larry Pentz, David Committee ELT Hummel or Louisa Burdett The Risk Management Committee In discharging his responsibilities, the theRMC was in operation throughout The Disclosure Committees ChiefExecutive is assisted by the the 2014 financial year.
However, effective responsibilities are to ensure that the Executive Leadership Team the ELT.
from1 October 2014, its responsibilities Companys obligations to make timely The ELT comprises the Chief Executive, will besubsumed into the Audit Committee and accurate disclosure of information the Group Finance Director, the Managing andELT Risk Management Committee, as inaccordance with any applicable law Director of VPS and Managing Director of appropriate.
It was chaired by Larry Pentz orregulation are met in circumstances Invibio.
They are supported bythe Group and comprised the executive Directors, where it is impractical for the Board, HR Director and the General Counsel and Managing Director of Invibio, the General orany other Board Committee with Company Secretary.
This team is responsible Counsel and Company Secretary, Head of delegated responsibility, to fulfil those for making recommendations tothe Business Assurance, VPS Manufacturing obligations.
In accordance with these Board on matters that are reserved for Director and Global SHE Manager.
The RMC responsibilities, the Committee may their decision such as strategy, corporate was responsible for ensuring that all make disclosures on behalf of the development and annual budgets.
The significant risks facing the Group are Board.
The Committee will take advice, ELT usually meets on a monthly basis.
reduced to an acceptable level.
including from the Companys broker, external auditor and legal advisors, on Full details of the way the risk the form and content of any disclosure management framework operates at under consideration.
Victrex are given on pages 16 and 17.
The Committee comprises all Directors During the course of the year, the RMC ofthe Company and the General Counsel met twice and reported to the Board and Company Secretary.
The Chairman after each meeting.
ofeach Committee meeting will be The Board annually undertakes a formal appointed on anad hoc basis.
Meetings review of the effectiveness of the risk ofthe Committee may be called by any management framework, policies and member of the Committee on any period the performance of the RMC.
Twice a ofnotice provided that notice is given year the Board reviews the key risks in toallmembers.
the Group risk register, thereby allowing it the opportunity to review the level of risk the Board is prepared to accept in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
This process will continue in 2015. p. 41 p. 44 Nominations Committee Report Remuneration CommitteeReport p. 42 Audit Committee Report The terms of reference of the Nominations, Audit, Remuneration and Risk Management Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com and in paper form on request from the Registered Office of the Company.
com Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 39 Board effectiveness In response to the Davies Report, the Board Executive Directors performance is reviewed Composition, independence published a statement on Board diversity, by the Remuneration Committee in conjunction anddiversity ofthe Board which has been published on the investor with the Chief Executive, except in the case Throughout the year, the Board comprised section of our website.
of his own performance review.
The Chairmans anon-executive Chairman, four other performance is reviewed by the Remuneration Re-election of Directors non-executive Directors and three executive Committee in conjunction with the All Directors retire at each Annual General Directors.
Following the resignation of ChiefExecutive.
Meeting AGM and may offer themselves AnitaFrew on 30 September 2014, the Board for re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, During the year, pursuant to the Code, the will comprise three executive Directors, three all the Directors will retire at the AGM in Chairman met with the other non-executive non-executive Directors and a Chairman.
The February 2015 and the Notice of AGM on Directors without the executive Directors Code requirement that at least half the Board page 87 gives details of those Directors present, and the Senior Independent Director should be independent non-executive Directors seeking re-election.
Further information on met with the other non-executive Directors, has continued to be met.
The non-executive both the appointment and replacement of without the Chairman present.
Directors including the Chairman, Larry Pentz, Directors is given in the Directors Report upon his appointment are all considered by Future reviews onpage 57. theBoard to be independent of management The 2015 board evaluation will be facilitated and free from any business or other relationship Conflicts of interest externally.
The Board intends toundertake that could materially interfere with the exercise Under the Companies Act 2006, a director an externally facilitated evaluation process of their independent judgement.
must avoid a situation where a direct or atleast every three years, in line with the indirect conflict of interest may occur and Code.
In the intervening years, the review The composition of the Board is intended procedures are in place to deal with any will be facilitated by the Chairman supported toensure that its membership represents situation where a conflict may be perceived.
bythe Senior Independent Director and amix of backgrounds and experience that The Board confirms that it has considered Company Secretary, as outlined above.
will enhance the quality of its deliberations and authorised any conflicts or potential and decisions.
Diversity in board composition The 2011 evaluation was the last externally conflicts of interest in accordance with is an important driver of board effectiveness.
The Board has specifically In looking for prospective Directors, there considered the other appointments held Induction and training isregard to the skills of the Board at that byDirectors, details of which are contained All new non-executive Directors receive time and the need to address longer-term in their biographies on page 32 and 33, and apersonalised induction programme, succession and business priorities.
The has confirmed that each is able to devote tailored to their experience, background annual formal evaluation of the Board sufficient time to fulfil the duties required and particular area of focus.
The programme takesBoard diversity into account and ofthem under the terms of their contracts has evolved over time to take into account isinstrumental in identifying any new or letters of appointment.
It includes a wide skillrequirements, as well as possible range of meetings with other Directors and shortcomings, gaps or inefficiencies.
Board evaluation senior management, attending results and The Board recognises that a rigorous Our current female representation on broker briefings and opportunities to visit performance evaluation is important to theBoard is 29% and therefore exceeds the Groups operations outside of the UK.
A formal theminimum target representation level New executive Directors also receive an evaluation of the Board, Board committees tobe achieved by 2015 as recommended induction focused on their new role and andindividual Directors performance is carried bythe Davies Review.
The Board recognises wider responsibilities and include briefings out annually.
Given the appointment of Larry the importance of gender diversity at the on areas such as Directors duties and Pentz as the new Chairman, effective from level below the Board and is committed corporate governance guidelines and 1October 2014, after careful consideration toensuring an appropriate level of gender bestpractice.
Louisa Burdett received an bythe Board, the externally facilitated board diversity, in particular at senior management appropriately tailored induction on joining evaluation was postponed until 2015.
There is a commitment in the Company the Company earlier this year.
evaluation was therefore conducted internally to support women in overcoming barriers they and led bythe incoming Chairman Larry Pentz.
Training including social, environmental face in rising to the top of the management Thereview considered a range of factors and ethical matters is also provided.
The female representation on the including the balance of skills and experience, Itisconsidered as part of the Board ELT is 25%.
Further information on the total independence of the Board, board diversity, evaluation process and any specific female representation on our workforce is board agenda and relations between executive trainingor development needs are provided in our Sustainability Report on and non-executive Directors.
The results of the addressed either individually or as part page 20 to 31. review demonstrated improvements in areas ofthe annual Director training session.
We also recognise the importance of identified in 2013, including devoting more Inthecurrent year, Directors training diversity in general at Board level and our Board time to discussing strategic matters included recent updates to corporate Board members comprise a number of andsuccession planning.
The 2014 evaluation governance best practice and cyber different nationalities with a wide range of process concluded that the Board is effective risktraining.
experience from a variety of business infulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and backgrounds.
Further information on our that each Director continues to demonstrate Group HR policies, including those on equal avaluable contribution.
opportunities and diversity, is set out on page 28. www.
com 40 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Board effectiveness continued only provide reasonable and not absolute to implement the recommendations of the Information and support assurance against material misstatement Turnbull Committee and by reporting in The Board receives sufficient management orloss.
In addition, the Board is responsible accordance with these recommendations.
information and reports on the right strategic for establishing formal and transparent Further details of the risk management and operational matters on a timely basis.
arrangements for considering how it framework operating at Victrex are given This normally includes comprehensive papers shouldapply the corporate reporting, risk onpages 16 and 17. on matters where the Board is required management and internal control principles tomake a decision or give its approval in and for maintaining an appropriate relationship Relations with shareholders addition to detailed reports on the current with the Companys auditor.
The Board The Board as a whole has a responsibility trading of the two business units on a confirms that there is a framework of forensuring that satisfactory engagement monthly basis.
The Chief Executive also continuous and on-going processes in place with shareholders takes place, based on updated the Board on progress against the for identifying, evaluating and management themutual understanding of objectives.
Briefings by significant risks faced by the Company.
TheBoard achieves this through effective operational management also take place Theseprocesses were reviewed by the Risk dialogue with shareholders and analysts, regularly toenhance the Boards committee in the current year together with with the Chief Executive, Group Finance understanding ofthebusiness.
its sub-committees and by the Board.
From Director and Head of Investor Relations October 2014, this will be undertaken by the Directors can also take independent leading these relationships.
ELT Risk Management Committee, with the professional advice where necessary at Audit Committee taking responsibility for The Board believes that appropriate steps theCompanys expense and have access reviewing the risk management systems and have been taken during the year to ensure tothe services of the Company Secretary.
the effectiveness of these systems.
The Board that the members of the Board, and in The Company Secretary is responsible for will continue to review the principal risks particular the non-executive Directors ensuring that Board procedures are followed faced by the Company at least twice a year.
develop an understanding of the views of and providing advice to the Board on major shareholders on the Company.
Both the appointment The Boards view of the key strategic and steps included, for example, analyst and and removal of the Company Secretary are operational risks including environmental, broker briefings, consideration by the Board matters for the Board as a whole.
social and governance ESG risks and how of monthly brokers reports and feedback we seek to manage those risks is set out Appropriate levels of insurance cover are from shareholder meetings on a six monthly onpages 16 to19.
obtained for all Directors and Officers of the basis.
The canvassing of major shareholders Company.
Further information on Directors The independent Business Assurance views for the Board in a detailed investor indemnities is given in the Directors Report function supports the Board in its review of survey is conducted twice a year by our on page 57. the effectiveness of the system of internal brokers, J P Morgan.
There is a rolling programme of Chairman is available to meet institutional Accountability business assurance review carried out across shareholders.
The Senior Independent Financial and business reporting the Group, co-ordinated by the Head of Director and other non-executive Directors The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, Business Assurance, who independently will attend meetings with major shareholders balanced and understandable assessment reports to the Chairman of the Audit if requested.
No such meetings were requested ofthe Groups position and prospects.
Committee in relation to business assurance during the year.
Reporting is at a business unit level with the matters.
The Audit Committee reviews the Institutional investor relations activity headof each business unit reporting to the annual business assurance plan, its findings, isnormally concentrated in the periods Board through a standardised reporting effectiveness, allocation of appropriate following the announcement of the interim process.
TheGroup has a comprehensive resources and risk management activities and final results.
However, in 2014 Victrex annual budgeting process and the annual and priorities.
increased the regularity of its meetings budget isapproved by the Board.
The Audit Committee oversees with investors through a number of Reforecasts are presented to the Board four whistleblowing arrangements, by which conferences and a roadshow for prospective times during theyear.
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns investors in the USA.
More broadly based The statement that gives the reasons why about possible improprieties in matters of presentations and site visits are arranged theDirectors continue to adopt the going financial reporting or other matters.
The when there is a sufficient demand to concern basis for preparing the financial Company continues to operate its Global makethem cost effective.
The Board is statements is given in the Directors Report Code of Conduct policy and has embedded alsocommitted to the regularity of investor on page 58. this throughout the Company, following days to keep the market updated on our itslaunch in 2013.
This policy includes strategy and growth plans, alongside our Risk management important areas such as anti-bribery, data financial reporting.
 protection and conflicts of interest.
It is a The Board, supported by the Audit All shareholders will have the opportunity fundamental policy to upholding our good Committee and ELT Risk Management toask questions at the forthcoming AGM.
reputation as a business and one that can Committee, is responsible for determining The Chairs of the Audit, Nominations and be trusted by all stakeholder groups.
the nature and extent of the significant risks Remuneration Committees will be available it is willing to take in achieving its strategic The Board and Audit Committee have to answer questions at that meeting.
It is ultimately responsible for reviewed the effectiveness of the internal at the AGM is conducted by way of a show maintaining sound risk management systems control system, including financial, operational of hands in order to encourage questions including financial controls, controls in respect and compliance controls, and risk management from and interaction with private investors.
of the financial reporting process and controls in accordance with the Code.
We confirm Proxy votes lodged on each AGM resolution of an operational and compliance nature.
A that the Group has complied with the Code and are announced at the meeting and sound system of internal control is designed provisions on internal control by operating published on the Companys website to manage rather than eliminate the risk of throughout the year ended 30 September andannounced via the Regulatory failure to achieve business objectives and can 2014 and up to the date of approval of this Information Service.
Annual Report those procedures necessary www.
com Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 41 Nominations Committee Report Chairman Larry Pentz Membership AGM following their appointment and Boardroom diversity The Nominations Committee comprises all annually thereafter.
The Boards Statement on Diversity, of the non-executive Directors and is chaired whichhas been published on our website, The Nominations Committee is also responsible by the Company Chairman Larry Pentz, isas follows: for senior management succession planning following the resignation of Anita Frew to ensure the identification and development The Board of Victrex plc welcomed the fromthe Board on 30 September 2014. of senior management with potential for publication in February 2011 of the Davies The Committee met on two occasions Board and ELT positions.
Review on Women on Boards.
Our current during the year.
female representation on the Board is 29% The main activities of the Nominations and is therefore aligned with that minimum Committee during the financial year Responsibilities representation level by 2015 as recommended ended30 September 2014 included The Committee is responsible for regularly by the Davies Review.
We also recognise the leadingthe selection process for, and reviewing the structure, size and composition importance of diversity in general at Board making recommendations to the Board of the Board, including Board diversity, level and our Board members comprise a regarding, the appointment to the role of succession planning and identifying and number of different nationalities with a Group Financial Director, an appropriate recommending appropriate candidates for widerange of experience from a variety successor for our former Chairman, membership of the Board when vacancies ofbusiness backgrounds.
AnitaFrew, and considering thecontribution arise.
The Committee has applied the UK and commitment of the Directors standing Corporate Governance Code provisions for re-election.
The Committee also indeveloping the Companys policies on strengthened and embedded the Companys succession planning and appointment.
In considering an appointment, the A rigorous and transparent process was Committee evaluates the balance of skills, inplace for the two Board appointments.
knowledge and experience of the Board External search consultancies were engaged andprepares a description of the role for both appointments.
Egon Zehnder, andcapabilities required for a particular which has no other connection with the appointment.
Internal candidates are Company, assisted with the process to select considered where appropriate.
JCA The Nominations Committee also reviews Consultants provided assistance with the the time required from each non-executive selection process for the new Chairman.
Director and any other significant Anita Frew, the retiring Chairman, was not commitments of the Chairman.
The 2014 involved in the selection or appointment of review found the non-executives time her successor.
This process was led by Giles commitments to be sufficient to discharge Kerr, our Senior Independent Director at their responsibilities effectively.
JCA Consultants does not have any other connection with the Company.
Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, the Directors submit themselves for re-election at the www.
com 42 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report Chairman Giles Kerr Membership review and challenge actions and External audit The Committee members have been selected judgements of management in relation Non-audit services with the aim of providing the wide range of tointerim and annual statements: To further safeguard the independence and financial and commercial expertise required objectivity of the external auditor, non-audit review the effectiveness of the internal tofulfil the Committees duties.
services provided by the external auditor, audit function: KPMG, were authorised in accordance with The Audit Committee is chaired by Giles Kerr, a reviewing the Companys internal financial the non-audit services policy.
This policy is qualified Chartered Accountant with significant controls that is, the systems established outlined in an appendix to the Committee relevant financial experience, and comprised to identify, assess, manage and monitor terms of reference, which are published on Larry Pentz, Patrick fide Smedt and Pamela financial risks and the Companys internal our website.
This policy places constraints Kirby.
Following his appointment as Chairman control management systems: on the quantum and type of services of the Company, Larry Pentz has ceased to be undertaken by our auditor with the aim a member of the AuditCommittee.
The review the Committees terms of reference, ofprotecting the independence and qualifications of the Audit Committee carrying out an annual performance objectivity of our auditor.
Non-audit fees members are outlined in the Directors evaluation exercise and noting the forthe year ended 30 September 2014 biographies on page 32 and 33. satisfactory operation of the Committee: were58,000 2013: 63,000.
The all matters associated with the non-audit fees related to taxation and Committee meetings appointment, terms, remuneration and pension compliance work.
Alternative Only Audit Committee members are entitled performance of the external auditor and providers were considered but not deemed toattend a meeting.
However, the Chairman, for reviewing the scope and results of the practical in the specific circumstances.
the Group Finance Director, the Group audit and its cost effectiveness: and Noapproval was given to any non-audit Financial Controller, the Head of Business services not in accordance with the Assurance and the External Audit Engagement report to the Board on how it has discharged APBsEthical Standards for Auditors.
Partner are normally invited to attend meetings.
its responsibilities, including an assessment Others are also invited to attend certain ofwhether the financial statements are fair, Appointment, independence meetings to provide training or further insight balanced and understandable and provide andeffectiveness into specific issues and developments.
During the information necessary for shareholders The Committee considers the re-appointment the period, the Audit Committee met on three to assess the Groups performance, business of the external auditor each year, whilst occasions.
A section of at least one meeting model and strategy.
assessing its independence on an on-going during the period took place without basis.
The external auditor is required to Effective October 2014, the Committee management present.
rotate the audit partner every five years.
hastaken on responsibility, from the Risk Management Committee, for the risk KPMG was re-appointed as auditor at the Responsibilities management systems, further details of 2014 AGM.
KPMG has been our auditor The Audit Committee undertakes its which are included on pages 16 and 17. since 1993 21 years during which time the activitiesin line with an annual predetermined audit has not been to tender.
There are no programme of business based on its terms of Key objectives contractual obligations that restrict the reference as approved by the Board.
The key To provide effective governance over the Committees choice of external auditor.
responsibilities of the Committee are: appropriateness of the financial reporting The Audit Committee considers the review the financial statements ofthe Company, including but not limited effectiveness of the external audit process interim and annual reports and tothe completeness of related disclosures, onan annual basis, reporting its findings announcements relating to the financial the performance of the external auditor, the tothe board as part of its recommendation.
performance of the Company: internal audit function and the management This process is completed through completion of the Companys internal control systems monitor the financial reporting process: of a detailed questionnaire which includes and related compliance operations.
consideration of the audit partner, the approach, communication, independence, www.
com Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 43 objectivity and reporting.
This is completed required, the appropriateness of the half-year referenced both quantitative and qualitative by members of the Committee and senior and annual financial statements concentrating judgement factors across each significant members of the finance team who regularly on, amongst othermatters: account balance, assessing the impact on the interact with the external auditor.
The results user of the financial statements.
These are the quality and acceptability of of the questionnaire are reported to and also areas of higher audit risk and accordingly accounting policies and practices: discussed by the Committee.
It also assessed KPMG reported to the Committee on and the cost effectiveness and value for money the clarity of the disclosures and the Audit Committee discussed these aspect of the audit.
compliance with financial reporting judgements.
standards and relevant financial and The Committee considered the length Carrying value of inventory: the governance reporting requirements: ofKPMGs tenure and the results of the Committee reviews the nature of the detailed questionnaire when assessing their material areas in which significant costs absorbed into inventory and the continued effectiveness, independence and judgements have been applied or reasons for movements in value period re-appointment.
The Committee continues therehas been discussion with the toperiod.
The basis for and level of toconsider KPMG to be independent and external auditor: provisioning, including those areas which effective in its role as auditor.
Accordingly, are judgemental, is presented to the whether the Annual Report, taken as a the Committee has provided the Board with Committee by management.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable its recommendation to the shareholders and provides the information necessary Defined benefit accounting: the tore-appoint KPMG as external auditor for for shareholders to assess the Companys valuationof the defined benefit scheme the year ending 30 September 2015.
When performance, business model and isdependent on a number of assumptions considering the most suitable timing for strategy: and that are inherently judgemental.
The Audit afuture audit tender the Committee has Committee assesses these judgements based considered FRC guidance concerning the any correspondence from regulators on reports received from management alignment of the tender date with the inrelation to our financial reporting.
and the Groups actuarial advisors.
rotation of the audit partner, the EU Regulation To aid our review, the Committee considers and the recommendations of the Competition reports from the Group Finance Director and Internal control and internal audit and Markets Commission along with the Group Financial Controller and also reports The Audit Committee also considers the latest views as to how the UK government from the external auditor on the outcomes results of internal control reviews and reviews will implement these.
The current expectation of its half-year review and annual audit.
As a the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
of ten year mandatory rotation with transitional Committee we support KPMG in displaying There is a rolling programme of internal rules would result in a change of auditor no the necessary independence and objectivity control reviews carried out across the Group later than 30 September 2021.
The current its role requires.
In addition the Committee by the internal audit function, supported by audit partners term finishes after the reviews and considers the draft Annual other independent assurance providers.
The September 2017 year end accounts are Report and Financial Statements in advance Head of Business Assurance, as appointed by signed.
The timing of a competitive tender of final sign off.
the Committee, has responsibility for internal will continue to be assessed on an annual audit and independently reports to the basis and consider the final position The Committee discussed with management Chairman of the Audit Committee in relation ontheEU reforms adopted in the UK the key sources of estimation and critical to internal control matters.
accounting judgements outlined in note 19.
Committee receives these reviews from the The significant areas of focus considered internal audit function, reviews its findings, Financial reporting bythe Committee in relation to the 2014 annual audit plan, effectiveness, allocation of The primary role of the Committee in relation financial statements and how these have appropriate resources and risk management to financial reporting is to review with both been addressed are listed below.
In concluding activities and priorities.
TheCommittee also management and the external auditor, and that the below list represented the primary reviews the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
report to the Board where requested or areas of judgement, the Audit Committee considered a report by management which www.
