Vodafone Group Plc 72 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for executive directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary a To attract and retain the best talent.
a Salaries are usually reviewed annually and fixed for a Average salary increases for existing Executive Committee members including executive None.
Decision is influenced by: directors will not normally exceed average increases for employees in other appropriate parts of the Group.
Increases above this level may be made in specific situations.
These situations a level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities couldinclude but are not limited to internal promotions, changes to role, material changes ofindividual: to the business and exceptional company performance.
a business performance, scarcity of talent, economic climate and market conditions: a increases elsewhere within the Group: and a external comparator groups which are used for reference purposes only made up of companies ofsimilar size and complexity to Vodafone.
Pension a To remain competitive within the marketplace.
a Executive directors may choose to participate in the a The pension contribution or cash payment is equal to 30% of annual gross salary.
defined contribution pension scheme or to receive a cash of pension levels elsewhere in the Group we have decided to reduce the pension benefits level allowance inlieu of pension.
from 30% to no more than 24% from November 2015.
Benefits a To aid retention and remain competitive within a Travel related benefits.
This may include but is not limited a Benefits will be provided in line with appropriate levels indicated by local market practice in the None.
to company car or cash allowance, fuel and access country of employment.
a We expect to maintain benefits at the current level but the value of benefit may fluctuate a Private medical, death and disability insurance and annual depending on, amongst other things, personal situation, insurance premiums and other health checks.
a In the event that we ask an individual to relocate we would offer them support in line with Vodafones relocation or international assignment policies.
This may cover but is not limited to relocation, cost of living allowance, housing, home leave, education support, tax equalisation and advice.
a Other benefits are also offered in line with the benefits offered to other employees for example, all-employee share plans, mobile phone discounts, maternity paternity benefits, sick leave, paid holiday, etc.
Annual Bonus a To drive behaviour and communicate the key priorities for a Bonus levels and the appropriateness of measures and a Bonuses can range from 0200% of base salary, with 100% paidfor on-target performance.
a Performance over each financial year Global Shortthe year.
weightings are reviewed annually to ensure they continue Maximum is only paid out for exceptional performance.
is measured against stretching targets set Term Incentive to support our strategy.
at the beginning of the year.
a To motivate employees and incentivise delivery Plan GSTIP of performance over the one year operating cycle.
a Performance over the financial year is measured against a The performance measures normally stretching financial and non-financial performance targets comprise of a mix of financial and a The financial metrics are designed to both drive our set at the start of the financial year.
Financial measures growth strategies whilst also focusing on improving may include but are not limited to profit, operating efficiencies.
Measuring competitive a The annual bonus is usually paid in cash in June each year revenue and cash flow with a weighting performance with its heavy reliance on net promoter for performance over the previous financial year.
Strategic measures score NPS means providing a great customer may include but are not limited to experience remains at the heart of what we do.
competitive performance metrics such as net promoter score and market share.
Long-Term a To motivate and incentivise delivery ofsustained a Award levels and the framework for determining vesting a The basic target award level is 137.5% of base salary for the Chief Executive 110% for other a Performance is measured against Incentive Global performance over the long term.
are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support executive directors.
stretching targets set at the beginning Long-Term our strategy.
a To support and encourage greater shareholder alignment a The target award level may increase up to 237.5% of base salary for the Chief Executive Incentive Plan through a high level ofpersonal financial commitment.
a Long-term incentive base awards consist of performance or 210% for others ifthe individual commits to a co-investment in shares equal in value to their a Vesting is determined based on a matrix GLTI base shares which are granted each year.
of two measures: awards and a The use of free cash flow as the principal performance co-investment measure ensures we apply prudent cash management a Individuals must co-invest in Vodafone shares and hold a Minimum vesting is 0% of target award level, threshold vesting is 50% and maximum vesting a adjusted free cash flow as our awards further and rigorous capital discipline to our investment them in trust for at least three years in order to receive the is250% of the target award level.
operational performance measure: details can be decisions, whilst the use of TSR along with a performance full target award.
and a Maximum long-term incentive face value at award of 594% of base salary for the Chief Executive found in the period of not less than three years means that we are a All awards vest not less than three years after the award 237.5% x 250% and 525% for others.
a relative TSR against a peer group notes that follow focused on the long-term interests of our shareholders.
based on Group operational and external performance.
of companies as our external this table a The awards that vest accrue cash dividend equivalents over the three year vesting period.
a Dividend equivalents are paid in cash after the a Awards vest to the extent performance conditions are satisfied.
There is a mandatory holding vestingdate.
period where 50% of the post-tax shares are released after vesting, a further 25% after the first anniversary of vesting, and the remaining 25% will bereleased after the second anniversary.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 72 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 73 Remuneration policy continued The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for executive directors.
Long-Term a To motivate and incentivise delivery ofsustained a The basic target award level is 137.5% of base salary for the Chief Executive 110% for other a Performance is measured against a Award levels and the framework for determining vesting Incentive Global performance over the long term.
stretching targets set at the beginning are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support Long-Term of the performance period.
of two measures: awards and a The use of free cash flow as the principal performance co-investment a Minimum vesting is 0% of target award level, threshold vesting is 50% and maximum vesting a adjusted free cash flow as our measure ensures we apply prudent cash management a Individuals must co-invest in Vodafone shares and hold awards further is250% of the target award level.
operational performance measure: and rigorous capital discipline to our investment them in trust for at least three years in order to receive the details can be and decisions, whilst the use of TSR along with a performance full target award.
a Maximum long-term incentive face value at award of 594% of base salary for the Chief Executive found in the period of not less than three years means that we are a All awards vest not less than three years after the award 237.5% x 250% and 525% for others.
