Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 70 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 71 Remuneration policy In this forward-looking section we describe our remuneration policy for the Board.
This includes our considerations when determining policy, a description of the elements of the reward package and an indication of the potential future value of this package for each of the executive directors.
In addition we describe our policy applied to the Chairman and non-executive directors.
We will be seeking shareholder approval for our remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM and we intend to implement at that point.
We do not envisage making any changes to our policy over the next three years, however, we will review it each year to ensure that it continues to support our Company strategy.
If we feel it is necessary to make a change to our policy within the next three years, we will seek shareholder approval.
Considerations when determining remuneration policy Our remuneration principles which are outlined on page 69 are the context for our policy.
Our principal consideration when determining remuneration policy is to ensure that it supports our Company strategy and business objectives.
The views of our shareholders are also taken into account when determining executive pay.
In advance of asking for approval for the remuneration policy we have consulted with our major shareholders.
We invited our top 20 shareholders to comment on remuneration at Vodafone and several meetings between shareholders and the Remuneration Committee Chairman took place.
The main topics of consultation were as follows: a new share plan rules for which we will seek shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM: a changes to executive remuneration arrangements reduction of maximum long-term incentive vesting levels and pension provision : and a impact of Project Spring on Free Cash Flow performance under the global long-term incentive plan GLTI.
We have not consulted with employees on the executive remuneration policy nor is any fixed remuneration comparison measurement used.
However, when determining the policy for executive directors, we have been mindful of the pay and employment conditions of employees in Vodafone Group as a whole, with particular reference to the market in which the executive is based.
Further information on our remuneration policy for other employees is given on page 74.
Performance measures and targets Our Company strategy and business objectives are the primary consideration when we are selecting performance measures for our incentive plans.
The targets within our incentive plans that are related to internal financial measures such as revenue, profit and cash flow are typically determined based on our budgets.
Targets for strategic and external measures such as competitive performance and Total Shareholder Return TSR are set based on Company objectives and in light of the competitive marketplace.
The threshold and maximum levels of performance are set to reflect minimum acceptable levels at threshold and very stretching but achievable levels at maximum.
As in previous remuneration reports we will disclose the details of our performance targets for our short and long-term incentive plans.
However, our annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore we will only disclose our targets in the remuneration report following the completion of the financial year.
We will disclose the targets for each long-term award in the remuneration report for the financial year preceding thestart of the performance period.
At the end of each performance period we review performance against the targets, using judgement to account for items such as but not limited to mergers, acquisitions, disposals, foreign exchange rate movements, changes in accounting treatment, material one-off tax settlements etc.
The application of judgement is important to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee reviews the incentive plan results before any payments are made to executives or any shares vest and has full discretion to adjust the final payment or vesting downwards if they believe circumstances warrant it.
In particular, the Committee may use discretion to clawback any unvested share award or vested but unexercised options as it sees appropriate, in which case the award may lapse wholly or in part, may vest to a lesser extent than it would otherwise have vested or vesting may be delayed.
