Vodafone Group Plc 54 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance What is our governance framework?
Responsibility for good governance lies with your Board.
There is a strong and effective governance system in place throughout the Group.
Chairman Gerard Kleisterlee Key objectives: a leadership, operation and governance of the Board a setting the agenda for the Board More detail: Page 55 The Board of Vodafone Group Plc 14 directors: three executive directors, the Chairman and ten independent non-executive directors including the Senior Independent Director.
Key objectives: a responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business More detail: See below a setting the Groups strategy Nominations and Governance Audit and Remuneration Chief Executive Committee Risk Committee Committee Vittorio Colao Three independent Four independent Four independent non-executive directors plus non-executive directors.
Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman Chairman: Nick Land Chairman: Luc Vandevelde Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objective: Key objectives: a to ensure the Board comprises a to provide effective governance a to assess and make a management of the business individuals with the necessary skills, over the Groups financial results recommendations a implementation of strategy knowledge and experience a to review the activity and to the Board on the policy and policy a to have oversight of all matters performance of the internal audit on executive remuneration relating to corporate governance function and external auditors a management of the Groups system of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities More detail: More detail: More detail: More detail: Pages 58 and 59 Pages 60 to 64 Page 65 Page 55 Executive Committee 11 members made up of the executive directors, Group function heads and the regional chief executives.
Chairman: Vittorio Colao Key objective: a to focus on strategy, financial structure and planning, financial and competitive performance, succession planning, organisational development and Group-wide policies More detail: Page 65 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision and How does the Board operate?
these include: The role of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business a Group strategy and long-term plans: and has the powers and duties set out in the relevant laws of England a major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: and Wales and our articles of association.
The Board: a annual budget and operating plan: a is responsible for setting the Group strategy and for the management, direction and performance of our businesses: a Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: a is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct a annual and half-year financial results and shareholder of the business: communications: and a is responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having a system of internal control and risk management.
regard for the interests of all stakeholders: and The schedule is reviewed annually.
It was last reviewed in March a is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our 2014 when it was decided to add a requirement for Board approval system of corporate governance.
for advisors fees in excess of 10 million on corporate acquisitions and disposals.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees, details of which are given on pages 58 to 65.
