Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 76 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 77 Annual report on remuneration Remuneration Committee In this section we give details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee and activities undertaken over the 2014 financial year.
The Committee is comprised to exercise independent judgement and consists only of the following independent non-executive directors: Chairman: Luc Vandevelde Committee members: Renee James: Samuel Jonah: Philip Yea The Committee regularly consults with Vittorio Colao, the Chief Executive, and Ronald Schellekens, the Group HR Director, on various matters relating to the appropriateness of awards for executive directors and senior executives, though they are not present when their own compensation is discussed.
Inaddition, Adrian Jackson, the Group Reward and Policy Director, provides a perspective on information provided to the Committee, and requests information and analyses from external advisors as required.
Rosemary Martin, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, advises the Committee on corporate governance guidelines and acts as secretary to the Committee.
External advisors The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisors where appropriate.
The two appointed advisors were selected through a thorough process led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and were appointed by the Committee.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has direct access to the advisors as and when required, and the Committee determines the protocols by which the advisors interact with management in support of the Committee.
The advice and recommendations of the external advisors are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Committee member.
Advisors attend Committee meetings occasionally, as and when required by the Committee.
Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP PwC and Towers Watson are both members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
This is based upon principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality by executive remuneration consultants.
PwC and Towers Watson have confirmed that they adhered to that Code of Conduct throughout the year for all remuneration services provided to Vodafone and therefore the Committee are satisfied that they are independent and objective.
The Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct is available at .
Fees for services provided to the 1 Advisor Appointed by Services provided to the Committee Committee 000 Other services provided to the Company Pricewaterhouse Remuneration Advice on market practice: Governance: 63 International mobility: Finance: Coopers LLP PwC Committee in 2007 Performance analysis: Plan design Technology: Tax: Operations: Compliance Towers Watson Remuneration Advice on market practice: Governance: Provide 25 Pension and benefit administration: Committee in 2007 market data on executive and non-executive Reward consultancy reward: Reward consultancy: Performance analysis Note: 1 Fees are determined on a time spent basis PwC have been appointed as our auditors from April 2014 and therefore no longer advise the Remuneration Committee.
Towers Watson continue to act as independent remuneration advisors.
Philip Yea sat on an advisory board for PwC until 14th January 2014.
In light of PwCs role as advisor to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters up until April 2014, the Remuneration Committee considered his position and determined that there was no conflict or potential conflict arising.
2013 AGM The 2013 remuneration report received a 96.36% vote in favour of a total of 31,950,649,494 votes cast 3.64% votes against and 436,513,724 votes were withheld.
Meetings The Remuneration Committee had six formal meetings during the year.
Outside these meetings there are frequent discussions usually by conference call.
The principal agenda items at the formal meetings were as follows: Meeting Agenda items May 2013 a 2013 annual bonus achievement and 2014 targets and ranges.
a 2011 long-term incentive award vesting and 2014 targets and ranges.
a Review of the effectiveness of the Committee.
a Large local market CEO remuneration.
September 2013 a Impact of the Verizon Wireless transaction on reward arrangements.
a Impact of the Verizon transaction and Project a 2014 long-term incentive awards, share ownership levels, accounting Spring on incentives.
a Reduction of maximum leverage on future long-term incentive a New remuneration reporting regulations.
a Remuneration package for Nick Read and a Reduction of pension levels from November 2015 from 30% to 24% departure arrangements for Andy Halford.
March 2014 a 2015 reward packages for the Executive Committee and a 2014 directors remuneration report.
a Committees effectiveness and terms of reference.
