Vodafone Group Plc 60 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued The Committee and its work Audit and Risk Committee The membership of the Committee has been selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise Our work continued to focus on the appropriateness necessary to meet its responsibilities.
Given my recent and relevant of the Groups financial reporting, the rigour of the external financial experience, the Board has designated me as its financial expert and internal audit processes, the Groups on the Committee for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and management of risk and its system of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
There were no changes to the internal controls.
We also conducted a membership of the Committee during the year, all of whom are nontender for the Groups statutory audit which executive directors of the Company.
resulted in the proposal to shareholders to confirm the appointment of The Committee meets at least four times during the year as part of its  LLP standard processes, supplemented by additional meetings as necessary.
as Group auditors for the 2015 The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, is also invited to each meeting financial year.
together with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Financial Reporting Director and the Membership: Chairman and financial expert Group Audit Director.
The work of the Committee is structured around Nick Land its responsibilities set out above and its detailed terms of reference Independent non-executive director which are available at vodafone.
In addition to these activities the Committee conducts a rolling programme of in-depth review sessions where the Groups senior management provide Anthony Watson Alan Jebson briefings on key issues and developments particularly in relation Independent Independent non-executive director to aspects of risk management.
A summary of the reviews undertaken non-executive director during the year are set out within Risk management below.
The Committee also regularly meets separately with Deloitte LLP, Anne Lauvergeon the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Audit Director without others Independent non-executive director being present.
Key objective: Meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to a Board the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness meeting to maximise the efficiency of interaction with the Board and of the Groups financial reporting including the adequacy of related I report to the Board, as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity disclosures, the performance of both the internal audit function and of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the the external auditor and oversight over the Groups systems of internal conduct of its work.
control, business risks and related compliance activities.
Following the external review of the Committees effectiveness Responsibilities: in the previous year, I, together with the Committees secretary, a reviewing our financial results announcements and financial conducted an internal review of effectiveness involving the members statements and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and of the Committee, Company management and the external auditor.
listing requirements: This confirmed the Committee remained effective at meeting its objectives.
a reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting policies and practices including those identified as critical and requiring further disclosure: a advising the Board on whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: a overseeing the relationship with the external auditor: a reviewing the scope, resources, results and effectiveness of the activity of the Group internal audit department: a monitoring our compliance efforts in respect of section 404 and section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act: a considering and making recommendations to the Board on the nature and extent of the significant risks the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives: a overseeing the Groups compliance processes: and a performing in-depth reviews of specific areas of financial reporting, risk and internal controls.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 60 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 61 Main activities of the Committee during the year We hold private meetings with the external auditor at each Committee I have set out below a summary of the major activities of the Committee meeting to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and in the year categorised between: financial reporting and the related feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management statutory audit: risk management: and the assessment of internal being present.
Matters typically discussed include the external controls.
In addition, the Committee conducted a tender for the auditors assessment of business risks and management activity statutory audit through the process summarised on page 63. thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope Financial reporting and the related statutory audit placed on them by management, independence of their audit and The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the how they have exercised professional scepticism.
I also meet with the Groups financial reporting is to review with both management and external lead audit partner outside the formal Committee process the external auditor the appropriateness of the half-year and annual throughout the year.
financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: External audit process effectiveness a the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: We use an audit quality framework to assess the effectiveness a the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial of the external audit process.
This involves detailed questioning reporting standards and relevant financial and governance of management at an operating company and Group level and reporting requirements: also the members of the Committee.
We also considered the firmwide audit quality inspection report issued by the FRC in May 2013 a any correspondence from regulators in relation to our and Deloittes response to the findings.
The observations from this financial reporting: assessment for the 2014 financial year were presented and discussed a material areas in which significant judgements have been applied at the May 2014 meeting.
Management concluded that there had or there has been discussion with the external auditor: and been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be satisfactory.
a whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced The Committee concurred with this view.
The Committee has identified and understandable and provides the information necessary for the 2015 financial year as a potential period of increased risk given the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business transition of the statutory auditor and will focus closely on this matter model and strategy.
As part of the Committees assessment of the throughout the year.
annual report, it draws on the work of the Groups disclosure committee and also has discussions with senior management.
Risk management The Committees overall assessment forms the basis of the advice The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which significant given to the Board to assist them in making the statement required business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Committee.
by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our work here was driven primarily by the Groups assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 196 to 200.
The Committee is committed to the continuous improvement in the We receive reports from the Group Audit Director on the Groups risk effectiveness and clarity of the Groups corporate reporting and has evaluation process and review changes to significant risks identified encouraged management to support and adopt initiatives by regulatory at both operating entity and Group levels.
bodies which would enhance our reporting.
In addition, the Committee also conducts a rolling programme External audit of in-depth reviews into specific financial, operational and regulatory At the start of the audit cycle for the new financial year we received areas of the business.
During the 2014 financial year, in-depth reviews from Deloitte LLP a detailed audit plan identifying their audit scope, were undertaken in the areas of: planning materiality and their assessment of key risks, which were a corporate treasury management: discussed and agreed with the Committee.
Planning materiality was lower this year, primarily driven by the disposal of our interest in Verizon a legal intercept and related data management: Wireless.
The audit risk identification process is considered a key factor a competition law and anti-bribery law compliance: in the overall effectiveness of the external audit process.
For the 2014 financial year, the key risks identified were a combination of those a the management of risk within the supply chain: identified in the 2013 financial year, being those in relation to goodwill a information security: impairment, provisioning for current tax liabilities and deferred tax asset recognition, and revenue recognition as these areas continue to require a risk management within the IT platform standardisation programme inherent management judgement, and three new specific risks in Vodafone UK: and identified in relation to i the accounting for the disposal of our interest a the control environment in Vodafone Ghana.
in Verizon Wireless and the related acquisition of the remaining 23% interest in Vodafone Italy, ii the accounting for our acquisition of Kabel In addition, the Committee received an update on Group legal Deutschland and iii provisioning for legal and regulatory claims.
The latter risk factor was added specifically in response to the reduction in audit materiality.
These reviews are critical to the role of the Committee, as they allow us to meet key business leaders responsible for these areas and provide At each meeting of the Committee, these risks are reviewed and independent challenge to their activities.
both managements primary areas of judgement and the external auditors key areas of audit focus, are challenged.
As a Committee, we support the professional scepticism, particularly in the areas of key judgement and accounting disclosure, displayed by Deloitte LLP.
Vodafone Group Plc 62 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Significant issues The Committee discussed with management the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty outlined in note 1 Basis of preparation.
The significant areas of focus considered by the Committee in relation to the 2014 accounts, and how these were addressed, are outlined below: Matter considered Action Goodwill impairment testing This continued to represent a significant area of focus for the The Committee received detailed reporting from management Committee given the materiality of the Groups goodwill balances and challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions made.
23.3 billion at 31 March 2014 and the inherent subjectivity Areas of focus were the achievability of the business plans, assumptions in impairment testing.
The judgements in relation to goodwill in relation to terminal growth in the businesses at the end of the impairment continue to relate primarily to the assumptions underlying plan period, particularly in Europe where adverse trends in financial the calculation of the value in use of the business, being the performance have been experienced, and discount rates, which have achievability of the long-term business plan and the macroeconomic been subject to volatility given the current macroeconomic conditions.
and related modelling assumptions underlying the valuation process.
This remains a prime area of audit focus and Deloitte LLP provided detailed reporting on these matters to the Committee including sensitivity testing.
Taxation The Group is subject to a range of tax claims and related legal actions The Group Tax Director presented managements view of both the across a number of jurisdictions where it operates.
The most material provisioning and disclosure of tax contingencies and deferred tax asset claim is from the Indian tax authorities in relation to our acquisition recognition at the May 2014 meeting of the Committee.
In respect of Vodafone India Limited from Hutchison Telecommunications of tax contingencies, including the India case noted opposite, this International Limited group in 2007, for the amount of INR142billion involved a discussion of the extent and strength of professional advice 1.4 billion including interest.
Further details of this claim are received from external legal and advisory firms.
In relation to the described in note 30 Contingent liabilities.
recognition of the deferred tax assets, managements plans and expectations for future taxable profits were critically reviewed.
Further, the Group has extensive accumulated tax losses as outlined in note 6 Taxation, and a key management judgement is whether This is also an area of higher audit risk and accordingly, the Committee a deferred tax asset should be recognised in respect of these losses.
receives detailed oral and written reporting from Deloitte LLP As at 31 March 2014 the Group had recognised a 21.2 billion deferred on these matters.
tax asset in respect of these tax losses.
Liability provisioning The Group is subject to a range of claims and legal actions from The Committee received a presentation from the a number of sources including competitors, regulators, customers, Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary in May 2014 suppliers, and on occasion fellow shareholders in Group subsidiaries.
on managements assessment of the most material claims, including The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities is an issue relevant legal advice received and the level of provision held against where management and legal judgements are important and each.
Deloitte LLP also reviews these matters, forming an independent accordingly an area of Committee focus.
The most material claim view that is discussed with the Committee.
is from Telecom Egypt in relation to allegations of breach of nondiscrimination provisions within an interconnect agreement.
Details of the claim are outlined in note 30 Contingent liabilities.
Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition, the recognition of revenue Deloitte LLP outlined to the Committee their approach to the audit on a gross or net basis, the treatment of discounts, incentives and of revenue, as part of their presentation of the detailed audit plan.
commissions and the accounting for multi-element arrangements are The Committee also considered any observations made by the complex areas of accounting.
auditors as part of their reporting to the Committee.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group made a number of highly material business acquisitions and Management outlined the key accounting and disclosure impacts disposals during the year including the disposal of Verizon Wireless, in relation to these transactions.
The Committee requested and and the acquisition of interests in Kabel Deutschland and Vodafone received detailed reporting from Deloitte LLP on their assessment Italy.
This gave rise to a number of complex accounting and disclosure of the accounting and disclosures made by management in both the requirements in the financial statements.
half-year and annual financial statements.
IT controls in relation to privileged user access The Groups IT infrastructure platform hosts a number of financial Management outlined tested alternative controls in place reporting related applications.
An issue was identified in respect which provided assurance over the completeness and accuracy of privileged user access controls within part of the IT infrastructure of the information derived from the impacted financial reporting platform which could have had an adverse impact on certain of the related applications.
Groups controls and financial systems.
Deloitte LLP extended their controls and substantive testing to obtain assurance over both the compensating controls and the completeness and accuracy of the management information derived from these applications.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 62 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 63 Assessment of internal control Fraud and whistle-blowing We reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control We review the channels in place to enable employees to raise environment.
Our work here was driven primarily by the Group Audit concerns about possible irregularities in financial reporting or other Directors reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant issues such as breaches of the Code of Conduct and for those matters identified frauds and any identified fraud that involved management to be investigated.
Further, we receive summaries of investigations or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
I meet privately into known or suspected fraudulent activities by both third parties with the Groups Audit and Compliance Directors outside the formal and employees.
Oversight of the Groups compliance activities in relation to section 404of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also falls within the Committees remit.
Internal audit Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group Internal Audit department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
Reports from the Group Audit Director usually include updates on audit activities, progress of the Group audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas, and resource requirements of the Internal Audit department.
I play a major role in setting the Group Audit Directors annual objectives.
Audit tender process In November 2013, having considered the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the notes on best practice issued by the Financial Reporting Council, the Audit and Risk Committee decided to put the audit for the 2015 financial year out to tender.
The tender process and the Committees involvement in the process are outlined below.
Audit and Risk Committee involvement: Monitoring the auditor transition plan Board decision Outreach to shareholders post the decision Recommendation to the Board by the Committee Recommendation to the Board Audit approach presentation and a question Evaluation of the firms and answer session Attendance at the oral presentation Orals Written proposal outlining the audit team, Written geographic footprint alignment, audit Review of the written proposals proposal approach, transition approach challenges, independence considerations and fee proposal Meeting with the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Chairman attended the Working with Working with Vodafone Officer Designate and selected Vodafone senior Vodafone meetings meeting management to discuss how the firms would structure their audit at an operational level and work with our management team 14 meetings with senior management Information gathering meetings Expectation setting with the tender participants to gatherinformation and insight into the with Vodafone senior management waythe Group operates Outreach to shareholders post Contained documentation to allow the firms the announcement Data room access to gain a better understanding of how the Approval of the tender participants, process, Group is structured and operates timetable and assessment criteria Vodafone Group Plc 64 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Non-audit services Governance of the External Audit relationship As a further measure to protect the objectivity and independence of the The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor external auditor, the Committee has a policy governing the engagement and also assesses their independence on an ongoing basis.
The external of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
This precludes auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group Deloitte LLP from providing certain services such as valuation work audit every five years and the year ended 31 March 2014 will be the or the provision of accounting services and also sets a presumption that current lead audit partners fifth year.
Accordingly, and in compliance Deloitte should only be engaged for non-audit services where there with the provisions outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code and is no legal or practical alternative supplier.
No material changes have the notes on best practice issued by the Financial Reporting Council been made to this policy during the financial year.
in July 2013, the Committee decided to put the audit for the 2015 financial year out to tender in November 2013.
For certain specific permitted services, the Committee has pre-approved that Deloitte LLP can be engaged by management, The tender process and the Committees involvement in that process subject to the policies set out above, and subject to specified fee limits is outlined in the diagram on page 63.
All of the big 4 audit firms for individual engagements and fee limits, for each type of specific were invited to participate in the tender.
For all other services or those permitted services that exceed at a preliminary stage noting the longevity of their appointment, having the specified fee limits, I, as Chairman, or in my absence another been the Groups auditors since its stock market listing in 1988. member, can pre-approve permitted services.
Having concluded the process in February 2014, the Committee In addition to the statutory audit fee, Deloitte LLP and related member recommended to the Board that  firms charged the Group 4 million 2013: 1 million for audit-related LLP be appointed as the Groups statutory auditor for the 2015 and other assurance services.
These fees were materially higher than financial year.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment in prior years as Deloitte acted as the Reporting Accountant in relation of  LLP as our auditor will be put to the to a number of shareholder and regulatory filings in connection with the shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations disposal of our interest in Verizon Wireless and the related acquisition restricting the Committees choice of external auditor and we do not of the remaining 23% interest in Vodafone Italy.
Further details of the indemnify our external auditor.
fees paid, for both audit and non-audit services, can be found in note 3 The Committee will continue to review the auditor appointment and to the consolidated financial statements.
the need to tender the audit, ensuring the Groups compliance with the For a number of years,  LLP has provided UK Corporate Governance Code and any reforms of the audit market the Group with a wide range of consulting and assurance services.
by the UK Competition Commission and the European Union.
Following the decision to appoint them as auditors for the 2015 In its assessment of the independence of the auditor and in accordance financial year, it was agreed by the Committee that any existing with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards standard permitted non-audit service engagements which were not in line on independence, the Committee receives details of any relationships with the Groups non-audit services policy should cease by 30 June between the Company and Deloitte LLP that may have a bearing 2014.
This decision was made to allow a timely transition of these on their independence and receives confirmation that they are services and minimise the impact on the business.
From 1 April 2014, independent of the Company within the meaning of the securities laws  LLP will only be engaged for non-audit administered by the US Securities & Exchange Commission SEC.
services which are in line with the Groups non-audit services policy.
During the year, Deloitte LLP and related member firms charged the Group 9 million 2013: 8 million, 2012: 7 million for statutory audit services.
The Committee approved these fees following review of audit scope changes for the 2014 financial year, including the Nick Land On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee impact of business acquisitions and disposals which were primarily 20 May 2014 in relation to Kabel Deutschland, the disposal of Verizon Wireless and the acquisition of the remaining 23% interest in Vodafone Italy.
The Committee also received assurance from Deloitte LLP that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
