Strategy Additional Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 69 Directors remuneration Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Luc Vandevelde Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear fellow shareholder I am pleased to present you with Vodafones remuneration report for 2014.
This year will be the first time we will ask shareholders to vote on our remuneration policy in addition to the rest of the remuneration report.
With the new remuneration disclosure regulations in mind we have changed the structure of our report to present first our policy and then detail its implementation.
Apart from some changes which I outline below, our policy and practice remain essentially unchanged.
As always we have tried to ensure that the remuneration policy and practice atVodafone drive behaviours that are in the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of the considerable interest that exists in executive compensation and we are very conscious of the many and varied concerns.
Our remuneration principles Our remuneration principles, which our detailed policy supports, are as follows: a we offer competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits to attract and retain the best people: a our policy and practices aim to drive behaviours that support our Company strategy and business objectives: a our pay for performance approach means that our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards if and when they are justified by performance: and a our approach to share ownership is designed to help maintain commitment over the long-term, and to ensure that the interests of our senior management team are aligned with those of shareholders.
Pay for performance Pay for performance continues to be an important principle for Vodafone when setting remuneration policy.
A high proportion of total reward is awarded through short-term and long-term performance related remuneration.
At target around 70% of the package is delivered in the form of variable pay, which rises to around 85% if maximum payout is achieved.
We ensure our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards if and when they are justified by performance.
For the Remuneration Committee this means two things: a ensuring the targets we set for incentive plans are suitably challenging as can be seen by the historic levels of achievement for both shortand long-term incentive plans shown on page 82 : and a if needed, exercising discretion.
The Committee reviews all incentive plans before any payments are made to executives and has full discretion to adjust payments downwards if it believes circumstances warrant it.
Company performance and the link to incentives During the 2014 year our emerging markets businesses have delivered strong organic revenue growth along with good cash flow and EBITDA performance.
However, this has been offset by significant ongoing competitive, regulatory and macroeconomic pressures in our European operations where revenue has declined.
Taken in the round this led to slightly below target performance which is reflected in our annual bonus payout of 88.5% of target.
More details can be found on page 78.
Over the last three years our adjusted free cash flow performance, although strong in our emerging markets, has been below our target levels in Europe for similar reasons to those described above.
However, we have taken significant strategic steps which have led to strong growth in the share price and Total Shareholder Return TSR which, when combined with adjusted free cash flow, result in a payout for the executive directors long-term incentive awards of 37.2% of maximum.
More details can be found on page 79.
Strategic initiatives include: a the sale of our 45% stake in Verizon Wireless: a the record US$85 billion return to shareholders: a the announcement of Project Spring the acceleration of our capital investment to strengthen further our network and customer experience: a the acquisition of a leading cable operator in Germany as well as fixed line businesses such as CWW and TelstraClear: a launching Vodafone Red which is now available in 20 markets: and a developing our M-Pesa footprint.
Vodafone Group Plc 70 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration continued Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman continued Key decisions on executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee considers every decision around executive director remuneration very carefully.
Some of the major decisions made this year were as follows: a Nick Read was promoted to Chief Financial Officer during the year and we determined his new remuneration package.
Our decision to give Nick a base salary of 675,000 was made in the context of the existing executive directors remuneration levels and reviewed against the external market: a the Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the Verizon Wireless transaction and Project Spring on executive remuneration and decided to remove the impact of Project Spring on pre-existing long-term incentive awards to ensure an appropriate comparison to the original targets that were set.
Please see page 84 for more details: a we decided to reduce the maximum vesting level of our long-term incentive opportunity for our Executive Committee.
For the 2015 long-term incentive awards, the maximum vesting level will reduce from three times to two and a half times the target vesting level.
We have also introduced a mandatory holding period where 50% of the post-tax shares are released after vesting, a further 25% after the first anniversary of vesting, and the remaining 25% will bereleased after the second anniversary: a following a review of the pension levels in the context of pension provision for our broader employee population, from November 2015 pension levels for our Executive Committee will reduce from 30% of salary to 24% of salary.
This brings our Executive Committee pension level in line with our UK senior management: and a the Remuneration Committee took account of business performance, salary increases for other UK employees and external market information when deciding to increase the annual base salaries of the Chief Executive Vittorio Colao and the Chief Technology Officer Stephen Pusey by 3.6% and 4.3% respectively from 1 July 2014.
This is the first salary increase that either individual has received for three years.
Assessment of risk One of the activities of the Remuneration Committee is to continually be aware and mindful of any potential risk associated with our reward programmes.
Vodafone seeks to provide a structure of rewards that encourages acceptable risk taking and high performance through optimal pay mix, performance metrics and calibration, and timing.
With that said, itisprudent practice to ensure that our reward programmes achieve this and do not encourage excessive or inappropriate risk taking.
The Committee has considered therisk involved in the incentive schemes and is satisfied that the design elements and governance procedures mitigate the principal risks.
Share ownership For many years Vodafone has had demanding share ownership goals for our executive directors.
These goals, and our achievement against the goals, are set out on page 80.
We are delighted that, collectively, our Executive Committee own shares with a value of over 50 million.
We are proud that the high level of shareholding by our Executive Committee has been maintained despite the Verizon Wireless transaction and the associated share consolidation.
After the transaction our Executive Committee members individually elected to reinvest the vast majority of their post-tax proceeds from the transaction back into Vodafone shares.
Owning shares is part of our culture and each year we expect the number of shares owned by our Executive Committee members to grow.
This level of ownership bymanagement clearly shows their alignment with shareholders but also indicates their belief in the long-term value creation opportunities of ourshares.
Consultation with shareholders The Remuneration Committee continues to have dialogue with our shareholders.
The views of all shareholders are taken seriously, and letters andemails are replied to promptly.
In addition, during the year we invited our largest shareholders to meet with me in person and the resulting meetings were very helpful for us to better understand our shareholders viewpoint.
We were delighted that last year theremuneration report received a 96.36% vote in favour.
This compares with 96.44% support in the prior year.
We sincerely hope to receive your continued support at the AGM on 29 July 2014.
Luc Vandevelde Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 May 2014 Contents of the remuneration report Remuneration policy Page 71 Annual report on remuneration Page 77 The remuneration policy table Page 72 Remuneration Committee Page 77 Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration Page 76 2014 remuneration Page 78 2015 remuneration Page 84 Further remuneration information Page 85
