Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 56 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 57 What is the performance evaluation process?
Information and professional development Keeping up-to-date with key business developments is essential for the a This year the Chairman met with each director and with executives directors to maintain and enhance their effectiveness.
This is achieved and advisors who interact with the Board.
Interviewees were as follows: asked to consider and comment on the performance of the Board as a whole.
a from time to time the Board receives presentations from executives in our business on matters of significance.
This year there were a The directors were also asked for their views on, amongst other presentations on our Enterprise business, retail distribution, things: Company strategy, key challenges for the business, the mix new products and the regional chief executives delivered of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity on the presentations on their regions businesses, the Chief Commercial Board including gender, effectiveness of the Boards engagement Officer and Chief Brand Director presented on brand status and with shareholders and how well the Board operates.
evolution and the Group HR Director delivered a presentation a The Chairman reviewed the directors contributions and the on planned actions for improving talent, capability and effectiveness Senior Independent Director led the review of the performance within the Company: of the Chairman.
a financial plans, including budgets and forecasts, are regularly a Each Board committee undertook a detailed self-assessment discussed at Board meetings: questionnaire.
a the directors have the opportunity to learn the views of major investors at planned events throughout the year see How Output of the performance evaluation do we engage with our shareholders?
on page 66 : a The Chairman of each Board committee gave feedback on the evaluation of their committee to the Board at its March meeting.
a our directors periodically visit different parts of the Group.
In September 2013 the Board met with senior management a The Chairman prepared a report on the performance evaluation in the Netherlands and in March 2014 the Board met with senior which was distributed to the directors, reviewed by the Nominations management in Portugal: and Governance Committee, and discussed with the Board at the March Board meeting.
a the non-executive directors are provided with briefings and information to assist them in performing their duties: and a This years findings were that the Board was reasonably well balanced.
Diversity had improved and it should continue on that a the directors are regularly updated on the Groups businesses and the path.
The process for appointing directors needed to be speeded regulatory and industry specific environments in which we operate.
Board arrangements and information flows were generally Updates are by way of written briefings and meetings with senior satisfactory, but more focus could be given on market information executives and, where appropriate, external sources.
and the changing regulatory and competitive environment.
Some further refinement of the presentation of performance metrics As part of their annual performance evaluation, directors are given the was agreed.
The Board was comfortable with the strong value system opportunity to discuss training and development needs.
Directors are and control framework in the Company.
Directors observed that expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs executive succession planning had improved.
Overall, the directors and to take steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about considered the right balance is struck between operational, strategic the Company and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board and governance matters and directors were positive about the open is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and atmosphere around the boardroom table allowing for a robust and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed constructive dialogue.
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the directors feels it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial advice at the Companys expense.
There is an agreed The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and procedure to enable them to do so which is managed by the Company development in the financial year ahead.
No such independent advice was sought in the 2014 Board induction financial year.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that each director receives an induction on joining the Board and receives the training he or she Re-election of directors requires.
The Company Secretary organises the induction.
All the directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 29 July 2014 with the exception of Valerie Gooding, Dame Clara Director induction Furse, Nick Read and Sir Crispin Davis who will seek election for the On appointment, directors receive a personalised induction programme first time in accordance with our articles of association and Anne covering amongst other things: Lauvergeon, Alan Jebson and Anthony Watson who will resign from a the business of the Group: the Board at the AGM.
The Nominations and Governance Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the directors a their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors: offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in July 2014 continue a briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and to be effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
a opportunities to visit business operations.
Indemnification of directors In accordance with our articles of association and to the extent The induction programme is tailored to each new director, depending permitted by the laws of England and Wales, directors are granted on his or her experience and background, and reviewed by the an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred Nominations and Governance Committee.
as a result of their office.
In addition, we maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
