Vodafone Group Plc 58 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Board committees Nominations and The Board has a Nominations and Governance Committee, an Audit and Risk Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
Further details Governance Committee of these committees can be found in their reports on pages 58 to 65.
The Nominations and Governance The terms of reference of each of these committees can be found Committee continues its work of ensuring on our website at vodafone.
the Board composition is right and that The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable our governance is effective.
them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary or her delegate acts as secretary to the committees.
The minutes of committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
The calendar for meetings of the Board and its committees is shown below.
Membership: Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Chairman 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 Gerard Kleisterlee Board Chairman of the Board Not independent scheduled meetings Nominations and Philip Yea Governance Committee Luc Vandevelde Independent Senior Audit and Risk Committee non-executive director Independent Director Remuneration Committee Anthony Watson Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another Independent non-executive director engagement are provided with the briefing materials and can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Key objective: In addition to scheduled Board meetings, there may be a number to make sure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, of other meetings to deal with specific matters.
Each scheduled knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging Board meeting is preceded by a meeting of the Chairman and nonits responsibilities and to have oversight of all matters relating executive directors.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its Responsibilities: committees in the 2014 financial year a leads the process for identifying and making recommendations Nominations and to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as directors, Governance Audit and Risk Remuneration giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership Director Board Committee Committee Committee needs of the Group: Chairman 1 Gerard Kleisterlee 7 7 3 3 a makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Senior Independent Director Boards committees: 2 Luc Vandevelde 7 7 3 3 5 5 a regularly reviews and makes recommendations in relation Chief Executive to the structure, size and composition of the Board including the Vittorio Colao 7 7 diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the Executive directors independence of the non-executive directors: Andy Halford 7 7 a oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees Stephen Pusey 7 7 and individual directors see pages 56 and 57 : Non-executive directors 3 a reviews the tenure of each of the non-executive directors: and Valerie Gooding 1 1 Renee James 7 7 4 5 a is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate Alan Jebson 7 7 4 4 governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Samuel Jonah 7 7 4 5 Omid Kordestani 7 7 4 Nick Land 7 7 4 4 Anne Lauvergeon 7 7 4 4 Anthony Watson 7 7 3 3 4 4 Philip Yea 7 7 3 3 5 5 Notes: 1 Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
2 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
3 Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 February 2014.
4 Chairman and Financial Expert of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 58 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 59 Committee meetings The Board acknowledges that diversity extends beyond the No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be present boardroom and supports management in their efforts to build a diverse at its meetings: however, other non-executive directors, the Chief organisation.
It endorses the Companys policy to attract and develop Executive and external advisors may be invited to attend.
In the event a highly qualified and diverse workforce: to ensure that all selection of matters arising concerning my membership of the Board, I would decisions are based on merit and that all recruitment activities are fair absent myself from the meeting as required and the Boards Senior and non-discriminatory.
The boardroom diversity policy was introduced Independent Director would take the chair.
in February 2012 and reviewed by the Committee in March 2013 and March 2014.
It acknowledges the importance of diversity, including Main activities of the Committee during the year gender, to the effective functioning of the Board and focuses on our The Committee met four times during the year and considered aspiration to have a minimum of 25% female representation on the executive and non-executive succession planning, refreshment of skills Board by 2015.
With the appointment of Valerie Gooding on 1 February of the Board and the Board effectiveness review.
2014 the Board has 21% female representation which will increase The Committee leads the process for appointments to the Board.
to 23% on the appointment of Dame Clara Furse on 1 September 2014.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Subject to securing suitable candidates, when making appointments appointment of new directors.
Candidates are identified and selected we will seek directors who fit the skills criteria and gender balance on merit against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits that is in line with the Boards aspiration.
We continue to focus of diversity on the Board, including gender.
on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained Four external searches were commissioned during the year, using from different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the Board.
independent executive search firms, Korn Ferry and Egon Zehnder, Further information, including the proportions of women in senior neither of which has any other connection to the Company.
The first management, is shown in Our people on page 36 and within the search related to identification of non-executive director candidates organisation overall, is contained in our 2013-14 sustainability report, with relevant City and or marketing experience and was undertaken available at vodafone.
Valerie Gooding was identified as a potential candidate and subsequently recommended to the Board by the Committee This year, when reviewing the re-election of directors at the AGM in July, on the basis that she met the desired criteria having previously been the Committee took account of the fact that Luc Vandevelde will have leader of a branded consumer business.
served 11 years as of 31 August 2014 and Philip Yea will have served nine years as of 1 September 2014.
The Board has considered the Korn Ferry also undertook a search to identify a non-executive matter carefully and believes that both these non-executive directors director with international business experience and chief executive continue to demonstrate the qualities of independence and judgement officer experience.
The search identified Sir Crispin Davis as a potential in carrying out their roles, supporting the executive directors and candidate and he was subsequently recommended to the Board senior management in an objective manner.
Their length of service and by the Committee based on his international business experience resulting experience and knowledge of the Company is of great benefit as a former CEO of a global publishing company.
A search was also to the Board and both directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
conducted, again by Korn Ferry, to identify a non-executive director with The subject of their independence will be kept under review.
international banking and finance experience as well as chief executive officer experience.
This search identified Dame Clara Furse who was In the year ahead the Committee will continue to assess what recommended by the Committee for appointment by the Board based enhancements should be made to the Boards and committees on her significant banking and finance experience as former CEO composition and will continue to monitor developments in corporate of a number of financial institutions.
governance to ensure the Company remains at the forefront of good governance practices.
Egon Zehnder undertook an external search in respect of the role of Group Chief Financial Officer.
Concurrent to this external search, an internal search was undertaken for this role and, following an extensive review of candidates, a preferred internal candidate was chosen with Nick Read being recommended for appointment by the Committee.
Gerard Kleisterlee On behalf of the Nominations and Governance Committee The Committee recognises that with the changes in Board composition, changes will be required on the Boards committees.
The first of these 20 May 2014 changes will be to invite Omid Kordestani to join the Committee with effect from 28 July 2014.
Changes will also take place to the Remuneration Committee and Audit and Risk Committee.
With effect from 28 July 2014, Philip Yea will resign from the Remuneration Committee and Valerie Gooding will join the Remuneration Committee.
Also on 28 July 2014, Sir Crispin Davis, who will be appointed to the Board on this date, and Philip Yea will join the Audit and Risk Committee.
Dame Clara Furse will also join the Audit and Risk Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 September 2014.
