Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 64 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 65 Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Our remuneration policy and executive pay The Committee meets 11 times a year under the chairmanship of the packages are designed to be competitive Chief Executive.
Topics covered by the Committee include: and drive behaviour in order a Chief Executive update on the business and business environment: to achieve long-term strategic goals.
When making decisions we are mindful a regional chief executives updates: of the wider economic conditions and a Group function heads updates: shareholder feedback.
a substantial business developments and projects: a talent: Membership: Chairman a presentations from various function heads, for example, the Group Luc Vandevelde Financial Controller, the Group Audit Director and the Group Independent non-executive director Compliance Director: a competitor analysis: and Samuel Jonah Philip Yea Independent Independent a strategy.
non-executive director non-executive director Annually, the Executive Committee, together with the chief executives of the major operating companies, conduct a strategy Renee James review to identify key strategic issues to be presented to the Board.
Independent non-executive director The agreed strategy is then used as a basis for developing the upcoming budget and three year operating plans.
With effect from 28 July 2014, Philip Yea will step down from the Remuneration Committee and Valerie Gooding will be appointed to the Committee.
The Committee members biographical details are set out on pages 52 and 53 and at vodafone.
Key objective: to assess and make recommendations to the Board on the policies Policy and Compliance Committee for executive remuneration and packages for the individual This is a sub-committee of the Executive Committee comprising executive directors.
It is appointed to assist the Responsibilities: Executive Committee to fulfil its accountabilities with regard to policy a determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the remuneration compliance.
In particular, the Committee approves changes to policies, of the Chairman of the Board, the executive directors and the senior does deep dives into particular policies to assess whether they are management team: effective and maintains an overview of the status of compliance throughout Vodafone so clear and accurate reports can be made a determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals to the Audit and Risk Committee twice a year.
Deep dives this year including any compensation on termination of office: covered the policies relating to radio frequency electromagnetic fields a operating within recognised principles of good governance: and EMF, competition law, protecting customer information, anti-money laundering and fraud.
a preparing an annual report on directors remuneration.
Disclosure Committee Committee meetings The Disclosure Committee, appointed by the Chief Executive and Chief No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled Financial Officer to ensure the accuracy and timeliness of Company to be present at its meetings.
The Chairman of the Board and Chief disclosures, oversees and approves controls and procedures in relation Executive may attend the Committees meetings by invitation but to the public disclosure of financial information and other information they do not attend when their individual remuneration is discussed.
It is composed of the Group General Counsel No director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
and Company Secretary the Chair, Regional Chief Financial Officers, The Committee met five times during the year.
the Group Financial Controller, the Group Investor Relations Director, Main activities of the Committee during the year the Group Strategy and Business Development Director, and the A detailed report to shareholders from the Committee on behalf of the Group External Affairs Director.
Board in which, amongst other things, I have included a description of the Committees activities during the year, is contained in Directors remuneration on pages 69 to 85.
