Vodafone Group Plc 68 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Quorum What are our US listing requirements?
The quorum required for shareholder meetings, in accordance with As Vodafones American depositary shares are listed on the NASDAQ our articles of association, is two shareholders, regardless of the Stock Market LLC NASDAQ, we are required to disclose a summary level of their aggregate share ownership, while US companies of any material differences between the corporate governance listed on NASDAQ are required by the NASDAQ listing rules to have practices we follow and those of US companies listed on NASDAQ.
a minimum quorum of 33.33% of the shareholders of ordinary shares for Vodafones corporate governance practices are primarily based shareholder meetings.
on UK requirements but substantially conform to those required of US companies listed on NASDAQ.
The material differences are Related party transactions as follows: In lieu of obtaining an independent review of related party transactions for conflicts of interests in accordance with the NASDAQ listing rules, Independence we seek shareholder approval for related party transactions that i meet Different tests of independence for Board members are applied under certain financial thresholds or ii have unusual features in accordance the Code and the NASDAQ listing rules.
The Board is not required to take with the Listing Rules issued by the FCA in the United Kingdom the into consideration NASDAQs detailed definitions of independence as set Listing Rules, the Companies Act 2006 and our articles of association.
out in the NASDAQ listing rules.
Further, we use the definition of a transaction with a related party In accordance with the Code, the Board has carried out an assessment as set out in the Listing Rules, which differs in certain respects from the based on the independence requirements of the Code and has definition of related party transaction in the NASDAQ listing rules.
determined that, in its judgement, all of Vodafones non-executive directors who make up the majority of the Board are independent Shareholder approval within the meaning of those requirements.
We comply with the NASDAQ listing rules and the Listing Rules, when determining whether shareholder approval is required for Committees a proposed transaction.
The NASDAQ listing rules require US companies to have a nominations committee, an audit committee and a compensation committee, each Under the NASDAQ listing rules, whether shareholder approval composed entirely of independent directors, with the nominations is required for a transaction depends on, among other things, committee and the audit committee each required to have a written the percentage of shares to be issued or sold in connection with the charter which addresses the committees purpose and responsibilities, transaction.
Under the Listing Rules, whether shareholder approval and the compensation committee having sole authority and adequate is required for a transaction depends on, among other things, whether funding to engage compensation consultants, independent legal the size of a transaction exceeds a certain percentage of the size of the counsel and other compensation advisors.
listed company undertaking the transaction.
Our Nominations and Governance Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and its other members are independent nonexecutive directors.
Our Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The Audit and Risk Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors, each of whom i the Board has determined to be independent based on the independence requirements of the Code and ii meets the independence requirements of the Exchange Act.
We have terms of reference for our Nominations and Governance Committee, Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee, each of which complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for inspection on our website vodafone.
These terms of reference are generally responsive to the relevant NASDAQ listing rules but may not address all aspects of these rules.
Code of Conduct Under the NASDAQ listing rules, US companies must adopt a code of conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees that complies with the definition of a code of ethics set out in section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have adopted a Code of Ethics that complies with section 406 which is applicable only to the senior financial and principal executive officers, and which is available on our website vodafone.
We have also adopted a separate Code of Conduct which applies to all employees.
