Vodafone Group Plc 86 Annual Report 2014 Directors report Directors report Dividends The Directors of your Company present their report together with the Full details of the Companys dividend policy and proposed final consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014. dividend payment for the year ended 31 March 2014, are set out on page 124.
This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Sustainability Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and forms part of the Information about the Companys approach to sustainability risks and management report as required under DTR4.
Certain information opportunities is set out on pages 34 and 35.
Also included on these that fulfils the requirements of the directors report can be found pages are details of our greenhouse gas emissions.
elsewhere in this document and is referred to below.
This information is incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Political donations Responsibility statement No political donations under the Companies Act 2006 have been made during the financial year.
The Group policy is that no political donations As required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules a statement be made or political expenditure incurred.
made by the Board regarding the preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 88.
This statement also provides details Financial risk management objectives and policies regarding the disclosure of information to the Companys auditors and managements report on internal control over financial information.
Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging are set out in note 23 to the Going concern consolidated financial statements.
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the Exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks Code is set out in the Directors statement of responsibility on page89.
Our disclosures relating to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity Strategic report risk and cash flow risk are outlined in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
The strategic report is set out in pages 1 to 47 and is incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Important events since the end of the financial year Directors and their interests Details of those important events affecting the Group which have occurred since the end of the financial year are set out in the strategic A full list of the individuals who were directors of the Company during report and note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
the financial year ended 31 March 2014 is set out below.
Gerard Kleisterlee, Vittorio Colao, Andy Halford, Stephen Pusey, Future developments within the Group ValerieGooding, Renee James, Alan Jebson, Samuel Jonah, Omid The strategic report contains details of likely future developments Kordestani, Nick Land, Anne Lauvergeon, Luc Vandevelde, Anthony within the Group.
Details of each directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares, Research and development options held over ordinary shares, interests in share options and long Details of the Groups activities relating to research and development are term incentive plans are set out in full on pages 69 to 85. contained in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors conflicts of interest Branches Established within the Company is a procedure for managing and As the Group is a global business there are activities operated through monitoring conflicts of interest for directors.
Full details of this procedure many jurisdictions.
Employee disclosures Directors indemnities Our disclosures relating to the employment of disabled persons, Details of qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit the number of women in senior management roles, employee of the Companys directors can be found on page 57. engagement and policies are included in Our people on pages 36 and 37.
Corporate governance statement By Order of the Board Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain parts of the corporate governance statement to be outlined in the directors report.
This information is laid out in the corporate governance statement, on pages 48 to 85.
Capital structure and rights attaching to shares Rosemary Martin Company Secretary All information relating to the Companys capital structure, rights 20 May 2014 attaching to shares, dividends, the policy to repurchase the Companys own shares and other shareholder information is contained on pages 182 to 189 and incorporated into this directors report by reference.
