Vodafone Group Plc 66 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that there How do we engage with our shareholders?
is effective communication with investors, and that the Board We are committed to communicating our strategy and activities clearly understands the views of major shareholders on matters such to our shareholders and, to that end, we maintain an active dialogue with as governance and strategy.
The Chairman makes himself available investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
to meet shareholders for this purpose.
The Senior Independent Director and other members of the Board are also available to meet major Investor relations programme investors on request.
The Board receives a regular report from the The programme includes: Investor Relations team and feedback from meetings held between a formal presentations of full-year and half-year results, and interim executive management, or the Investor Relations team and institutional management statements see vodafone.
com investor for shareholders, is also communicated to the Board.
more information : Geographic shareholder movement % of share register a briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in the over three years UK, the United States and Europe after the full-year and half-year results: a graph showing the geographical analysis of investors 50 is shown on this page : 45 a regular investor relations meetings with investors 40 in other geographies: 35 a formal presentations around significant acquisitions and disposals, 30 e. g. the acquisition of Kabel Deutschland and the Verizon 25 Wireless transaction: 20 a regular meetings between institutional investors and analysts, 15 and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, to discuss business performance, growth strategy and address any issues 10 of concern: 5 1 2 a meetings between major shareholders and the Chairman 0 UK US Europe Rest of World on an ongoing basis including roadshows in London and Edinburgh 30 March 2012 28 March 2013 31 March 2014 to obtain feedback and consider corporate governance issues: Notes: 1 We have included bearer warrants with the US shareholding as we understand the vast majority are US-based.
a analysing and approaching new geographies to actively market the 2 Excluding the UK.
business to new investors: What happens at our AGM?
a dialogue between the Remuneration Committee and shareholders.
Go to pages 70 and 71 for more information: a All of our directors.
a hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior a Executive Committee members.
management from relevant operating companies are present: a Our shareholders.
a attendance by senior executives across the business at relevant meetings and conferences throughout the year: What is the format?
a responding daily to enquiries from shareholders and analysts a A summary presentation of results is given before the Chairman deals through our Investor Relations team: with the formal business.
a hosting webinars to highlight key areas of the business such a All shareholders present can question the Chairman, the Chairmen as M-Pesa and money payment services, Vodafone Turkey, of the Committees and the rest of the Board both during the meeting Vodafone Netherlands and 4G: and and informally afterwards.
a a section dedicated to shareholders and analysts on our website a The Board encourages participation of investors, including individual at vodafone.
com investor, including specific sections for any investors, at the AGM.
material transactions or shareholder events, e. g. the Verizon Wireless transaction.
AGM broadcast a The AGM is broadcast live on our website at vodafone.
a A recording can subsequently be viewed on our website.
Key shareholder engagements February June November Interim management statement Annual report Half-year results May July Preliminary results full-year results Interim management statement Annual general meeting
