Vodafone Group Plc 88 Annual Report 2014 Directors statement of responsibility The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations and keeping proper accounting records.
Detailed below are statements made by the directors in relation to their responsibilities, disclosure of information to the Companys auditors, going concern and managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
Financial statements and accounting records Directors responsibility statement Company law of England and Wales requires the directors to prepare The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair a the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: of the Group: a select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: a the parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance a make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit a present information, including accounting policies, of the Company: and in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: a the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together a state whether the consolidated financial statements have been with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and Article 4 of the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report EU IAS Regulations.
The directors also ensure that the consolidated in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having taken advice financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS from the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board considers the report and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : accounts, taken as a whole, as fair, balanced and understandable and a state for the Company financial statements whether applicable that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the UKaccounting standards have been followed: and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
a prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless Neither the Company nor the directors accept any liability to any person it isinappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will in relation to the annual report except to the extent that such liability continue in business.
could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A and which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. position of the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 Disclosure of information to the auditor andfor the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the EU IAS Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud the directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make and other irregularities.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 88 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 89 Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, Going concern has inherent limitations including the possibility of human error and The Groups business activities, performance, position and principal risks the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures, and uncertainties and how these are managed or mitigated are set out and maynot prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections in the strategic report on pages 1 to 47. of any evaluationof effectiveness to future periods are subject to the In addition, the financial position of the Group is included within riskthatcontrols may become inadequate because of changes Commentary on the consolidated statement of cash flows on page in conditions or because the degree of compliance with the policies 103, Borrowings, Liquidity and capital resources and Capital and orprocedures may deteriorate.
financial risk management in notes 21, 22 and 23 respectively to the Management has assessed the effectiveness of the internal control consolidated financial statements, which include disclosure in relation over financial reporting at 31 March 2014 based on the original to the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and in 1992.
Based on managements assessment, management has liquidity risk.
concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective The Group has considerable financial resources, and the directors at 31 March 2014. believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks In 2013, COSO published an updated Internal Control Integrated successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Framework which will supersede the original framework from expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 15 December 2014.
Accordingly, the new framework will be to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
implemented during the year ending 31 March 2015.
The Groups Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis existing controls will be mapped to the five components and in preparing the annual report and accounts.
17principles in the updated Internal Control Integrated Framework.
Further discussion on the basis of the going concern assessment by the Any gaps will be evaluated and, where required, additional controls directors is set out on page 200. identified, or existing controls enhanced.
The assessment excluded the internal controls over financial reporting Managements report on internal control relating to Kabel Deutschland Holding AG KDG because it became over financialreporting a subsidiary during the year, as described in note 28 Acquisitions and As required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management disposals.
KDG will be included in the Groups assessment at 31 March is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control 2015.
Key amounts consolidated for KDG at 31 March 2014 are total over financial reporting for the Group.
The Groups internal control over assets of 9,741 million, net assets of 4,709 million and revenue and financial reporting includes policies and procedures that: loss for the financial year of 735 million and 242 million, respectively.
a pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, During the period covered by this document, there were no changes accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the a are designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
arerecorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU and IFRS The Groups internal control over financial reporting at 31 March 2014 as issued by the IASB, and that receipts and expenditures are being has been audited by Deloitte LLP, an independent registered public made only in accordance with authorisation of management and the accounting firm who also audit the Groups consolidated financial directors of the Company: and statements.
Their audit report on internal control over financial reporting is on page 90. a provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition By Order of the Board of the Groups assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Rosemary Martin Company Secretary 20 May 2014
