Vodafone Group Plc 58 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Board committees Nominations and The Board has a Nominations and Governance Committee, an Audit and Risk Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
Further details Governance Committee of these committees can be found in their reports on pages 58 to 65.
The Nominations and Governance The terms of reference of each of these committees can be found Committee continues its work of ensuring on our website at vodafone.
the Board composition is right and that The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable our governance is effective.
them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary or her delegate acts as secretary to the committees.
The minutes of committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
The calendar for meetings of the Board and its committees is shown below.
Membership: Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Chairman 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 Gerard Kleisterlee Board Chairman of the Board Not independent scheduled meetings Nominations and Philip Yea Governance Committee Luc Vandevelde Independent Senior Audit and Risk Committee non-executive director Independent Director Remuneration Committee Anthony Watson Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another Independent non-executive director engagement are provided with the briefing materials and can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Key objective: In addition to scheduled Board meetings, there may be a number to make sure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, of other meetings to deal with specific matters.
Each scheduled knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging Board meeting is preceded by a meeting of the Chairman and nonits responsibilities and to have oversight of all matters relating executive directors.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its Responsibilities: committees in the 2014 financial year a leads the process for identifying and making recommendations Nominations and to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as directors, Governance Audit and Risk Remuneration giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership Director Board Committee Committee Committee needs of the Group: Chairman 1 Gerard Kleisterlee 7 7 3 3 a makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Senior Independent Director Boards committees: 2 Luc Vandevelde 7 7 3 3 5 5 a regularly reviews and makes recommendations in relation Chief Executive to the structure, size and composition of the Board including the Vittorio Colao 7 7 diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the Executive directors independence of the non-executive directors: Andy Halford 7 7 a oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees Stephen Pusey 7 7 and individual directors see pages 56 and 57 : Non-executive directors 3 a reviews the tenure of each of the non-executive directors: and Valerie Gooding 1 1 Renee James 7 7 4 5 a is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate Alan Jebson 7 7 4 4 governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Samuel Jonah 7 7 4 5 Omid Kordestani 7 7 4 Nick Land 7 7 4 4 Anne Lauvergeon 7 7 4 4 Anthony Watson 7 7 3 3 4 4 Philip Yea 7 7 3 3 5 5 Notes: 1 Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
2 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
3 Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 February 2014.
4 Chairman and Financial Expert of the Audit and Risk Committee.
