Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 23 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Introduction from the Chairman Number of meetings The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest Board membership attended standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, my role is to Henry Staunton 8 of 8 run the Board to ensure that the Company operates effectively Suzanne Baxter 8 of 8 and ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills and Stephen Clarke 8 of 8 experience to assess, manage and mitigate risks.
Annemarie Durbin 8 of 8 This report, which forms part of the Directors report, Drummond Hall 8 of 8 providesdetails of how the Company has applied the principles of, and complied with, the UK Corporate Governance Code Robert Moorhead 8 of 8 2012 the Code.
A copy of the Code is available publicly from The Board has met twice since 31 August 2014 and all the www.
The information that is required by Disclosure and Transparency The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys Corporate ofmatters reserved for its decision with its key focus being on governance statement is included in this Corporate governance creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
The significant report, in the Directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 44 matters reserved for its decision include: the overall and in the Directors report on pages 45 to 47. management of the Company: approval of the business model and strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval Board of Directors of the Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, expenditure budgets: approval of the Annual report and financial two executive directors and three independent non-executive statements, material agreements and non-recurring projects: directors.
Short biographies of each of these directors, which treasury and dividend policy: control, audit and risk management: illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 29. executive remuneration: and corporate social responsibility.
Thereis a clear division of responsibility at the head of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system Company: Henry Staunton Chairman being responsible for ofrisk management and internal control including financial running the Board and Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process being responsible for implementing strategy.
Drummond Hall and operational and compliance controls and has conducted a isthe Senior Independent Director.
The Board structure review of its effectiveness during the year, to ensure that ensuresthat no individual or group dominates the decisionmanagement has implemented its policies on risk and control.
The Board has established an organisational structure with All the directors whose biographies are on page 29 served clearly defined lines of responsibility and approval controls throughout the period.
The Chairman was appointed as the identifying matters requiring approval by the Board.
Steps Chairman of BrightHouse Group PLC on 8 July 2014.
In advance continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk of this, the Board reviewed the Chairmans existing commitments management further into the operations of the business and and the time commitment required for the new role, and had no todeal with areas that require improvement which come to the objection to the Chairman taking up the appointment.
attention of management and the Board.
Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of All of the non-executive directors who served during the year failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide andup to the date of this report are considered by the Board to reasonable and not absolute assurance against material beindependent.
The Board met eight times during the year.
It is expected that all The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for directors attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and the identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Annual General Meeting AGM unless they are prevented from Company, including those risks relating to social, environmental doing so by prior commitments.
Suzanne Baxter, the Chair of the and ethical matters.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing Audit Committee, did not attend the AGM in January 2014 due to a the Group can be found in the Strategic report on pages 18 and 19. long-standing commitment which pre-dated her appointment to This process was in place throughout the year under review and the Board.
In Suzanne Baxters absence, Henry Staunton who up to the date of approval of the Annual report and meets the had been a member of the Audit Committee prior to his requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control Revised appointment as Chairman and the other members of the Audit Guidance for Directors produced by the Financial Reporting Committee were available at the AGM to answer questions on the Council the Turnbull Guidance.
work of the Audit Committee.
The minimum time commitment expected from the non-executive directors is one day per month Further information on internal controls and risk management attendance at meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 25 to 27.
Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any director not present on the discussions and any decisions taken at the meeting.
The following table shows the number of Board meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2014 and the attendance record of individual directors.
WH Smith PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Corporate governance report All directors have access to the advice and services of the Under the Companys Articles of Association, directors are Company Secretary and may take independent professional required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their three years and new directors appointed by the Board offer duties.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, themselves for election at the next AGM following their with Board and Committee papers normally being sent out a appointment.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board week before meetings take place.
New directors receive has agreed that all directors will stand for re-election at the AGM induction training on joining the Board which is tailored to meet to be held on 21 January 2015.
Biographies of all the directors are their needs to learn about the business, its markets and risks set out on page 29 of this Annual report and are also available for andincludes store visits and meetings with employees across viewing on the Companys website www.
thebusinesses and with external advisers.
The need for director The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the training is regularly assessed by the Board.
Boardto appoint directors and, where notice is given and signed The performance of the Board and its Committees is a by all the other directors, to remove a director from office.
fundamental component of the Companys success.
The Board TheCompanys Articles of Association themselves may be regularly reviews its own performance and carried out a formal amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The evaluation was conducted The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the externally by Equity Communications Limited Equity share capital of the Company, along with details of directors Communications, which provides board evaluation services share options and awards, are contained in the Remuneration andhas no other connection with the Company.
The scope of the report on pages 30 to 44. evaluation was broad and included Board effectiveness, Board structure and diversity, decision making processes, corporate At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material strategy and business model, risk, succession planning, investor interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of relations and Board Committees.
The findings of Equity Communications were presented to the The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Board Board in October 2014.
The results of the assessment were Committees, being the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration considered by the Board, and confirmed the strength of the Committees.
Details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit management of the Company, a sound governance framework Committee can be found on pages 25 to 27, of the Nominations and practices compliant with the Code.
As a result of the review, Committee on page 28 and of the Remuneration Committee on the Board agreed an action plan which will be implemented in pages 30 to 44.
The role and responsibilities of each Committee thefinancial year ending 31 August 2015 and which includes are set out in formal terms of reference which are available on continuing to build relationships between members of the Board the Companys website, www.
and with senior management, undertaking a review of the format and timing of the Board strategy days, continuing to improve the quality of papers submitted to the Board and being given greater access to other members of the senior management team.
In addition to the Board and Committee evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive reviews the performance of the CFO COO and other senior executives.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Group Chief Executive and each nonexecutive director.
The Chairman conducted a thorough review with Drummond Hall, because he has served on the Board for six years, to assess his independence and contribution to the Board and confirmed that he continues to be an effective non-executive director who demonstrates commitment to the role and remains independent in character and judgement.
During the year, the Chairman had regular meetings with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss Board issues and how to maintain the best possible team.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company and contributes to its governance and operations.
The Senior Independent Director met the other non-executive directors to assess the Chairmans performance and they concluded that Henry Staunton continues to be an effective Chairman and demonstrates his commitment to the role.
Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 25 The Audit Committee has met once since 31 August 2014 and all Board Committees the Committee members attended the meeting.
Audit Committee A summary of the activities undertaken by the Committee during the year is as follows: conducting a full tender of the external audit contract and recommending to the Board that  LLP should be appointed as the external Auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries: monitoring the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and Interim Management Statements: considering papers from management on the key financial reporting judgements: reviewing the Annual report and accounts including Chair: Suzanne Baxter compliance with the Code and statutory reporting requirements: Audit Committee report reviewing the assumptions and deficit recovery plan relating to the revaluation of the WHSmith defined benefit pension scheme Dear Shareholder as at 31 March 2014: As Chair of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present my reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, report on the activities of the Audit Committee for the financial internal control policies and procedures for the identification, year ended 31 August 2014.
Our principal objectives are to assessment and reporting of risk, including cyber security, tax, oversee and assist the Board in its responsibility to produce a and in respect of the Companys international businesses: setof Annual report and accounts which are fair, balanced and understandable and to provide effective financial governance in considering the Companys principal risks and uncertainties and reviewing the mitigating actions that management has respect of the Groups financial results, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor, and the taken to ensure that these risks are appropriately monitored and controlled: management of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
receiving reports and presentations from the business riskcommittees: The other members of the Committee are Annemarie Durbin receiving and reviewing reports from the Internal Audit and andDrummond Hall who are both independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant Risk teams: financial experience, as required by the Code.
At the invitation of holding private meetings with the external and internal the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, Auditors: the CFO COO, the Director of Audit and Risk and representatives agreeing the scope of Deloitte LLPs annual audit plans and of the external auditor attend meetings.
The Committee has reviewing the output: regular private meetings with the external and internal auditors assessing the effectiveness of the audit process and during the year.
considering the accounting, financial control and audit issues The Committee met four times during the year.
All Committee reported by Deloitte LLP that flowed from the audit work: members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table approving the Audit fee: shows the number of meetings held during the year ended reviewing Auditor independence and the policy on the 31August 2014 and the attendance record of individual directors.
engagement of Deloitte LLP to supply non-audit services: Number of undertaking a performance review of Internal Audit and the meetings Companys external Auditor, Deloitte LLP: and Committee membership attended monitoring the role and effectiveness of Internal Audit.
Suzanne Baxter 4 of 4 Annemarie Durbin 4 of 4 Drummond Hall 4 of 4 Henry Staunton, Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead were invited to and attended four meetings of the Audit Committee.
WH Smith PLC 26 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Significant financial reporting issues Fair, balanced and understandable assessment In preparing the accounts there are a number of areas As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider requiringthe exercise by management of particular judgement.
the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, TheCommittees role is to assess whether the judgments made balanced and understandable and that it provides the information by management are reasonable and appropriate.
In order to necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys assist in this evaluation, the CFO COO presents an accounting performance, business model and strategy.
When arriving at paper to the Committee twice a year, setting out the key financial thisposition the Board was assisted by a number of processes reporting judgements, and other papers as required.
The main including the following: areas of judgement that have been considered by the Committee the Annual report and accounts is drafted by senior in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: management with overall co-ordination by the Finance Director, Group to ensure consistency across the Accounting for inventory relevantsections: The Committee considered the judgements made by an internal verification process is undertaken to ensure management and a paper from the external Auditor regarding factualaccuracy: thevaluation of inventory, with specific consideration given to inventory provisioning including provision for slow moving or an independent review is undertaken by the Director of Audit obsolete stock.
The Committee is satisfied that the process and Risk to assess whether the Annual report and accounts is adopted by management for the valuation of inventory is fair, balanced and understandable using a set of pre-defined sufficiently robust to establish the value of inventory held indicators such as consistency with internally reported andissatisfied as to the appropriateness of the Companys information and investor communications : provisioning policy.
comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual report and accounts are undertaken by the executive directors and other Recognition of supplier income senior management: The Committee considered the Companys policy for the an advanced draft is reviewed by the Board and the Companys recognition of income receivable from suppliers and received Legal Director and, in relation to certain sections, by external aspecific paper from management which set out details of, legal advisers: and andbasis for, income recognised in the year.
The Committee the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to challenged managements assumptions around the recognition consideration by the Board.
The Committee advised the Board and accounting treatment for supplier income and are satisfied that the Annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, that the treatment adopted by management is appropriate.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Pensions performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee assessed the accounting treatment adopted by management and the adoption of IAS 19 revised in relation to Risk management and internal controls theWHSmith defined benefit pension scheme.
The Committee, having also received a paper on pensions from the external The Committee monitors and regularly reviews the effectiveness Auditor, and considered the current guidance and requirements of the Companys risk management processes and internal in respect of pensions accounting, reviewed the judgements financial and non-financial controls.
The key features of the risk made in respect of the assumptions used in the valuation of the management process that were in place during the year are Companys obligations under the scheme and the recognition asfollows: offuture liabilities in respect of committed scheme contributions each business conducts an annual risk assessment based on on the balance sheet.
identified business objectives which are reviewed and agreed by the executive management of each business.
Risks are Taxation considered in respect of strategic, reputational, operational, The Committee considered the judgements made by financial and compliance and are evaluated in respect of their management and a paper from the external Auditor in respect of potential impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments provisions made for historical taxation liabilities, including the areupdated and reviewed quarterly and are reported to nature, estimation uncertainties and age of the taxation liabilities theCommittee: of the Group.
a Group risk assessment is also undertaken by the Internal Audit team, which considers all areas of potential risk across Property all systems, functions and key business processes.
This risk The Committee considered the nature of property transactions assessment, together with the business risk assessments, undertaken by the Company in the year and reviewed the forms the basis for determining the Internal Audit Plan.
Companys obligations and provisions for the cost of onerous Auditreports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed property leases including lease obligations in respect of andagreed with the Committee: discontinued operations.
the Internal Audit team meets annually with senior executives Each of the above areas of judgement has been identified as an who are required to complete a formal certification of the area of focus and therefore the Committee has also reviewed effectiveness of the internal controls in their respective areas.
detailed reporting from the external Auditor, Deloitte LLP on the These certificates are provided by the risk committees to the relevant issues.
Committee, to assist the Board in conducting its annual review of internal controls in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance.
As part of its annual review the Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are included within the Annual report: Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 27 the Board is responsible for approving revenue and capital After discussions, it was agreed that the Company should budgets and plans, for approving major acquisitions and receiveformal tenders from Ernst & Young LLP, KPMG LLP disposals and for determining the financial structure of the  LLP, as these candidate firms Company, including treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly hadmore relevant retail and listed company experience than the results, variances from plan and forecasts are reported to other candidate firms.
The audit tender team developed a scoring theBoard: matrix for each tender to assess the quality of each candidate firm and the deliverability of its proposals, with a clear emphasis the Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its duties being placed on the quality and experience of the proposed audit regarding the Companys financial statements, accounting team and partner, the extent of firm-wide retail experience policies and the maintenance of proper internal business, andaclear and practical knowledge of listed company audits, operational and financial controls.
The Committee provides governance and reporting environments.
The Chairman of the adirect link between the Board and the external Auditor Company also attended the presentations of the proposals by through regular meetings: each tendering auditor.
the Internal Audit team advises and assists business management in the establishment and maintenance of While the Committee acknowledges that all three firms had the adequate internal controls and reports to the Committee on capability to provide a high quality audit service, the Committee, theeffectiveness of those controls: after deliberation, agreed to recommend to the Board that  LLP should be appointed as the there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning Companys Statutory Auditor following completion of the 2014 and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the year end process and that the appointment would be subject to Companys business to the Board.
Monthly results are reported shareholder approval at the AGM in January 2015. against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current financial year are regularly revised in light of actual Auditor independence performance.
These results and forecasts cover profits, During the year the external Auditor reported to the Committee cashflows, capital expenditure and balance sheets: on their independence from the Company.
The Committee and routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and the Board are satisfied that Deloitte LLP has adequate policies risks, for review by senior executives, and Annual reports are and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and prepared for the Board and Committee covering tax, treasury independence are maintained.
policies, insurance and pensions: In line with our terms of reference, the Committee undertook a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the Board, athorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and including objectives and targets to address the impact that our independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP.
The Director activities have on the environment, workplace, marketplace of Audit and Risk prepared a questionnaire seeking the views and and community.
More detailed information is available in our feedback of the Board, together with those of Group and divisional full CR report, available at www.
co. uk cr: and management and it formed the basis of further discussion with the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of health respondents.
The findings of the survey were considered by the and safety in all its business activities.
These standards are set Committee and discussed with Deloitte LLP.
out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
A copy of our Health and The Committee has a formal policy on the Companys relationship Safety policy is available at www.
The Risk with its auditor in respect of non-audit work to ensure that auditor Management team works with the business to assess health objectivity and independence are maintained.
The policy is and safety risks and introduce systems to mitigate them.
All reviewed annually by the Committee.
The majority of non-audit reportable accidents are investigated and targets are set to work undertaken by Deloitte LLP in 2013 14 related to turnover reduce the level of incidence.
certificates, required by the Companys landlords, and tax advice.
The auditor may only provide such services if such advice does The Director of Audit and Risk attends the meetings of the not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical Committee to discuss the above matters.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, my approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that External auditor exceed 25,000 per matter.
For the financial year ended 31August2014 the non-audit fees were 227,128 and the audit fee Last year we informed shareholders that in light of the changes to the Code on the appointment of auditors, the Committee intended was 316,063. to conduct a tender for the audit in 2014.
The tender process was The Committee would like to thank Deloitte LLP for their initiated in April 2014 and concluded following a decision by the significant contribution to the Company over the years.
Board on the appointment of the new auditors in July 2014.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer Audit tender anyquestions about the work of the Committee.
The tender was led by me as Chair of the Audit Committee and Suzanne Baxter transacted in conjunction with the CFO COO and the Group Chair of the Audit Committee Finance team: and overseen by the Committee.
The audit tender team held discussions with five audit firms, excluding the 16 October 2014 incumbent auditors Deloitte LLP, as part of the tender process.
Deloitte LLP, as a matter of their internal policy and in light of developing EU legislation on audit firm rotation, elected not to participate in the tender in view of their already long service, having been the Companys auditors since it was first listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1949.
WH Smith PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Corporate governance report The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments Nominations Committee relevant to the Company, including on the subject of diversity inthe boardroom.
Information on diversity, including gender, inrespect of the Board and the Company is set out in the Diversitysection of the Strategic report on page 22.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture free fromdiscrimination in any form and is proud of its long history ofbeingregarded as a responsible and respected employer.
TheCommittee believes in providing mentoring for women in senior roles and women who are identified as having the potential to reach senior roles to help them maximise their careers at the Company.
An action plan has been agreed to take further steps to Chair: Henry Staunton improve workplace diversity.
Actions include the appointment of a Diversity and Inclusion sponsor to champion diversity within the Nominations Committee report Executive management team, as well as focused initiatives to better understand the challenges faced by under-represented Dear Shareholder groups employed within the Company.
As Chairman of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any present my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee questions about the work of the Committee.
for the financial year ended 31 August 2014.
The Committees principal responsibility is to ensure that the Board comprises Henry Staunton individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to Chairman of the Nominations Committee ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and 16 October 2014 ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination, selection and succession of directors and seniorexecutives.
Remuneration Committee The Committee comprises a majority of independent nonexecutive directors.
The other members of the Committee are Information on the composition and activities of the Remuneration Suzanne Baxter, Stephen Clarke, Annemarie Durbin and Committee can be found in the Directors remuneration report on Drummond Hall.
In the event of any matters arising concerning pages 30 to 44. my membership of the Board, I would absent myself from the meeting as required by the Code and Drummond Hall, the Anti-corruption SeniorIndependent Director, would take the Chair.
The Company has continued to enhance its policies and The Committee met twice during the year.
The principal matters procedures in order to meet the requirements of the Bribery discussed at the meetings were succession planning for Board Act2010.
These policies and procedures include training for and senior executives and the recruitment of Carl Cowling, the individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed new MD of WH Smith Travel who is due to join the Company in as contravening the Act.
The Groups Bribery Ethics Statement is November 2014. included on the Companys website, www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
All Committee members are expected to attend meetings.
Thefollowing table shows the number of meetings held during Compliance with the Code the year ended 31 August 2014 and the attendance record of Throughout the year ended 31 August 2014 the Company has individual directors.
been in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
Number of Henry Staunton meetings Chairman Committee membership attended Henry Staunton 2 of 2 16 October 2014 Suzanne Baxter 2 of 2 Stephen Clarke 2 of 2 Annemarie Durbin 2 of 2 Drummond Hall 2 of 2 Robert Moorhead was invited to and attended one meeting of the Nominations Committee.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Companys succession plans and the ongoing structure and capability oftheBoard.
