Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 23 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Introduction from the Chairman Number of meetings The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest Board membership attended standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, my role is to Henry Staunton 8 of 8 run the Board to ensure that the Company operates effectively Suzanne Baxter 8 of 8 and ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills and Stephen Clarke 8 of 8 experience to assess, manage and mitigate risks.
Annemarie Durbin 8 of 8 This report, which forms part of the Directors report, Drummond Hall 8 of 8 providesdetails of how the Company has applied the principles of, and complied with, the UK Corporate Governance Code Robert Moorhead 8 of 8 2012 the Code.
A copy of the Code is available publicly from The Board has met twice since 31 August 2014 and all the www.
The information that is required by Disclosure and Transparency The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys Corporate ofmatters reserved for its decision with its key focus being on governance statement is included in this Corporate governance creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
The significant report, in the Directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 44 matters reserved for its decision include: the overall and in the Directors report on pages 45 to 47. management of the Company: approval of the business model and strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval Board of Directors of the Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, expenditure budgets: approval of the Annual report and financial two executive directors and three independent non-executive statements, material agreements and non-recurring projects: directors.
Short biographies of each of these directors, which treasury and dividend policy: control, audit and risk management: illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 29. executive remuneration: and corporate social responsibility.
Thereis a clear division of responsibility at the head of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system Company: Henry Staunton Chairman being responsible for ofrisk management and internal control including financial running the Board and Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process being responsible for implementing strategy.
Drummond Hall and operational and compliance controls and has conducted a isthe Senior Independent Director.
The Board structure review of its effectiveness during the year, to ensure that ensuresthat no individual or group dominates the decisionmanagement has implemented its policies on risk and control.
The Board has established an organisational structure with All the directors whose biographies are on page 29 served clearly defined lines of responsibility and approval controls throughout the period.
The Chairman was appointed as the identifying matters requiring approval by the Board.
Steps Chairman of BrightHouse Group PLC on 8 July 2014.
In advance continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk of this, the Board reviewed the Chairmans existing commitments management further into the operations of the business and and the time commitment required for the new role, and had no todeal with areas that require improvement which come to the objection to the Chairman taking up the appointment.
attention of management and the Board.
Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of All of the non-executive directors who served during the year failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide andup to the date of this report are considered by the Board to reasonable and not absolute assurance against material beindependent.
The Board met eight times during the year.
It is expected that all The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for directors attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and the identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Annual General Meeting AGM unless they are prevented from Company, including those risks relating to social, environmental doing so by prior commitments.
Suzanne Baxter, the Chair of the and ethical matters.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing Audit Committee, did not attend the AGM in January 2014 due to a the Group can be found in the Strategic report on pages 18 and 19. long-standing commitment which pre-dated her appointment to This process was in place throughout the year under review and the Board.
In Suzanne Baxters absence, Henry Staunton who up to the date of approval of the Annual report and meets the had been a member of the Audit Committee prior to his requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control Revised appointment as Chairman and the other members of the Audit Guidance for Directors produced by the Financial Reporting Committee were available at the AGM to answer questions on the Council the Turnbull Guidance.
work of the Audit Committee.
The minimum time commitment expected from the non-executive directors is one day per month Further information on internal controls and risk management attendance at meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 25 to 27.
Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any director not present on the discussions and any decisions taken at the meeting.
The following table shows the number of Board meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2014 and the attendance record of individual directors.
