Strategic report 59 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 reporT oF THe audiT and risk managemenT commiTTee The Chairman of the Committee, David The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Lowden, has recent and relevant financial Management Committee reports to the Board experience.
He is a chartered accountant and on the outcome of meetings.
has previously held senior financial positions A formalised whistle-blowing policy and within other international companies.
Sir Roy procedure for staff to raise issues regarding Gardner, Ashley Highfield, and Imelda Walsh possible improprieties in matters of financial are all financially literate and have significant reporting or other matters is in place and general business experience of executive operated during the year.
It is the responsibility roles in both private and public organisations of the Committee to monitor its effectiveness and details of each directors significant and any notifications made.
current and prior appointments are set out on pages 52 and 53.
The Committee has access to the services of the committee oversees the Internal Audit and Company Secretarial the effectiveness of Role of the Audit and Risk Management departments and is authorised to obtain independent professional advice if it considers Committee the groups financial it necessary.
A full copy of the terms of reference for the reporting, internal Committee can be obtained via the website control and risk Main activities during 2014 www.
com or by request to management.
it also The Committee has discharged its the Company Secretary.
The Committees responsibilities during the year by performing principal responsibilities are to: oversees the relationship the following activities.
With the external review and advise the Board on the Groups half year and annual financial Financial statements auditor, and it monitors During the year, the Committee reviewed and statements and its accounting policies the integrity of the and monitor the integrity of the financial discussed the financial disclosures made in groups financial the preliminary results announcement, Annual statements and announcements relating to financial performance: Report and Accounts and the half yearly statements and the results together with any related management assist the Board as necessary in effectiveness of the letters, letters of representation and reports ensuring that the Companys Annual risk& audit function.
Significant financial Report and Accounts is fair, balanced reporting issues and judgements were and understandable in accordance discussed and reviewed.
There were no Membership and meetings with applicable legislation and material changes to significant accounting Set out below is the current membership governance recommendations: policies during the year.
of the Audit and Risk Management review the major risks affecting the Group Committee together with the year in which The UK Corporate Governance Code and assist the Board with reviewing the requires the Board to confirm that they membership commenced.
During the year, effectiveness of the controls operating all the members of the Committee were consider the Annual Report and Accounts, over the Groups financial and nontaken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and independent Non-executive Directors.
financial risks: understandable and that it provides the Year of information necessary for shareholders Director appointment review the nature and scope of the to assess the Companys performance, work to be performed by the external David Lowden, Chairman 2011 business model and strategy.
The Committee and internal auditors, the result of that Sir Roy Gardner 2014 provided assistance to the Board in this work, managements response, and Ashley Highfield 2009 regard by considering the robustness of their effectiveness: Imelda Walsh 2011 the process by which the Annual Report oversee the relationship with the and Accounts is prepared.
In particular the The Company Secretary acts as secretary external auditors including making Committee noted that: to the Committee.
Other individuals attend recommendations to the Board at the request of the Committee Chairman regarding their appointment or removal guidance is issued to the primary and during the year the external auditors, contributors in respect of the requirement and developing a policy regarding the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance provision of non-audit services to the for the Annual Report and Accounts to be Director, Director of Group Legal Services, fair, balanced and understandable: Group.
The Committee is also responsible the Director of Risk & Audit, Head of Internal for overseeing the rotation or tender of the content of the Annual Report is Audit, the Group Financial Controller and external audit services in accordance with subject to rigorous review and checking Group Chief Information Officer would usually applicable legislation or good governance: by both the contributors and by certain attend all or some of the meetings to report senior management.
In particular, senior meet with the executive directors and to the Committee and provide clarification management, as well as privately with both management including the Group Finance and explanations where appropriate.
Director, Company Secretary and Director the external and internal auditors: and The Committee also meets with the external of Investor Relations have reviewed the auditors without executive management report to shareholders annually on its role entire Annual Report and Accounts to present on a regular basis.
ensure that it promotes consistency and met on six occasions during 2014 and details balance between the narrative front half of attendance at Committee meetings are set and accounts sections: out on page 56.
60 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report of the audit and risk management committee the Annual Report and Accounts follows External auditors In accordance with the policy, during the year a clear and cohesive framework which The Committee has responsibility for the Committee considered and approved facilitates the inclusion of key messages, overseeing the relationship with the external any non-audit work to be undertaken by the market and segment reviews, performance, auditors.
In particular, during 2014 the external auditors involving fees in excess of and principal risks to the business.
Committee continued to review and monitor 25,000.
Where no Committee meeting was Sufficient forward-looking information is the external auditors independence, scheduled within an appropriate time frame, also provided and a balance is sought objectivity and the effectiveness of the approval was sought from the Committee between describing potential challenges audit process.
The Committee approved Chairman and subsequently ratified at the and opportunities: and the external auditors engagement letter, next meeting.
All non-audit services provided audit fee and the annual audit plan by the external auditors are reported to the the Annual Report and Accounts is subject including the planned levels of materiality.
Committee at its next scheduled meeting.
to final approval by the Board, following The external auditors regularly attended Audit and non-audit fees paid to the review and comments by both the Audit Committee meetings in 2014 and met at external auditor are set out in note 5 to the and Risk Management Committee and by least once with the Committee without financial statements.
Deloitte has been the external auditor of the The Committee was satisfied with the The Chairman of the Committee has also met Group for more than 20 years and a tender actions taken in preparing the Annual Report in respect of the external audit has not been privately with the external auditors.
representation were reviewed during the year, sought since William Hill was listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2002.
Internal control and risk management prior to signature by executive management.
The Committee reviewed the Groups internal The Committee monitors the ethical guidance There are no contractual obligations control and risk management systems and regarding rotation of the external audit restricting the Groups choice of external received regular reports from a number partner.
Rob Matthews was William Hills auditors.
The Committee confirms that of departments, and, where appropriate, external audit partner and his five-year term it is satisfied with the performance of the presentations from senior management, on expired in 2014, in accordance with the latest external auditors during the year and with the major risks faced by the Group and the guidance.
Following a series of interviews the policies and procedures in place to procedures established to identify, assess, with the Committee Chairman and the Group maintain their objectivity and independence.
manage, monitor and report on these risks.
Finance Director, a new audit partner, Paul The Committee recommended that Deloitte In 2014, this included progress reports and Franek, was agreed by the Committee.
be reappointed at the forthcoming Annual presentations on business continuity planning, Paul Franek took over as audit partner for the General Meeting and the Board accepted and disaster recovery, anti-money laundering and 2014 financial year, following completion of a endorsed this recommendation.
In 2014 the Committee comprehensive handover process to ensure a also approved a revised fraud escalation The Committee has considered whether a seamless transition.
formal tender process is required in respect policy, designed to ensure a more consistent process throughout the business to escalate During the year, the Committee received of the external auditor.
During 2014 there regular reports from the external auditors were a number of legislative developments, and report incidences of fraud.
including a formal written report dealing both within the UK and within the EU, The Committee reviewed and approved the with the audit objectives: the auditors regarding regulatory reform in respect of the statements on internal controls on page 58. qualifications, expertise and resources: provision of audit services by the external The Committee also reviewed developments procedures and policies for maintaining auditor.
The Committee has monitored these in practice regarding internal control and independence: and compliance with the developments closely, in particular regarding risk management.
In particular, during 2014 ethical standards issued by the Auditing an Order issued by the Competition and the Committee noted the revised Guidance Practices Board.
The Committee also Markets Authority and the timing as to when on Risk Management, Internal Control and assessed the effectiveness of the audit definitive legislation will be enacted within Related Financial and Business Reporting process.
In addition, the external auditors the UK of an EU Regulation regarding the issued by the Financial Reporting Council management letter was reviewed, as was statutory audit market.
As William Hill was in September 2014.
The revised guidance managements response to issues raised.
listed on the London Stock Exchange in replaced the previous Turnbull guidance and 2002, the transitional provisions of the EU as it applies to accounting periods beginning The Committee regularly reviews the Groups Regulation provide that William Hill must on or after 1 October 2014, William Hills 2015 written policy regarding the employment by change its external auditor no later than June Annual Report will be prepared in accordance the Group of former employees of the external 2023.
The Committee has considered the with the new guidance.
auditors and the policy on non-audit services matter and in particular has considered the provided by the external auditors.
The policy following points: also sets out the criteria to be followed when considering whether external auditors should Paul Franek Deloitte became the new be engaged to undertake non-audit services external audit partner following on from with the aim of safeguarding the external Rob Matthews in 2014.
In accordance auditors objectivity and independence.
with the current ethical guidance regarding The external auditors are excluded from rotation of audit partners, his five-year performing any day-to-day accountancy work term will expire in 2019.
The Committee for the Group.
has welcomed the new perspective in respect of the audit which followed with theintroduction of Deloittes new audit partner: and Strategic report 61 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 definitive legislation in the UK of the EU Disclosure of significant issues other potential and actual liabilities.
Regulation regarding the statutory audit considered by the Committee Assumptions used in respect of the liability market must be enacted by no later than An important part of the Committees regarding the defined benefit pension June 2016.
Currently the UK Government responsibilities is to assess key issues in scheme were also reviewed, as a matter and the Financial Reporting Council are respect of the annual financial statements.
of routine: conducting consultation processes in This process is primarily focused on the items which had been categorised as respect of how some elements of the key issues identified by management for exceptional items for 2014.
It is normal EU Regulation will operate within the consideration.
However, each Committee policy each year to consider if any UK.
The consultations cover important member as a member of the Board receives matters should be treated in the financial matters such as the provision of non-audit regular updates on the performance of statements as exceptional: services by the external auditors and the business and in particular on material the consultation processes have not yet issues which may affect the finances of the an annual assessment by the directors been finalised.
This gives the Committee additional that it is appropriate to prepare the financial perspective to consider and to be familiar with statements on a going concern basis: and The Committee has concluded that given the years significant issues which need to be the effectiveness of key controls within the foregoing and in view of the changes considered.
In respect of the 2014 financial within William Hills business over the last the business.
year, the Committee reviewed and discussed few years, now would not be the right time with management the key issues which had Further details in respect of accounting to seek a tender in respect of the external been identified, both at the half year stage and treatments and assumptions are provided auditor.
The Committee further concluded again in respect of the full financial year.
as appropriate in the notes to the financial that its current intention is to rotate the statements.
The Committee considered external auditor by no later than the expiry In addition, each year the external auditor managements treatment in respect of of the five-year term of the external audit prepares a comprehensive forward plan in these areas and any related issues and partner i. e. by 2019 and hence on that respect of the audit of the annual financial also considered Deloittes audit findings in basis a competitive tendering process will statements.
Towards the end of 2014, the relation to such matters.
Following this, the commence prior to the expiry of the five-year Committee reviewed the plan and discussed Committee was satisfied that the judgements term.
The Committee will continue to monitor it with Deloitte.
The plan explained: made by management were reasonable legislative developments as they are finalised the scope and approach of the and that appropriate disclosures had been and will review its conclusion and any other audit, including consideration of included in the accounts.
The Committee also associated matter with regard to the external materiality thresholds: noted that Deloitte were prepared to issue an auditor again in due course.
audit opinion, which appears on pages 86 any key areas of change in the focus of the Internal Audit to 89 of this Annual Report, in respect of the audit: and During the year the Committee approved the annual financial statements.
annual audit plan and it monitored progress areas of significant audit risk which would Other activities against the plan.
Audit reports were made be subject to particular audit findings.
Regular updates were provided to the available to the Committee members after each The Committee endorsed Deloittes plan in Committee during 2014 on developments audit and the Committee monitored progress in financial reporting, risk management and respect of 2014. against actions identified in those reports and legal and corporate governance matters.
the external auditors management letter.
The Committee pays particular attention The Committee also reviewed and discussed During the year and in particular regarding to the matters which it considers may the Audit Quality Review issued by the the approval of the internal audit plan for the affect the integrity of the Groups financial Financial Reporting Council in 2014 in respect forthcoming year the Committee enquired as statements, with a view to satisfying itself that of Deloitte in order to gain further insight on to the adequacy of the resources of the Risk & each matter has been treated appropriately.
The Committee found that there was a David Lowden good level of alignment between the key The Risk & Audit function has unrestricted Chairman, Audit and Risk Management Committee areas identified by management and the access to all Group documentation, areas highlighted for review by Deloitte.
premises, functions and employees as The Committee assessed each matter, which required to enable it to perform its functions.
included reviews of: The appointment and removal of the Director of Risk & Audit and Head of Internal Audit the accounting treatment and disclosures is the responsibility of the Committee.
in respect of a decision to rebrand William The Director of Risk & Audit and Head of Hills Australian businesses: Internal Audit have direct access to the Board the carrying value of goodwill and and Committee Chairman.
During 2014 intangibles across the Group.
The Group the Director of Risk & Audit and Head of regularly assesses whether the carrying Internal Audit continued to meet regularly value of goodwill and intangibles should be with the Committee Chairman without impaired as well as the suitability of useful executive management.
economic lives: revenue recognition treatment and the valuation of ante post open bets.
