54 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 sTaTemenT on corporaTe governance The operation of the Board Matters reserved to the Board include: How the Board operates Role of Chairman, CEO and Senior setting the overall direction, long-term The Chairman, along with the executive directors and Company Secretary, has Independent Director objectives and strategy of the Group and Throughout 2014, the Chairman, Gareth delegating day-to-day management to established Board processes designed to maximise its performance.
Key aspects of Davis, was responsible for leadership of the CEO: the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all these are shown below: reviewing Group performance: aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Board meetings are scheduled to ensure James Henderson, as the CEO, is the reviewing the arrangements in place consideration of issues relevant for the executive responsible for the running of the relating to regulatory and industry issues: Board and to provide adequate time for business.
Sir Roy Gardner is the Senior approving the appointment and discussion of each agenda item.
This takes Independent Non-executive Director and his removal of any Board member and the the form of advance planning for the main role is to satisfy the function outlined in Company Secretary: forthcoming Board meeting.
In addition, the Code of being available to shareholders we review over the longer term the issues if there are concerns which normal contact reviewing and approving the terms of which need to be considered by the Board has failed to resolve, to lead the process for reference of the various Board Committees so that a sufficiently strategic outlook is evaluating the Chairmans performance and and receiving reports from Committee retained.
At each Board meeting progress to chair the Nomination Committee when Chairmen on a regular basis: against previously agreed actions is dealt it is considering succession to the role of approving changes to the Groups capital with as a standing item and this ensures Chairman.
The role of the Senior Independent structure, any significant acquisitions and that matters of most importance on which Director also includes, if needed, a process disposals, capital investment projects and the Board have requested action have under which he she might intervene to material contracts: been progressed appropriately: maintain Board and Company stability.
approval of the Groups annual plan, reporting packs are normally distributed The role specifications of Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Non-executive Director Annual Report and Accounts, Half Yearly at least four working days in advance Statement and setting the Groups of Board meetings, enabling them to are defined in writing and approved by the Board.
No one individual has unfettered dividend policy: be as up-to-date as possible whilst allowing sufficient time for their review and powers of decision-making.
approval of the Groups charitable consideration in advance of the meeting.
Matters reserved to the Board donations and Group-wide corporate Verbal updates at Board meetings cover The Board considers that its primary role is responsibility policies: any material developments subsequent to provide leadership to the Group, to set undertaking reviews of Board, Committee to the distribution of Board packs.
the Groups long-term strategic objectives and individual director performance: and Presentations and discussions during and to oversee robust corporate governance Board meetings are provided by either the and risk management practices.
The Board succession planning for senior executive director concerned or by the operates within a formal Schedule of Matters management and the Board relevant senior manager who has been Reserved to it and this forms part of an on the recommendation of the invited to attend for that particular item: overarching Group Delegation of Authority.
Other powers are delegated to the various where a director is unable to attend he The authority delegated to senior Board Committees and senior management or she is still provided with the papers management provides a practical framework via formal Committee terms of reference in order to comment on the matters to to executive management, which seeks to or via the Group Delegation of Authority.
be discussed: achieve the dual objectives of maintaining During 2014 a comprehensive review of effective financial and operational controls comprehensive reporting packs are both the Group Delegation of Authority and whilst providing sufficient flexibility to provided to the Board, which are designed the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the manage the business.
Examples of areas to be clear, accurate and analytical, whilst Board was undertaken by the Company of such delegated authority include: the avoiding excessive and unnecessary Secretary for consideration by the Board.
release of capital expenditure against information.
Papers are distributed and Refinements were made to reflect changes in approved budgets: treasury activity within retained in an electronic system, providing the Group, including its continuing growth and approved limits: payroll processing: property directors with instant access to current and to reflect its greater international diversification.
transactions: LBO activities: the setting prior papers at any time: The Group Delegation of Authority and of bet acceptance limits: and routine Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board management accounts with commentary transaction processing.
will continue to be reviewed and updated are distributed to the Board on a regular on a regular basis.
Details of the roles and basis.
The Board regularly reviews responsibilities of the Board Committees are risk management and challenges this set out within this report.
where appropriate: Board discussions are held in a collaborative atmosphere of mutual respect allowing for questions, scrutiny and constructive challenge, where appropriate.
In addition to formal Board meetings, during the year the Board held a series of informal dinners which provided an excellent opportunity for further discussion between the Board and for the Board to Strategic report 55 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 engage further with various members of Board Committees Board performance the management team in discussions over The Remuneration Committee, the Information and professional various matters in a more informal setting: Nomination Committee, the Audit and Risk development full debates allow decisions to be taken by Management Committee and the Corporate The Chairman, supported by the Company consensus although any dissenting views Responsibility Committee are standing Secretary, takes responsibility for ensuring would be minuted accordingly : committees of the Board.
that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Board receives reports the development of strategy is led by The terms of reference of the Committees from management on the performance of the executives with input, challenge, are available upon request or via the Groups the Group at Board meetings and other examination and ongoing testing from the corporate website www.
Regular updates are provided to Non-executive Directors: and are regularly reviewed by the relevant the Board and Board Committees on relevant committee and the Board.
All Committees Group strategy is reviewed by the legal, corporate governance and financial have access to independent expert advice Board, most particularly at the Boards reporting developments.
Directors are also as necessary.
Appointments to Board annual strategy meeting.
The annual encouraged to attend external seminars committees are for three-year terms strategy meeting in 2014 refined the on areas of relevance to their role to further extendable by no more than two additional Companys strategic priorities and covered enhance their knowledge and details of three-year terms.
each material part of the business.
suitable training events are forwarded to Senior managers attended the annual James Henderson also chairs an Executive directors by the Company Secretary.
Committee team, which meets at least six strategy meeting to provide additional The Chairman is responsible for taking the strategic input across all parts of the times a year and includes senior management lead on issues of director development and within the business.
A comprehensive process is encouraging all Board members to engage in in place to track and follow up on actions team retains oversight on issues affecting Board and Committee meetings by drawing the day-to-day management of the Groups arising from the annual strategy meeting.
on their skills, experience and knowledge.
Strategic matters are also reviewed as operations and also reviews certain In particular, the Chairman has led a process matters prior to Board or Board Committee appropriate at each Board meeting: whereby many of the Non-executive Directors consideration.
Members and regular good working relationships exist between deepened their knowledge of the business attendees at Executive Committee team Non-executive Directors and non-Board through a series of individual site visits across meetings are: members of the senior management the business.
This has proved to be very team, which are encouraged by the James Henderson, CEO Chair helpful and observations following site visits executive directors: are shared with the rest of the Board.
Neil Cooper, Group Finance Director members of the senior management Each newly-appointed director receives an Joe Asher, CEO William Hill US team draw on the collective experience induction and each induction programme is Robin Chhabra, of the Board, including its Non-executive tailored specifically to suit the needs of the Group Director of Strategy and Directors: and newly-appointed director.
During the year Corporate Development James Henderson and Sir Roy Gardner the Board visits the Groups business were both appointed to the Board.
Kristof Fahy, Chief Marketing Officer locations both to review its operations James Henderson, for example, has many and to meet with local management.
Nicola Frampton, Director, UK Retail years of experience at William Hill, so his This included a two-day site visit to the induction programme was tailored to focus Jamie Hart, Companys operations in Leeds during in particular on matters such as investor Group Director of Innovation and 2014, where much of the Groups Retail relations and his duties under the listing Customer Experience and other operations are based.
Sir Roy Gardners induction covered a Michael Leadbeater, Conflicts of interest range of general, industry and Group-specific Director of Group Legal Services In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, information and there was also a handover the Companys Articles of Association include process as Sir Roy assumed the role of Senior Andrew Lee, Managing Director, Online provisions reflecting recommended practice Independent Director from David Edmonds.
Calum Lynch, Director of Risk & Audit concerning conflicts of interest.
The Board Induction programmes are also in place for has in place procedures for directors to report Phil Moyes, appointment to the Board Committees.
any potential or actual conflicts to the other Group Chief Information Officer Each director has access to all required members of the Board for their authorisation Terry Pattinson, Group Director of Trading information relating to the Group and to where appropriate.
In deciding whether to the advice and services of the Company David Russell, authorise a conflict or potential conflict of Secretary.
The Board also obtains advice from interest only non-interested directors i. e. Group Human Resources Director professional advisers as and when required those who have no interest in the matter David Steele, Director of Corporate Affairs and directors may, as required, obtain external under consideration will be able to take the advice at the expense of the Group.
Luke Thomas, Company Secretary relevant decision.
In taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, Tom Waterhouse, in good faith, will be most likely to promote CEO William Hill Australia the Companys success.
In addition, the directors may impose conditions or limitations During the year a sub-committee of the Board when giving authorisation if they think this comprising the Chairman and the executive is appropriate.
directors considered the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
This is explained further in the Directors Report.
56 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 statement on corporate governance Board performance evaluation The review concluded that the Board In addition to reviewing the Boards continues to work well.
There had been effectiveness, a further opportunity was also The Board continues to recognise the benefits ongoing improvements and delivery against taken through the evaluation process for of an effective evaluation of its performance some of the important matters highlighted each Board member to identify the issues and the process for 2014 was conducted in the previous year, for example, regarding and topics they considered to be of most internally with the assistance of the Company succession planning for the new CEO and importance for Board debate during 2015.
Secretary this follows an external process on further refinements to the Board strategy The Chairman, CEO and Company Secretary conducted in 2013.
Some further areas, which will will review these issues and topics and they agreed by the Chairman in respect of the be incorporated into an action plan, have will be incorporated into the 2015 Board Board and by each Committee chair in been highlighted for further improvement calendar for further discussion and action respect of their respective Board Committee.
Each Board member and Committee member completed their respective some fine tuning in the Boards scheduling, questionnaires online and in confidence forward agenda setting process and a and the results were collated for further more structured periodic review of how the review and discussion by the Board and the Company is meeting its objectives: respective Committee.
making even better use of the Boards informal Board dinners: allowing additional time for more in-depth debate on certain strategic decisions, scenarios and alternatives: a greater focus on corporate culture and on management development: and further improvements on the content and timing of certain Board papers.
Board meetings during 2014 Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings Details of Board and Committee attendance during 2014 are set out in the table below.
All directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings.
Board Audit & Risk Corporate Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Ad Hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 1 6 3 7 7 Meetings attended Gareth Davis 10 1 n a 3 7 7 Neil Cooper 10 1 n a n a n a n a 1 David Edmonds 4 2 1 3 2 1 Sir Roy Gardner 7 1 4 2 5 5 Georgina Harvey 10 1 n a 3 7 7 1 James Henderson 5 n a 2 n a n a Ashley Highfield 10 1 6 3 6 n a David Lowden 10 1 6 n a 7 7 1 Ralph Topping 4 n a 1 n a n a Imelda Walsh 10 1 6 3 7 7 Where a director was not in attendance, this was due to other unavoidable commitments.
Directors who were unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting received the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any director who missed a meeting received the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
1 David Edmonds and Ralph Topping retired from the Board on 8 May 2014 and 31 July 2014 respectively.
Sir Roy Gardner and James Henderson were appointed to the Board on 3 March 2014 and 4 July 2014 respectively.
Each attended all Board meetings for the period in which they were a director with the exception that Sir Roy Gardner and Ralph Topping each missed one scheduled Board meeting and Ralph Topping missed one ad hoc Board meeting.
Strategic report 57 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Summary of Board activity during 2014 Engagement with shareholders AGM Each scheduled Board meeting reviews The Board regards the AGM as an important Relations with shareholders individual reports received from the CEO, the opportunity to communicate directly with The Board remains committed to maintaining Group Finance Director, the Director of Group all shareholders.
At the AGM in 2014 the good relationships with both institutional Legal Services and the Company Secretary, Chairman and the Chief Executive took and private shareholders.
There is a regular as well as reviewing progress against the opportunity to summarise William Hills dialogue with institutional shareholders, previously agreed actions and progress performance and achievements in the prior although care is exercised to ensure that against the outcomes of the annual Board year and to provide a business update.
any price sensitive information is released strategy conference.
Board members, including the chairmen at the same time to all shareholders, in Other topics and discussions in Board accordance with the requirements of the UK of the Remuneration, Nomination, Audit and Risk Management, and Corporate meetings held in 2014 included: Listing Authority.
Responsibility Committees, attended the 2014 updates on regulation and taxation.
Presentations provided to institutional AGM meeting and intend to attend the 2015 In particular the Board considered the shareholders and analysts following the AGM to be available to answer questions.
impact of the UK Governments decision publication of the Groups financial results or At the conclusion of the formal AGM, announced in the 2014 Budget to increase in respect of a Capital Markets Day meeting shareholders are provided with an opportunity the rate on Machine Games Duty MGD are made available on the Groups corporate to discuss business matters informally with from 20% to 25%.
Also, the Board website, www.
com, for a period the directors and this provides the directors further considered steps to mitigate the following the meeting.
with a further opportunity to understand and introduction of the Point of Consumption The Chairman is available to discuss strategy respond to the views of the shareholders.
tax POCT : and governance issues with shareholders and In order that shareholders are aware of the approval of a new bank loan agreement, Sir Roy Gardner, as the Senior Independent other shareholders voting intentions, the in respect of a five-year 540m committed Non-executive Director, is available to details of proxy votes for the AGM held in multi-currency revolving credit facility: shareholders if they have concerns that 2014 was made available at the general have not been, or cannot be, addressed in respect of the Australian businesses, meeting and were published to the London through the Chairman, CEO or Group the appointment of Tom Waterhouse as Stock Exchange and made available on Finance Director.
CEO of William Hill Australia.
The Board the Groups website following the meeting.
also agreed the early settlement of an Meetings between the Chairman, CEO and or Each of the resolutions at the AGM held in earn-out in respect of the acquisition the Group Finance Director and shareholders 2014 was passed with the requisite level of tomwaterhouse.
In addition, can be held on request to discuss of approval.
The website also contains the the Board reviewed the branding of the governance and corporate responsibility Notice of General Meeting and explanatory Australian businesses: issues generally.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue.
It is consideration and approval of the Summary of meetings with shareholders intended to continue with these practices for appointments of James Henderson and Sir during the year 2015 and for future shareholder meetings.
It is Roy Gardner: The Group obtains feedback from its brokers, planned to post the Notice of the 2015 AGM Citigroup and Barclays, on the views of the Board periodically reviewed potential to shareholders with the 2014 Annual Report institutional investors on a non-attributable acquisitions in pursuit of its strategy: and Accounts at least 20 working days prior basis and the CEO and or Group Finance to the date of the meeting.
Board evaluation and governance: and Director communicate the issues and The Articles of Association of the Company concerns of major shareholders to the Board.
approval of the annual operating plan As a matter of routine, the Board receives require that any newly appointed director will for 2015. be subject to election at the following AGM regular reports from its advisers on issues Presentations made to the Board included: relating to recent share price performance, and also that directors will submit themselves trading activity and institutional investor for re-election at least once every three years.
regulatory and corporate affairs updates: sentiment.
The Board also receives copies of However, in accordance with the provisions relevant analysts reports on an ad hoc basis of the Code, the Board has agreed that all operations, technology and new propositions for the Retail business: and has the support of an in-house Investor directors should be subject to annual reRelations team.
The Investor Relations team election by shareholders.
Directors may be succession planning and maintains a comprehensive programme of elected or re-elected by passing an ordinary talent management: investor relations events and the Board is resolution at a general meeting.
strategy for social media: informed in advance of the key events within the programme.
During 2014, a focus from risk management: an investor relations perspective was to further acquaint the media and investment corporate development: community with James Henderson, following marketing: and his appointment as the Companys CEO.
58 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 statement on corporate governance Internal control The Board regularly reviews the actual Internal Audit and forecast performance of the business The Board has overall responsibility for The Group Risk & Audit function reviews the compared with the annual plan, as well extent to which systems of internal control are the Groups internal control systems as other key performance indicators and for monitoring their effectiveness.
effective: are adequate to manage the Groups both financial and non-financial.
significant risks: safeguard the Groups Executive directors and senior management Forecast performance is revised during are responsible for the implementation and assets: and, in conjunction with the Company the year as necessary, taking into account Secretary, aim to ensure compliance with maintenance of the internal control systems, performance for the year to date and which are subject to a yearly review that is legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides expected performance going forward.
ongoing independent and objective documented.
The Group Risk & Audit function maintains an assurance framework recording Lines of responsibility and delegated assurance on risks and controls to the Board and senior management.
the key internal controls in every division and authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups department throughout the Group.
policies and procedures are regularly Risk & Audits work is focused on areas of updated and distributed throughout the The Board monitors the ongoing process greatest risk to the Group, as determined by a Group.
The Audit and Risk Management by which critical risks to the business structured risk assessment process involving Committee receives reports on a regular are identified, evaluated and managed.
executive directors and senior management.
basis on compliance with the Groups policies This process is consistent with both the The output from this process is summarised and procedures.
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, and in an annual audit plan, which is reviewed and the revised guidance issued by the Financial No significant failings or weaknesses were approved by the Audit and Risk Management Reporting Council in June 2010, and has identified as a result of the review of the Committee.
A comprehensive annual plan is been in place for the year under review and up effectiveness of the Groups system of prepared, which is reviewed in greater detail to the date of approval of the Annual Report internal control.
on a quarter-by-quarter basis, which also and Accounts.
allows for further refinement as necessary.
Assessment of risk The Director of Risk & Audit and the Head Each year the Board assesses the of Internal Audit report regularly to the Audit effectiveness of the Groups system of internal A corporate risk register is maintained and is and Risk Management Committee on work controls including financial, operational and regularly updated following detailed review by undertaken, the results of audit reviews, the compliance controls and risk management the Group Risk & Audit function and senior actions taken by management in response systems on the basis of: management during the year.
The register to audit reviews, the adequacy of the Internal is approved annually by the Audit and Risk established procedures, including those Audit functions resources and on progress Management Committee and the Board.
already described, which are in place to against the annual audit plan.
The role of the The register records the key risks facing the manage perceived risks: Internal Audit department and the scope of business, the assessment of the likelihood its work continue to evolve, to take account regular reports to the Audit and Risk of the risks crystallising and their potential of changes within the business and emerging Management Committee which inform materiality, and the Groups response to each best practice.
the Committee on the adequacy and risk.
Responsibility for management of the effectiveness of internal control systems risks is attributed to senior management and Going concern and significant control issues: management remain aware of the risks facing the business and operate in a risk aware The directors have prepared the financial the continuous Group-wide process manner.
During 2014 a new appointment statements on a going concern basis for formally identifying, evaluating and was made to the role of Director of Risk & consistent with their view, formed after managing the significant risks to the Audit.
Existing risk management processes making appropriate enquiries, that the achievement of the Groups objectives: have been maintained but the opportunity Group is operationally and financially robust.
reports to the Audit and Risk Management has been taken, following the appointment, More details of the Groups going concern Committee on the results of internal audit to refresh the approach to risk management.
assumption can be found in the financial reviews and work undertaken by other Refreshing the formal risk management statements of this report on pages 95 to 140. departments: and process will help to ensure it continues to mature and embed in the Group.
The Board uses the control and risk The Directors Remuneration Report is set out The Groups internal control systems are management processes to identify and on pages 64 to 82. designed to manage, rather than eliminate, manage any significant risks arising from the risk of failure to achieve the Groups social, environmental and ethical issues.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable, Further details of the Groups corporate and not absolute, assurance against material responsibility practices are described on misstatement or loss.
In assessing what pages 30 to 41. constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board considers the materiality of financial and non-financial risks and the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from, internal control systems.
