Strategic report 51 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 reporT on corporaTe governance Introduction and Statement management of the business and to Director in March 2014, succeeded DavidEdmonds as Senior Independent ofCompliance maintaining the confidence of investors.
We have a defined framework of roles and The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes to William Hills responsibilities in place to support the Boards During 2014 and up to the date of this report, operation.
The Board is responsible for: the Company satisfied the Code requirements performance and the report which follows explains our most important governance that at least half the Board, excluding the development of strategy and major policies: Chairman, should comprise Non-executive processes and how they support the business.
In particular we have applied the reviewing performance: Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
principles of good corporate governance approving interim dividend payments and advocated by the UK Corporate Governance recommending final dividend payments: The proportion of women members of the Code the Code, published by the Financial Board currently stands at 25%.
The Company Reporting Council FRC in September 2012. approval of the annual operating plan, regards each of Sir Roy Gardner, Ashley financial statements, major acquisitions The Code is available from the FRCs website Highfield, David Lowden, Georgina Harvey www.
It is the view of the Board and disposals: and Imelda Walsh as independent Nonthat the Company has been compliant with executive Directors, a matter which is the Groups corporate governance and the principles of the Code during the whole corporate responsibility arrangements: and reviewed annually.
Ashley Highfield was of 2014 with the exception of Code provision appointed in 2008 and during the year the C. 3.7, which recommends that the FTSE the appointment and removal of directors.
Nomination Committee and the Board 350 companies should put the external audit reviewed Ashley Highfields independence contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Board balance and composition against provision B.
2.3. of the Code, which The report from the Audit & Risk Management requires that any term beyond six years As at 30 December 2014, the Board Committee explains the reasons why it has for a Non-executive Director be subject comprised five independent Non-executive been decided not to have undertaken a tender.
to particularly rigorous review and should Directors, the Chairman who was take into account the need for progressive In September 2014, the FRC issued a independent upon his appointment and refreshing of the Board.
The Board continues revised version of the Code which applies two executive directors who are collectively to regard Ashley Highfield as independent.
to accounting periods beginning on or responsible for the long-term success of the Gareth Davis satisfied the independence after 1 October 2014.
During the year the Company.
James Henderson was appointed criteria detailed in provision A.
3.1 of the Board reviewed the revised Code and its to the Board as an executive director on Code upon his appointment as Chairman on amended provisions.
Relevant revisions to our 4 July 2014 and assumed the role of CEO 1 September 2010. governance processes are being made and on 1 August 2014 upon the retirement of we will report against the revised Code in the Ralph Topping.
The Board comprises individuals with wide 2015 Annual Report.
business experience gained in various The roles of Chairman and CEO are separated, clearly defined in writing sectors of industry and in the public sector.
The Board of Directors The directors aim is to ensure that the andapproved by the Board.
David Edmonds was the Senior Independent Non-executive balance of the Board reflects the needs of the The Boards Role Groups business and to ensure a thorough The Board of William Hill remains committed Director until he retired from the Board in May2014.
Sir Roy Gardner, who was consideration of the important issues facing to high standards of corporate governance, William Hill and its performance.
which we consider to be vital to the effective appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Board balance James Henderson Gareth Davis David Lowden Neil Cooper Bookmaking and gaming International regulated business International business and finance Leisure, construction, international and finance Georgina Harvey Imelda Walsh Sir Roy Gardner Ashley Highfield Media and publishing Retail and human resources International business Media and technology
