Strategic report 63 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 reporT oF THe nominaTion commiTTee The Committees principal responsibilities Also during 2014, David Edmonds, a former are to: Non-executive Director and the former Senior Independent Director, completed his nine make appointment recommendations years of service and retired from the Board.
to the Board for the appointment, reThe Zygos Partnership were once again appointment or replacement of directors: appointed by the Committee to conduct devise and consider succession planning the search.
arrangements for directors and, as The searches resulted in the Nomination appropriate, other senior executives: and Committee recommending to the Board the regularly review the structure, skills, size, appointment of James Henderson and Sir Roy Gardner as CEO and as a Non-executive composition and balance of the Board and recommend any proposed changes.
The Board reviewed the nomination and approved each of the Nomination committee has a critical The Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committees recommendations.
reports to the Board on the outcome role in ensuring there of meetings.
During 2014, the Committee also: is an effective process reviewed and proposed a recommendation Non-executive Directors are appointed for an in place for future initial three-year term, extendable by a further to the Board that the terms of office for Board appointments and Georgina Harvey, Ashley Highfield, David two additional three-year terms.
The terms and conditions of appointment of nonLowden and Imelda Walsh be extended succession planning.
The Board agreed executive and service contracts of executive the committee also directors are available to shareholders for with each recommendation and approved ensures that the Board of the extended terms of office: inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at William hill has the right received a presentation from James the AGM.
Blend of skills, experience Henderson as part of the final interview On joining the Board, Non-executive stages, ahead of a recommendation to and knoWledge in Directors receive a formal appointment appoint him as CEO: order to maximise the letter, which identifies the time commitment discussed the conclusions of a progress opportunities for the expected of them.
Once appointed, the new report issued by Lord Davies in respect of director undergoes a tailored induction and success of the company women on boards, noting that the Boards familiarisation programme implemented by gender diversity composition was already in over the longer term.
the Company Secretary with input from the line with the recommendations of the report Chairman and CEO.
Any potential director by Lord Davies see below : Membership and meetings is required to disclose all significant outside commitments prior to appointment and considered and recommended to the Set out below is the membership of the the Board has approved a policy requiring Board that each director be proposed for Nomination Committee together with the year disclosure and approval by the Board of all re-appointment at the 2014 AGM: and in which membership commenced.
additional appointments for executive or reviewed and updated the Committees Year of Non-executive Directors.
Although there were Director appointment terms of reference.
changes in the outside commitments of some Gareth Davis, Chairman 2010 directors during 2014, none of these were Sir Roy Gardner 2014 Board diversity material to the extent that it would impact on Georgina Harvey 2011 the time required to commit to the Company.
The Board supports diversity, recognising the Ashley Highfield 2009 benefits that diverse viewpoints can contribute David Lowden 2011 Main activities during 2014 in decision-making.
It is the intention of the Imelda Walsh 2011 Board always to keep the benefits that derive During 2014, the Nomination Committee from a diverse Board in mind when making played an important part in ensuring that The Company Secretary acts as secretary appointments.
Currently 25% of the Board the leadership of the business remained to the Committee.
All members of the is comprised of women.
We do not believe well positioned for the future.
As reported Committee are independent Non-executive that setting a quota is the most appropriate in the 2013 Annual Report, a process Directors and the Committee is chaired method for achieving a balanced Board had commenced in 2013 to search for a by the Board Chairman.
In order to ensure and all our appointments are made on successor to Ralph Topping, the former Chief therearefully informed discussions, the merit.
We pursue diversity, including gender Executive who retired in 2014.
The Committee CEO and or the Group Human Resources diversity, throughout the business and will appointed The Zygos Partnership, an Director are invited to attend the meeting as continue to follow a policy of appointing external consultancy firm, to conduct the appropriate.
The Committee met on seven talented people at every level to deliver high search and they were responsible for finding occasions during 2014. performance.
We will ensure our development suitable candidates from outside of William in this area is consistent with our own strategic Hill.
The Zygos Partnership has no other Role of the Nomination Committee objectives and is enhancing in terms of connection with the Company.
In addition, an Board effectiveness.
A full copy of the terms of reference for the internal search process was managed by the Committee can be obtained via the website Gareth Davis Nomination Committee and ran in parallel with Chairman, Nomination Committee at www.
com or by request to the the external search.
