Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 32 Relationships OUR COLLEAGUES AND PARTNERS A key priority is to ensure that everyone who works with, or at, Morrisons is well looked after.
OUR people RELATIONSHIPS highlights Our people are at the forefront of everything we do.
Having the right people is a key differentiator, allowing us to deliver excellent customer service and meet our strategic objectives.
We are proud to have won Grocer Gold Employer of the Year for the fourth time in a row.
88.05% 93% We have four key people priorities: 1 Employee stability Percentage of colleagues 1.
Putting the right people in the right place at the right time to support 1.85% improvement who participated in the our customers needs: compared to last year engagement surveys 2013: 86.2% 2013: 94% 2.
Engaging our colleagues to make sure that we have people who really share our aspirations for great customer service: 3.
Facilitating our leaders to be the best they can be, strengthening our leadership capability at all levels: and 4.
Providing clarity as to what a great job looks like at Morrisons.
1,292 115,125 Participants in annual People progressing from the 1.
RIGHT PEOPLE, right place, right time colleague opinion survey shop floor to more senior 2 positions in 2013 14 RECRUITMENT 2013: 121,000 2013: 1,205 We pride ourselves on finding the right person for the job, whether thats Source: external recruitment from the local market which benefits the local area 1 Total number of active colleagues with one or more years service divided by the or candidates from within our business.
Throughout 2013 14, 1,292 people total number of active colleagues one year earlier.
2 12 months to 31 January 2014. were promoted from the shop floor to a more senior position.
In addition, over 2,000 existing colleagues moved to work within our multichannel business.
DEVELOPING CRAFT SKILLS AWARDS 2013 14 This year we continued to enhance our colleagues skills and further established our Market Street and fresh food credentials.
Morrisons Academy won a Big Tick Award at the Responsible Business Awards in the Workplace Talent and Skills category.
The award shows we are continuing to achieve excellence as we work towards making Morrisons an employer of choice for craft skills.
Our training included the following: Masterclasses: these helped department managers and supervisors to appreciate seasonality, sustainability and most importantly how to cook and taste the lines we sell in a touch, feel, taste, experience: Mastercraft: our annual competition for colleagues tests the specialist knowledge and practical skills of colleagues in our eight craft trades butchers, bakers, fishmongers, cheesemongers, wine advisers, florists, cake shop and produce: Qualifications: we trained 232 colleagues in Bakery and Butchery Craft Level 2 and 1,923 colleagues in Retail Customer Service Levels 2 and 3.
We also currently have 21 colleagues undertaking Engineering Levels 2 and 3: and Continuous training: in Fresh Format stores, colleagues attended the food and wine matching sessions and bouquet training.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 33 2.
COLLEAGUE engagement We have refreshed and revitalised our health and wellbeing agenda to address the evolving business and colleague needs.
Our strategy has been to integrate programmes within existing activities in order to THE MORRISONS WAY support optimum colleague engagement.
The Morrisons Way was developed in 2012, to translate our values into actions.
We have identified behaviours that make us successful today PENSION alongside those that help us to be fit for the future, focusing on how we In the year we launched our industry-leading Retirement saver plan to do what we do: help our colleagues save for their retirement.
Our engagement doesnt Honest: We tell it like it is: finish when colleagues retire, we continue to support them and keep in Edge: We show grit and determination: touch through our M Plus scheme.
Ambition: We create and seize opportunities: Respectful: We care for each other: everyone counts: 3.
LEADERSHIP development Trusting: We achieve more together: and Our apprenticeship programme is vital in transforming our colleagues Service: We serve and delight our customers.
into skilled butchers, bakers and fishmongers and we are proud to have BUILDING A HEALTHY, HIGH PERFORMING CULTURE been named in the City & Guilds Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer list.
The financial year 2013 14 was a significant year for Morrisons as Alongside our apprenticeship programme, we inducted our largest ever we worked hard to do more of what matters for our colleagues and cohort of graduates.
We currently have 142 graduates in our programme customers.
We reduced the frequency of our engagement surveys and they are very much seen as future leaders of our business.
They have to provide more time for teams to build meaningful action plans.
the great opportunity to spend time within different parts of the business Every senior manager was challenged with building a local action plan to and build up a great breadth of experience from undertaking hands-on address any issues raised by the team.
During the period we completed roles through to supporting Board members projects.
our annual Climate survey and two Pulse surveys.
The integrity of our We also continue to build our talent pipeline from within, through survey was reinforced with a consistently high response rate of over 90%.
our accelerated development programme for future business leaders.
Our measure of engagement, the Colleague Engagement Index CEI This programme supports individuals to identify their motivations, career remained high at 72%.
ambitions, strengths and development areas.
Measuring engagement in Morrisons Next year we will continue to invest in leadership across the business Next year, were introducing a more robust measure of engagement but particularly in stores where our store managers are the front line for which focuses on three key elements: the changes we are making to systems, processes and end-to-end ways of working.
SAY I am proud to work for Morrisons.
I would recommend Morrisons as Colleague a great place to work.
engagement index CEI STAY I would like to be working with Morrisons a year from now.
I have a strong sense of belonging with Morrisons.
STRIVE Working at Morrisons makes me want to do the best work I can.
Morrisons motivates me to contribute more than is normally required.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND DIVERSITY We pride ourselves on being a diverse and respectful organisation.
We respect the human rights of any individual or community in which we work and are committed to providing a workplace founded on Our Mastercraft mutual respect, free from harassment and offering equal opportunity for promotion and advancement.
During 2014, Morrisons employed 55,627 men and 68,986 women.
In addition, 98 of our senior managers competition and five of our Board directors were men, while 21 of our senior managers and two of our Board directors were women.
celebrates colleagues HEALTH AND WELLBEING We understand the importance to our colleagues and their families achievements.
of a healthy lifestyle and positive work-life balance.
Healthy and high performing colleagues are the most valuable asset of any company and we believe that good health is good business.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 34 Relationships OUR COLLEAGUES AND PARTNERS CONTINUED Left: Code Adjudicator GCA, Christine Tacon CBE, and her team based at Our HOT service the Competition Commission, attending meetings and providing written promotes a warm, information as requested.
friendly and natural service for During our financial year 2013 14 we have successfully worked with our customers.
suppliers to resolve the majority of complaints that have arisen with reference to the provisions of the Code.
Details of such complaints are reported to the Office of Fair Trading and the GCAs Office in accordance with the GSCOP.
In summary, 19 new complaints were made by suppliers to our CCO and two were carried over from the previous financial year.
In total, 17 of those were withdrawn or resolved directly with the relevant supplier during the course of the year.
The remaining matters remained ongoing at the year end but discussions continued into our next financial year.
SUPPLIERS OF SERVICES Agreement with Ocado In July 2013 we entered into a 25 year agreement with Ocado to 4.
WHAT GOOD looks like provide fulfilment and distribution services to our online food business.
Through the partnership, we benefit from shared operational costs This year we have developed our performance management process in respect of our Dordon facility, as well as the less tangible synergies and focused on teaching our managers to deliver effective performance obtained by working with like-minded partners with complementary reviews.
We linked the Morrisons Way behaviours to the review skills and expertise.
The agreement gives us access to industry-leading process and have linked pay much more closely to performance across technology and we benefit from Ocados experience.
Outsourcing agreement with WIPRO We also continued our HOT Hello, Offer, Thank service training and Consistent with other major businesses and many UK retailers, its sound we measure each store on HOT service scores weekly, sharing examples business practice to ensure that transactional processes are delivered as of great service through newsletters and our company-wide magazine.
efficiently and effectively as possible.
Morrisons has extended its existing relationship with WIPRO to provide economies of scale while maintaining the current high quality service.
OUR community We dont want to be a faceless retailer just selling food.
Developing new and often more significant presence in postcodes across the UK means we must effectively embed each store into the heart of its local community by giving back and creating greater social benefit.
We have a community board and a community champion at each store who interact with and help to benefit our local communities.
Our Lets Grow programme was re-accredited with a Big Tick Award in the education category for continuing to build sustainable partnerships with schools.
OUR suppliers SUPPLIERS OF GOODS We believe that long-standing relationships are good for business and we seek to develop these through open and honest communication.
We have launched a new M Partners scheme to enable us to work more closely with suppliers to improve our customer proposition.
Since the start GROCERIES SUPPLY CODE OF PRACTICE The Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP applies to all grocery of our Lets Grow retailers with an annual turnover in excess of 1bn.
programme we have Over the last year we have built on our initial work by undertaking a full re-training programme for all supplier-facing relevant colleagues.
We also given away over 18m had our supporting processes reviewed during the year by our Internal Audit team.
Enquiries were dealt with in accordance with the regulations of equipment.
and escalated internally to GSCOP Senior Buyers and our appointed Code Compliance Officer CCO where required.
Complaints are reported to our Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee for governance and oversight.
We have engaged with the newly appointed Groceries
