Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 47 Corporate governance report CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT INTRODUCTION FROM SIR IAN GIBSON On behalf of the Board I am pleased to introduce Morrisons Corporate governance report.
The Board is committed to developing and enhancing policies and structures that maintain high standards of corporate governance as well as to being a responsible employer and member of the communities in which Morrisons operates.
The Board believes that how the business does something is just as important as what it does.
Morrisons has long held values which are embodied in the behaviours underpinning the Morrisons Way, described on page 33.
To further emphasise this, Morrisons has now rolled out a formal performance review process which takes into account both what colleagues do and how they do it.
These values, which are recognised across the business, are included in our training for all new employees and are integral to us achieving our strategic goals.
The Board engages with the business at operational level as well as Good governance in oversight in stores, factories and distribution centres and meets frequently with management below senior levels.
This year has been a is the cornerstone hugely demanding one for Morrisons but I have still had the pleasure to meet many Morrisons colleagues, all striving to provide great service, and have taken the opportunity to hear their excitement and their concerns of the boards about the months and years ahead.
Board composition and effectiveness Sir Ian Gibson After some planned changes in the composition of the Board and the Chairman Management Board, I am delighted to see this strengthened team working well together to guide the Group through a period of change.
The Board has reviewed its effectiveness this year with the help of an external facilitator, the results of which are discussed on page 53.
I am satisfied that the Board is independent and contains an appropriate mixture of skills and experience.
We recognise the importance of a leadership team with diverse backgrounds and skills and I am pleased to welcome our new members to the Board and the Management Board, further enhancing the mixture of skills and experience available to Morrisons.
This is a good step towards increasing diversity across our colleague base.
The Board and its committees are admirably supported by a strong management team, who provide us with the relevant and timely information necessary for effective governance.
We received a wide range of presentations and in-depth analysis on subjects ranging from the structural challenges COMPLIANCE STATEMENT facing supermarkets through to colleague engagement.
The full compliance statement The financial year 2014 15 will be another year of unprecedented activity can be found at: for Morrisons.
Now more than ever, I and my fellow Board members www.
com are committed to good corporate governance to assist the Group with efficient implementation of its strategy.
Sir Ian Gibson Chairman Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 48 Corporate governance report CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS N R C N C Sir Ian Gibson CBE Dalton Philips Trevor Strain Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Sir Ian joined the Group as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Dalton joined the Group as Chief Executive in March 2010.
Trevor joined the Group in June 2009 as Commercial and in September 2007.
He was appointed Chairman in March He is a member of the Boards Nomination Committee and Operations Finance Director.
In June 2011 he became Finance 2008.
Sir Ian is Chair of the Boards Nomination Committee Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Prior to Director Corporate and took responsibility for the Companys and a member of its Remuneration Committee and joining Morrisons, Dalton was Chief Operating Officer of productivity programmes.
Trevor joined the Board as Chief Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
He is Loblaw Companies Limited, Canadas largest food distributor Financial Officer on 10 April 2013.
Prior to joining Morrisons a Non-Executive Member of the Public Interest Body of the and a leading provider of general merchandise.
Prior to that he worked for Tesco in a number of roles until his appointment UK firm of  LLP.
Previous Board position, he was Chief Executive of Irish department store as UK Property Finance Director in 2006 and subsequently appointments include Non-Executive Chairman of group, Brown Thomas.
Between 1998 and 2005 he worked for UK Planning and Reporting Finance Director.
Trevor began his Trinity Mirror Plc, Chairman of BPB Plc, Deputy Chairman Walmarts international divisions latterly as Chief Operating career with Arthur Andersen and is a member of the Institute of Asda Group Plc, and a Director of Chelys Limited, GKN Plc, Officer in Germany.
Dalton started his career with Jardine of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Greggs Plc and Northern Rock Plc.
He is also a former Matheson working in New Zealand and Spain.
Dalton is a member of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir Ian enjoyed Non-Executive Director at the Department for Business, a distinguished 30 year career in the motor industry, most Innovation and Skills.
recently as President of Nissan Europe.
N R A N R C A Philip Cox CBE Senior Independent Director and Richard Gillingwater CBE Chair of Audit Committee Non-Executive Director Philip joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in Richard joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in March April 2009.
He was appointed as the Senior Independent 2013.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Director in May 2013.
He is Chair of the Audit Committee and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committees.
and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Richard is currently the Chairman of Henderson Group Plc and Committees.
Philip is a Non-Executive Director of Meggitt the Senior Independent Director of Hiscox Ltd, Helical Bar Plc Plc and PPL Corporation.
He was a Non-Executive Director and SSE Plc.
He is a Trustee of the British Council, and a member at Wincanton Plc from 2001 to 2009, having chaired their of the advisory boards of TheCityUK and of the Association Audit Committee from 2001 to 2008 and was Chair of of Corporate Treasurers.
He was previously the Dean of Cass their Remuneration Committee from 2008.
His previous Business School, CEO and then Chairman of the Shareholder Board positions were as Chief Financial Officer and then Executive and Joint Head of Global Corporate Finance at BZW.
Chief Executive Officer of International Power Plc and He has been the Chairman of CDC Group and a Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer at Siebe Plc.
Director of P&O, Debenhams, Tomkins, Qinetiq Group and Kidde.
N R C A N R C A Penny Hughes CBE Chair of the Corporate Johanna Waterous CBE Compliance and Chair of the Responsibility Committee Remuneration Committee COMMITTEE KEY Nomination Committee N Penny joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in Johanna joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in Remuneration Committee R January 2010.
She is Chair of the Corporate Compliance February 2010.
She is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Responsibility Committee and a member of the and a member of the Audit, Nomination and Corporate Corporate Compliance and Responsibility C Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She is currently Audit Committee A Penny is currently a Non-Executive Director of The Royal the Senior Independent Director of RSA Group Plc and Bank of Scotland Plc, where she will move from Chair of the of Rexam Plc and a Non-Executive Director of Shoppers Remuneration Committee to Chair of the Sustainability Drugmart in Canada.
Her previous experience includes 22 Committee in June 2014.
She is also a trustee of the British years with McKinsey & Co. London, as Head of the Retail Museum.
Pennys previous experience includes ten years Practice in Europe and latterly as Co-Leader of the firms with Coca-Cola GB and Ireland and various non-executive Global Marketing & Sales Practice.
Johanna is a Trustee of roles including Body Shop International Plc, GAP Inc, Reuters the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Foundation and of Kew Plc, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Trinity Mirror Plc, Enterprises Ltd.
Previous board roles include Chairman of Vodafone Plc, Home Retail Group Plc and Cable and Wireless Tate Enterprises, from 1998 to 2006.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 49 MANAGEMENT BOARD Mark Amsden Neal Austin Nick Collard Group General Counsel Group Logistics and Group Marketing and Company Secretary Supply Chain Director and Customer Director Dalton Philips Mark is a qualified lawyer who joined the Neal joined the Management Board in Nick joined the Management Board as Group Group and the Management Board in October 2010 and is responsible for logistics Marketing and Customer Director in 2013 Chief Executive February 2013.
Prior to his arrival, Mark and supply chain.
He also has a responsibility following two years as Commercial Director, spent 25 years with a number of law firms.
He joined Morrisons in Ambient.
He began his career in 1994 with Trevor Strain Between 1998 and 2013 he was a partner October 2006 from MFI, where, as Logistics J. Sainsbury Plc as a Trading graduate before Chief Financial Officer in the leading national law firm Addleshaw holding a number of senior Trading and Director, he was involved in the sale of the Goddard LLP previously Addleshaw Booth Marketing positions at Mars, LOreal and retail business to private equity.
& Co, where he specialised in commercial Boots where he was appointed Commercial his career in 1989 with Tesco as a graduate litigation and was Head of the National IT Director, Beauty followed by Brand Director.
trainee in the buying division, where he Litigation team.
Marks clients included many undertook a number of buying and marketing of the UKs leading companies, including roles, progressing to senior wine buyer.
He then took a role with Asda as a senior buyer and progressed through the supply chain in a number of roles before being appointed Supply Director.
Mark Harrison Terry Hartwell Martyn Jones Martyn Fletcher Group Manufacturing Group Property Group Corporate Group Retail Director Director Director Services Director Martyn became a member of the Mark joined the Management Board in Terry was appointed to the Management Martyn was appointed to the Management Management Board in October 2010 and October 2010 and was appointed Group Board in October 2010 after joining the Board in October 2010 as Group Corporate in September 2013 was appointed Group Manufacturing Director in September Group in May 2009 as Group Property Services Director, and is responsible for Retail Director.
He is responsible for the Groups Director.
Prior to joining Morrisons, Terry was policy and technical standards.
He joined retail operations, central retail operations, manufacturing operations and is CEO of Group Property Director for the worldwide Morrisons in 1990 and has held various retail fuel, and other retail related projects.
Woodheads, Farmers Boy, Wm Morrisons operations at Kingfisher Plc.
He spent 25 roles including Grocery Director and Senior He joined the Group in 1985 and has held Produce, Rathbones, Simply Fresh and years with Kingfisher Plc and, during that Trading Director.
He spent three years on a number of roles within stores and in Flowerworld.
He joined the Group in 1980 time, held a number of senior property the Board as Group Trading Director before head office.
In 1988, he was appointed as a management trainee and quickly positions, including a spell in front line changing role in 2010 to Group Corporate as Purchasing Manager and promoted to progressed to Store General Manager.
After a operations, running the new depot division Services Director.
Prior to joining Morrisons, Purchasing Director in 1995.
In 2002, he successful career in store management, he in the mid 1990s.
He is a Chartered Surveyor he spent eight years with J. Sainsbury Plc was appointed as Production Director, held progressively senior positions of regional with experience in all aspects of commercial before moving into manufacturing with responsible for the food manufacturing management between 1996 and 2004. property development, retail acquisition and RHM Plc and then Campbells, gaining wide operation, before being appointed as Group In 2004 he became Stores Director and in property management.
buying, marketing and product development Manufacturing Director in 2007.
2011 was appointed Group Retail Director.
experience in fresh and frozen foods.
Emily Lawson Nigel Robertson Group Human Casper Meijer CEO Morrisons Resource Director Group Trading Director Non-food E-commerce Emily joined Morrisons in September 2013 Casper joined Morrisons in March 2013 as Nigel became a member of the Management as Group HR Director.
Prior to her arrival Group Trading Director.
Prior to his arrival, he Board in March 2013 and is responsible she was partner at McKinsey and Company, was Executive VP for Merchandising for the for non-food e-commerce, including the where she led the human capital practice, Dutch Supermarket Albert Heijn, part of the Kiddicare baby superstore.
Nigel joined the working on issues of company and individual Ahold Group.
Casper has held various roles Group as a Non-Executive Director in July effectiveness, organisational design, at Ahold since 1999, including five years in 2005 and was Senior Independent Director company culture and talent management.
the USA at Giant Food Stores a subsidiary of between March 2011 and March 2013.
She also led McKinseys research on gender Ahold.
Prior joining Ahold he spent 12 years Until April 2013, he was the Group Chief diversity in organisations.
Prior to McKinsey at Unilever in various European brand and Executive of Health and Surgical Holdings Emily completed an MBA at Said Business marketing roles.
Until the business was sold in School, Oxford, and was manager of 2007 he was the Chief Executive Officer of technology and business development in a Chelsea Stores Holdings Limited and he was biotech startup.
previously the Managing Director of Ocado, the online grocery shopping business set up in partnership with Waitrose.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 50 Corporate governance report CONTINUED COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Investor Relations Director The Board is confident that its corporate governance policies and also carries out a regular programme of work that reports to the Board procedures are appropriate and that the Group has been fully compliant the views and information needs of institutional and major investors.
with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout The Chair of the Remuneration Committee meets investors specifically 2013 14 and to the date of this Annual report.
This is part of the regular contact that the The Financial Reporting Council FRC issued a revised version of the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
Code, which is effective for the first time to the Groups 2013 14 financial The Chairman regularly meets with major shareholders and he actively year.
The Code is available on the FRCs website www.
encourages major shareholders to contact him if they wish to discuss any The Boards Corporate governance compliance statement sets out aspect of the Group or its governance arrangements with him.
how the Group complies with each of the provisions of the Code and Additionally, the Groups brokers sought independent feedback from is available in the investor relations section of the Groups website, investors following the 2012 13 annual and 2013 14 interim results.
That document also sets out the This feedback was reported to the Board.
The information obtained by the division of responsibilities in detail between the Chairman and the Chief Chairman, Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer is shared with Executive, the full list of matters reserved for the Board, the membership the Non-Executive Directors as a matter of course at Board meetings.
of the Board and the various Board committees, together with the terms of reference of the various standing Board committees.
All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, attend the AGM unless unavoidably unable to do so.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Governance material included in this Annual report Page The notice of the 2014 AGM of the Company to be held at the In this Corporate governance report, which forms Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in Bradford on 5 June 2014 is to part of the Directors report be sent to shareholders with an accompanying explanatory letter from the Chairman.
The Directors believe each of the resolutions is in the Chairmans governance statement 47 best interests of the Group to be proposed at the AGM and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of each of them.
Shareholders will also Directors biographies 4849 receive notification of the availability of the Annual report and financial statements on the Groups website, unless they have positively elected to Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 50 receive a printed version of the Annual report and financial statements.
Relations with shareholders 50 Leadership 51 Effectiveness 53 Nomination Committee report 54 Accountability 54 Audit Committee report 55 Elsewhere in this Annual report Remuneration Committee report 59, 72 Directors statement that the Annual report is fair, balanced and understandable 75 Description of Morrisons Business model part of the Strategic report 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 51 LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES CHAIRMAN Key objective Governance of the Board PLC BOARD Key objectives Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting Management Audit Corporate Compliance Remuneration Nominations Board Committee and Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Implementation of strategy Effective governance of Advice to the Board on Board Development and Development and and senior management and actions in respect of financial reporting, internal implementation of policy implementation of the appointments and succession financial planning and controls and risk management on corporate compliance: Groups remuneration planning: monitoring of the performance: day-to-day systems: review of significant review and challenge of framework and policies for composition of the Board management of operations.
accounting judgements, compliance with policies, Directors and colleagues and its committees.
assumptions and estimates: procedures, ethical and including all incentives, management of the governance standards.
relationship and appointment of the external auditor: monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
PLC BOARD On 10 April 2013, the outgoing Group Finance Director, Richard Pennycook, retired from the Board.
On 13 March 2013, Nigel Robertson stood down 1 Members Sir Ian Gibson, Dalton Philips, as Non-Executive Director and was appointed to the Management Board.
2 3 Trevor Strain, Philip Cox, Richard Gillingwater, Throughout the year, the majority of the Board consisted of independent Penny Hughes, Johanna Waterous Non-Executive Directors.
Key objective Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting.
Board responsibilities Responsibilities Development and approval of the strategy The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains unaltered and key policies of the Group: from 2012 13.
Management of culture and values: The full list is available in the Corporate governance compliance Monitoring of progress towards achieving all statement set out in the investor relations section of the Groups website, Board objectives: www.
com Monitoring of financial performance, critical operational issues and risks by reviewing of The decisions delegated by the Board to its committees are described performance against strategy, objectives, business within each Committees report below.
plans and budgets: There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Regular review and formal approval of the Groups the Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing and agreed by the risk register: Board.
The significant commitments outside Morrisons of the Chairman, Approval of all communications to shareholders, Sir Ian Gibson, have not changed during the financial year 2013 14. including the Annual report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report and interim management statements: Approval of changes to the Groups capital structure, external financial reports, major expenditure: and Membership of the Board on recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
1 All Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 52 Corporate governance report CONTINUED Senior Independent Director MANAGEMENT BOARD Philip Cox has been the Boards Senior Independent Director since May 1 Members 2013.
Prior to this, the post was held by Nigel Robertson.
Philip has been Dalton Philips, Trevor Strain, Mark Amsden, Neal 2 Austin, Nick Collard, Martyn Fletcher, Mark a Non-Executive Director of Morrisons since April 2009 and has acquired Harrison, Terry Hartwell, Martyn Jones, Emily extensive knowledge of the Groups business and its activities.
The Senior 3 4 4 Lawson, Casper Meijer, Nigel Robertson Independent Director provides shareholders with an alternative contact to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Key objectives Implementation of strategy and actions in respect Philip also coordinated the review of the performance of the Chairman by of financial planning and performance: day-to-day the Non-Executive Directors, which was concluded in January 2014. management of operations.
Responsibilities Development and implementation of strategy: Board activities in 2013 14 The Boards focus in this financial year was: Oversight of: financial performance, reporting and control: review of results and forecasts and approval of regulatory announcements: risk management: advice regarding, and approval of, the nature and substance operational improvement programmes: and of the agreement with Ocado to operate food online: the Groups entry into contracts the conduct of the business in accordance with its values: and commitments.
review of the development of online business and convenience Development of corporate policies and procedures: stores.
Review of recommendations from the Nomination Committee Review and supervision of operational activities: in respect of changes to the Board structure: Making recommendations to the Board in review of the governance structure and activities of the respect of: subcommittees of the Board: budgets and long term plans: review of the annual business plan and monthly updates from the Management Board regarding its delivery: and dividend levels: and review of the 2014 15 budget and commercial plans regarding our core ad-hoc events.
supermarkets including productivity savings required to invest in the Succession planning for senior management.
Attendance at meetings 3 Appointed September 2013.
Board Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR Management Board activities in 2013 14 The Management Boards focus in this financial year was: Sir Ian Gibson 10 10 4 4 9 9 4 4 review of the Groups weekly and periodic trading results and Dalton Philips 10 10 4 4 4 4 market conditions: 1 Trevor Strain 8 8 response to trading results via implementation and adaptation of the Philip Cox 10 10 4 4 9 9 6 6 commercial strategy, including promotional strategy: 2 Richard Gillingwater 9 9 3 3 8 8 4 5 3 3 efficient implementation of the food online offer in order to hit target Penny Hughes 10 10 4 4 9 9 6 6 4 4 launch date: Johanna Waterous 10 10 4 4 9 9 6 6 4 4 the roll out of our Morrisons M local convenience stores network 3 Nigel Robertson 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 1 1 including acquisition of appropriate sites: 4 Richard Pennycook 2 2 review of customer proposition and relaunch of our own brand products: 1 Appointed 10 April 2013.
2 Appointed 1 March 2013. oversight of delivery of major systems upgrades and change, including 3 Stepped down from the Board and its committees on 13 March 2013.
4 preparatory work for a major roll-out in 2014 15 in key business areas Stepped down from the Board on 10 April 2013. including stock: approval of capital budgets: review of functional risk registers and determination of principal risks for the Group: colleague engagement: and the conduct and management of the business in accordance with its values.
The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of insurance cover for all Directors to defend themselves against legal claims and civil actions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 53 CORPORATE COMPLIANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY All Directors are provided with a comprehensive, formal and tailored CCR COMMITTEE induction to the business.
The minimum time commitment expected of the Non-Executive Directors is one day per month attendance at Members Penny Hughes Chair, Sir Ian Gibson, Dalton Philips, meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, Board away days and 1 Mark Amsden, Richard Gillingwater, Martyn Jones, site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
The Board is satisfied that each Richard Taylor, Johanna Waterous.
of the Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Group and contributes to the governance and operations of the Key objectives Development and implementation of policy on Group.
This has been confirmed by the Board effectiveness evaluation corporate compliance: review and challenge of referred to later in this report.
compliance with policies, procedures, ethical and governance standards.
The Chairman arranges regular discussions between all the NonResponsibilities Oversight of the development and implementation Executive Directors including himself as a group.
During the year, the of policy in relation to: Non-Executive Directors met five times without management present to discuss the performance of the business and management, and the health and safety: wider economic, commercial and social environment in which the Group environmental, competitive and operates.
These are not part of a strict timetable, but take place roughly ethical compliance: at or around every alternate Board meeting.
corporate responsibility: and BOARD REVIEW governance and reputation.
The Board arranges for its own performance, and that of its committees 1 Appointed March 2013. and Directors, to be reviewed annually.
CCR activities in 2013 14 In 2013 14, the Boards effectiveness, and that of its committees, was The Committees focus in this financial year was: assessed with the help of an external agency, Boardroom Review.
review of health and safety incidents and actions taken and launch of The agency has no connection to Morrisons except for this appointment new health and safety initiatives: as external facilitator.
Effectiveness was assessed in three key areas: review of ethical trading: Board environment: review of GSCOP compliance including training and results of the work of the Board, including the approach to control, risk and to internal reviews: performance management and shareholder communication: and following the widespread discovery of horse meat within products sold maximising its use of time.
by competitors in the industry, a review of specific, related processes The process was conducted via focused one-to-one interviews with the within the Group, review of results of tests commissioned and Directors and attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
The review recommendations for enhancement of systems and processes: and concluded that the Board was effective, well informed and active, worked review of non-financial whistle-blowing reports.
well as a team, and provided appropriate but supportive challenge to REMUNERATION COMMITTEE management as befits an effective Board.
The review identified some The CCR Committees full terms of reference can be found at areas in which the Boards performance could be further enhanced, in www.
particular in allowing for Non-Executive Directors to pass on the benefit of their experience to the newer members of the Management Board.
The report from the Remuneration Committee is given within the Annual As a result, in the future the Board will find the time to pass on that statement on page 59 and the Committee and its advisers on page 72. experience on a one-on-one basis.
The Board will also look to have fewer Board meetings, but more two day EFFECTIVENESS meetings as the business moves into its multi-channel including online and convenience strategy.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The performance of the Chairman is evaluated annually by the Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a varied range of skills and experience Appraisals of the Non-Executive Directors performance are conducted to the Group.
Details of their experience outside the Group are set out in by the Chairman following discussion with Board members.
their respective biographies on page 48.
Executive Directors are included in the Groups performance appraisal The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors, including the process, which includes setting clear and measurable objectives Non-Executive Chairman, remain independent according to the definition and reviewing performance against those objectives on a bi-annual contained in the Code.
The criteria used to determine independence basis.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are responsible for are set out in the Corporate governance compliance statement, which monitoring and reviewing the performance of the Chief Executive, can be found in the investor relations section of the Groups website, who in turn is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Chief www.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 54 Corporate governance report CONTINUED MEMBERSHIP The Committee also monitored and contributed to the search and selection process for: During the course of this and the preceding financial year, the Board and the Management Board have been refreshed via a number of Group Trading Director: Casper Meijer, appointed to the Management appointments described below.
As a result, the Nomination Committee Board in March 2013: considers that the Board and Management Board contain the skills and Group Marketing and Customer Director: Nick Collard, appointed experience necessary in the light of the Groups current activities and May 2013: strategic direction.
Group Human Resources Director: Emily Lawson, appointed to the Management Board in September 2013: and RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All the Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held Non-food E-commerce: Nigel Robertson, appointed to the Management Board in March 2013. on 5 June 2014.
After reviewing the outcome of performance evaluation, the Board confirms that the contributions made by the Directors offering The Committee also spent time reviewing succession planning for both themselves for re-election at the AGM in June 2014 continue to be the Board and Management Board as well as of the talent pool for levels effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
Board diversity DIRECTORS INTERESTS The Board currently includes two women members, 25% of its total The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the composition.
The Boards policy is that female representation should Company and their immediate families in the shares of the Company, be maintained at not less than 20% and aspires that this should be along with share options, are contained in the Directors remuneration higher than 30%.
This policy will continue to be considered as part of report set out on pages 59 to 72.
At no time during the year did any of the Nomination Committees regular review of the Boards composition the Directors have a material interest in any significant contract with the and skills.
Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Board believes that the Group benefits from a highly qualified and diverse workforce.
The Group has recruitment and promotion policies NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT that support appointments based on merit and encourage candidates with a wide range of backgrounds and experience.
Over the next year, diversity across the Group will be an area of focus.
Members Sir Ian Gibson Chair, Dalton Philips, 1 Philip Cox, Penny Hughes, Richard Gillingwater, Johanna Waterous.
ACCOUNTABILITY Key objectives Advice to the Board on Board and senior management appointments and succession planning: MATTERS DEALT WITH ELSEWHERE IN THE monitoring of the composition of the Board and STRATEGIC REPORT its committees.
The way that the Group generates value and the Boards strategy for delivering the Groups objectives are described in the Business model Responsibilities Evaluating the current and required mixture of skills on page 12, and the Strategy section on pages 18 to 29. and experience on the Board: and Sourcing and selecting candidates.
The Directors statement regarding the Annual report and whether it is fair, balanced and understandable is on page 75.
The Nomination Committees full terms of reference are available at INTERNAL CONTROL www.
com, which includes the Committees policy The Board is responsible for setting a system of internal control, including on the appointment of Board members.
In summary, the Committee financial, operational and compliance controls, and for reviewing its makes an assessment of the skills of outgoing and remaining Board effectiveness.
The Board delegates this latter responsibility to the members to assess any gaps and develop a candidate profile.
uses external search consultancies to source suitable candidates.
This system is intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not meeting the Groups strategic objectives: certain inherent risks may be Nomination Committees activities in 2013 14 During 2013 14, the Committee sourced and selected Richard outside the Groups control.
Gillingwater to fill the Non-Executive Director role.
The Committee also recommended his appointment to committees of the Board.
The Committee used an external search agency, MWM Consulting, in identifying Richard Gillingwater as the successful candidate.
This agency has no connection to the Group other than its provision of recruitment services.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 55 GOING CONCERN THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Directors assessment of the Group and the Companys ability to The Audit Committees full terms of reference can be found at continue as a going concern is based on cash flow forecasts for the www.
In 2014 15, the terms of reference will Group and the committed borrowing and debt facilities of the Group.
be amended in response to the Boards request for advice as to whether These forecasts include consideration of future trading performance, the Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
working capital requirements, retail market conditions and the OVERVIEW OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT wider economy.
COMMITTEE IN DISCHARGING ITS DUTIES The Group remains able to borrow cash at competitive rates, as Meetings evidenced by the issue of a 700m Euro bond in June 2013.
The Group The Committee met six times during 2013 14.
In these meetings, the has negotiated, and has available to it, committed, competitive facilities Committee concentrated on the appropriateness of the Groups Annual that will meet the Groups needs in the short and medium term.
Report and financial statements and Half-yearly report, as well as its review of the effectiveness of the internal controls and the work of the The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been set out Internal Audit function, as described below.
The Committee also spent on pages 40 to 42, along with how the Directors mitigate these risks significant time discussing systems design and implementation and the in the current economic climate.
After reviewing the Groups financial related project management.
This is an area of significant change for the forecasts, the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group Groups financial reporting systems and processes, which affects the have adequate financial resources available to continue in operational delivery of strategic initiatives.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the going concern basis is adopted in the preparation of these financial statements.
In respect of financial reports, the Committees focus was: the accounting judgements made by management that could have a significant effect on the Groups financial results, including those AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT relating to the Ocado agreement: oversight of IT changes affecting financial systems and controls: Members Philip Cox Chair, Richard Gillingwater, the clarity of disclosure of financial information: and Penny Hughes, Johanna Waterous.
whether the Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Key objectives Effective governance of financial reporting, internal and understandable.
controls and risk management systems: review of significant accounting judgements, assumptions and estimates: management of the relationship and appointment of the external auditor: monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
Responsibilities The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility for reviewing on its behalf and making recommendations to the Board as to: the integrity of financial reports, including reviewing significant financial reporting issues and considering how these issues have been addressed: whether the Annual report is fair, balanced and understandable: the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management system: the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: and the independence and appointment of the external auditor and approval of their fees.
The Board is satisfied that Philip Cox has recent and relevant financial experience appropriate to his position as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Philip is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 56 Corporate governance report CONTINUED OVERVIEW OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN DISCHARGING ITS DUTIES CONTINUED In particular, the Audit Committee discussed the following financial reporting matters: Matter considered Action taken IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND The Audit Committee discussed with management the judgements and PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, AND assumptions underpinning the annual reviews and in-depth reappraisal.
ONEROUS PROPERTY COMMITMENTS In particular, the Committee debated the quantum of losses relating to The Group has conducted an impairment review which includes impairment and onerous contracts as described in note 1.4 that have non-financial assets, principally goodwill and IT assets not yet in been suffered.
This included discussion of alternative views and the use, underperforming stores, and property.
This has taken into possibility of different conclusions, together with taking professional consideration the Groups view of the grocery market and margins in advice as appropriate.
In addition, in 2013 14, the Group has conducted an The Committee reviewed sensitivity analysis showing the impact of in-depth reappraisal of its supermarket pipeline.
As a result, the Group changes in assumptions as well as benchmarking, where appropriate.
has identified a number of sites that it no longer intends to build.
Any changes in assumptions from prior reviews were discussed at length There are a number of assumptions used in these assessments that with the Committee before being finalised.
The Committee also reviewed include discount rates, growth rates and the fair value less costs to sell the disclosures in the financial statements to assess whether they of assets.
The outcome of this review is significant to the Group with adequately reflected the risk and outcome of the review.
903m being charged in the year.
These matters are described in note 1.4 to these financial statements.
SUPPLIER INCOME The Group has developed detailed internal policies for the recognition Supplier income is the contribution received from suppliers for of supplier income that build on the requirements of IFRS.
The Audit promotional activity or as a rebate or discount from purchases.
Committee reviewed managements findings on the application of internal It is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales and as such policy during the year and was satisfied that it had been applied in all directly affects the Groups reported margin.
Income can span material respects.
multiple products over different periods of time giving rise to The area of supplier income has also been subject to a review from the a risk to appropriate recognition and measurement.
Internal Audit function during the year.
The Committee has reviewed this report, in which no significant control weaknesses were identified, in coming to its conclusion.
IT SYSTEMS As well as the risk of impairment considered above the Committee The Group is in the process of upgrading and developing its core has considered the nature of costs being capitalised to ensure they are systems, the cost of which is a material element of the annual capital capital in nature.
It has also regularly reviewed progress against system expenditure for the current year.
Additionally these systems are the implementation plans.
The Committee has received three reports during base to execute a number of the Groups plans including loyalty and the year on the Groups IT systems, both from management and from other promotional tools.
These papers have set out the progression in level of spend, key suppliers, type of costs and capitalisation policy.
The Committee is satisfied that costs have been capitalised in line with the Groups policy.
ACCOUNTING FOR THE ARRANGEMENT The Audit Committee reviewed a paper presented by management, on WITH OCADO which the external auditors had commented, setting out the proposed During the year the Group entered into an arrangement with Ocado accounting treatment for each element of the arrangement.
Key judgement for the provision of online fulfilment and distribution services.
At the areas of whether the purchase of the company holding the site was an asset same time it purchased a company, from Ocado, which holds the title acquisition or business combination and whether the lease back to Ocado to an online distribution site, which has been leased back to Ocado.
was financing or operating were discussed in detail.
External valuations, the Further, a joint venture company was established which owns the plant underlying operating agreement with Ocado and the professional opinion and equipment of the distribution facility which is owned 50:50 by the of the independent advisers working on the transaction were considered Group and Ocado.
in concluding on the accounting treatment, which is set out in the financial statements in note 4.6.
STOCK The policies and procedures for stock accounting, reporting and Stock remains a material balance in the Groups financial statements.
provisioning have been reviewed by the Audit Committee as part of the It is held in multiple locations and across a number of different financial annual policy review which includes external benchmarking and sensitivity systems.
Judgement is required in determining provisions for shrinkage analysis where appropriate.
A management paper setting out a proposed and policies around stock provisioning in general.
change to stock count procedures and the appointment of third party counters was discussed with the external auditors.
The Committee receives updates on stock count results throughout the year as requested.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 57 INTERNAL CONTROL EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the external managed across the Group.
Risks are reviewed by the Management Board auditor.
The Committee holds meetings with the auditor without for all functions annually and results are brought to the Board.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand of the Board the Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the the auditors views on the control and governance environment and effectiveness of internal control including financial, operational and managements effectiveness within it.
To fulfil its responsibilities in compliance controls.
In order to do this, as a matter of course in any one respect of the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, year, the Committee: the Committee reviewed: receives and agrees appropriate actions in response to regular reports the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of work of the from the Risk and Internal Audit function on: external auditor as set out in the engagement letter: the audit work plan for the Group: the status of internal control and risk management systems across the Group: the detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion of any major issues that arose during the audit: the departments findings, annual plan and the resources available to it to perform its work: and the letter from KPMG confirming its independence and objectivity: and any concerns expressed by colleagues about possible malpractice the audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided or wrongdoing: during 2013 14. reviews financial whistle-blowing reports from staff: In the year, the external auditor has continued to provide non-audit reviews the external auditors management letters on internal work, primarily to provide the Board with independent assurance in financial control: respect of IT systems replacement.
The Board believes that this activity is a reasonable extension of the auditors statutory work and there are seeks reports from senior management on the effectiveness of the safeguards in place to avoid a threat to the auditors independence or management of key risk areas: and objectivity.
These safeguards comprise separate KPMG teams for audit monitors the adequacy and timeliness of managements response to vs. non-audit work.
In addition, the Board is satisfied that there is no identified audit issues.
conflict of interest since the nature of the non-audit work is testing at In particular, during 2013 14, the Committee reviewed the progress of IT a more detailed level than would be required for the Groups statutory systems roll out and agreed the Internal Audit functions scope of audit audit and therefore not work of any nature that could threaten KPMGs for the forthcoming year.
Non-audit fees as a proportion of audit fees were 33% in 2013 14 2012 13: 83%.
The main features of the Groups internal control and risk management systems relating to the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting, The Board has a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to including the process for preparing consolidated accounts, are: supply non-audit services, which is available in the Corporate governance compliance statement set out in the investor relations section of the recruitment of suitably qualified and experienced finance staff: Groups website at www.
This non-audit segregation of duties, clear lines of accountability and procedures services policy is designed to assist the Company and each of its that cover financial planning and reporting and preparation of subsidiaries in ensuring that the engagement of the external auditor to financial information: provide non-audit services: a robust period end review process including review and commentary from process owners: is carried out only in appropriate circumstances: is transparent: a tiered review process for external financial reports involving internal stakeholders from relevant areas of the business: does not impair the judgement or independence of the external auditor: and information and data security policies and procedures: and is only for those assignments permitted by the policy.
self certification by each section of the business.
The Audit Committee has undertaken a review of effectiveness of internal control areas during the financial year.
No significant failings of internal control were identified during these reviews, limited weaknesses were identified, none of which are significant and all of which have clear action plans, captured as part of functional risk registers with defined management responsibility.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 58 Corporate governance report CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR CONTINUED The Audit Committee has a clear authorisation process for all professional fees and receives reports on the level of fees from all key advisers on a quarterly basis.
When assessing the non-audit services for approval, the Audit Committee will take the following into consideration: whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make it the most suitable supplier of the non-audit service: whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity or independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the external auditor: the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels and the size of fees, individually and in aggregate, relative to the audit fee: and the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals performing the audit.
In addition, the auditor follows its own ethical guidelines and continually reviews its audit team to ensure that its independence is not compromised.
KPMG has been in place for a number of years, although during that time it has periodically changed its lead audit partner and reviewing partner in accordance with professional and regulatory standards.
This protects independence and objectivity and provides fresh challenge to the business.
In addition, the Committee specifically challenged and sought comfort from KPMG in respect of its work in the areas that drive audit quality.
The Audit Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the FRC in September 2012 and, in particular, the recommendation to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
The more restrictive EU proposal of mandatory rotation is still the subject of negotiation at European parliament level: the Board keeps this situation under review.
Notwithstanding that the Audit Committee is satisfied with KPMGs effectiveness and independence, it has recommended to the Board that a tender process be conducted for the appointment of the Groups auditor for 2014 15.
The Board has agreed: a decision that reflects the Groups commitment to good corporate governance.
A recommendation regarding appointment of the Groups external auditor will be made at the AGM in June 2014.
The Group has no contractual arrangements for example, within borrowing agreements that restrict its choice of auditor.
