Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Executive Committee as at 29 September 2014 The Executive Committee addresses operational issues and is responsible for implementing Group strategy and policies, day-to-day management and monitoring performance.
Ian Meakins Steve Ashmore Tony England Group Chief Executive Managing Director, UK Group Chief Information officer Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general management experience Considerable experience of construction materials distribution Extensive international experience in senior IT leadership roles in brand, retail and wholesale distribution management: strategic sector: strong international operational experience: logistics and across the pharmaceutical, banking and wholesale distribution vision and extensive operational leadership.
Patrick Headon Ole Mikael Jensen John Martin Chief Executive officer, Central Europe Chief Executive officer, Nordic Chief Financial officer Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Considerable operational management experience in Strong international operational experience, together with Extensive operational and financial management experience.
international consumer goods, retail and textiles.
Plus deep financial, construction, distribution and sourcing experience.
Mr Martin has significant experience at cost control, driving e-commerce experience.
productivity, finance and systems transformation programmes, leading business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, capital efficiency, tax, treasury and compliance activities.
Bob Morrison Frank Roach Richard Shoylekov Group HR Director Chief Executive officer, USA Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Considerable human resources and operations experience and Strong business and operational leadership experience and Extensive management of legal affairs and corporate executive search rm experience: a strong leadership expertise in the management of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
governance: development and implementation of risk development focus.
Wide ranging business development and sales experience.
management and legal and ethics compliance systems.
Additional biographical details for each member of the Executive Committee can be found on the Wolseley plc website www.
com Wolseley plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
