Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Effectiveness The Chairman regularly discusses the way the Board functions and Maintaining an effective Board broad governance matters with the Senior Independent Director and Board relationships the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The Senior Independent Director separately held informal discussions with The effective working of the Board is crucial to the long-term the Non Executive Directors, with and without the presence of prospects and strategic aims of the Company.
This is achieved the Chairman.
In his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration through strong and open working relationships between the Committee he has also led consultations with shareholders on Directors and, in particular, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive remuneration matters.
andSenior Independent Director, whose roles are agreed and set out in writing.
A short summary of their roles and division of There was detailed planning throughout the year, with the assistance responsibilities is set out below.
of the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, to consider and review the Boards 12-month rolling agenda programme.
Roles and division of responsibilities This ensured that all matters reserved for the Board and other Chairman strategic issues were discussed at the appropriate time.
t Responsible for overall leadership and governance of the Board Board support including induction, development and performance evaluation The Board and its Committees are provided with sufficient resources t Ensures that the Directors have an understanding of the views of to undertake their duties.
The Group Company Secretary and the Companys major shareholders General Counsel, Richard Shoylekov, was Secretary to the Board and its Committees during the year.
Prior to each set of meetings t Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board and he ensured that the papers and other information were delivered Committee meetings sufciently in advance of the meeting date so that all Directors were provided with necessary time and resources to full their duties.
Group Chief Executive This information is published in advance via a secure web portal, t Responsible for the effective leadership of the Company allowing remote access by Directors using an iPad, and meeting support is provided by the Company Secretariat department.
t Strong and focused management and development of the All Directors have access to a reading room through the web portal Groups operations which provides access to a library of relevant information about the Company, the Group and Board procedures.
t Implementation of the Companys objectives and strategy agreed by the Board The Board has an established procedure for Directors, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense t Maintaining good relationships and communications in furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the direct access with investors that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel for his advice and services.
t Working closely with the Chief Financial officer to ensure prudent financial controls Composition and development of the Board t Developing and implementing policies integral to improving As highlighted on page 9, John Daly, Darren Shapland and Jacky the business, including in relation to Health and Safety and Simmonds were appointed as Non Executive Directors during Corporate Responsibility the year.
All new Directors follow a comprehensive induction programme, details of which are summarised on page 66.
As part Senior Independent Director of this programme, the Company Secretariat department and other Group functions provided new Directors with induction briengs.
t Available for approach by or representations from investors and New Directors also visited a variety of businesses in order to shareholders, where communications through the Chairman or familiarise themselves with the Groups operations.
Executive Directors may not seem appropriate All Directors are provided opportunities for further development and t A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the training following their induction and, during the year, the Chairman other Directors when necessary discusses a development plan with each Director.
In addition to regular updates on governance, legal and regulatory matters, the t Available to chair the Board in the absence of the Chairman Board also receives detailed briengs from advisers on a variety t Conducts consultations with shareholders on oftopics that are relevant to the Group and its strategy.
The annual remuneration matters formal review of governance provides the Directors withan opportunity to assess their effectiveness and that of the Board asa whole.
Wolseley plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Effectiveness continued The induction process has been well structured Our Induction programme and gave an introduction to all parts of The Companys induction programme for new Directors is the business, from the Group and central structured to reect what is regarded as best practice.
All new Non Executive Directors appointed to the Board are provided functions to meetings with the business units.
with an induction programme aimed at ensuring they develop an The individual business unit reviews have been understanding and awareness of our businesses, people and particularly useful with a chance to review both processes.
The programme includes: the business strategy and to discuss with t Provision of relevant current and historical information about the management the key issues and opportunities.
Company and the Group along with specic details about the duties of Directors and the Companys rules of residence in light Alongside this we have completed site and of its registration in Jersey and tax residence in Switzerland : branch visits in the USA and the UK to see t Visits to operations around the Group: how their plans are implemented at the front line with the branch colleagues and how they t Meetings with major shareholders and advisers: and, deliver for the customer.
t One-to-one meetings with members of the Executive Committee and other senior executives in the businesses and in Darren Shapland corporate functions.
Non Executive Director Evaluating the performance of the Board and theDirectors The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its Committees each year, with an external evaluation every three years.
The next externally evaluated performance review is scheduled to take place in 2015.
In 2014, an internal review was undertaken and during the year the Board reviewed its progress against the action points identied in this review.
A summary of how the action points have been addressed is provided below: Action point Responsibility Outcome Continued focus on measuring the performance of Board The Board undertook in-depth reviews of the development the Company against its own targets as well as the of major businesses and regular updates were provided to performance of competitors.
the Board concerning the performance of the Company and competitors when this information became available.
Enhance Board oversight of the Groups growth Board Reviews have been undertaken to identify and consider opportunities through more regular and detailed acquisition opportunities.
Acquisition proposals were evaluation of projects.
presented to and reviewed by the Board prior to approval.
Other growth opportunities were identied and capital expenditure approved to support growth initiatives.
The Board also conducts reviews of all major acquisitions post completion to assess the performance of the acquired business and progress made on integration anddelivery of synergy benets.
For more information on acquisitions see the Group Chief Executives review on page 13 and note 30 to the consolidated financial statements When appointments are next made to the Board, Board and The Board will benefit from the range and depth of consider further expanding the range of skills and Nominations Committee experience of the three new Non Executive Directors experience to reect the Groups strategic objectives.
Ms Simmonds has extensive human resources and remuneration experience.
Mr Shapland has significant retail experience in addition to his strong finance background.
Mr Daly has extensive international operational experience.
Wolseley plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Effectiveness review External appointments This year, the Board effectiveness review was facilitated internally The Board believes that there are significant benets for both the using sets of questions adapted to address the activities and Board and the individual if an Executive Director holds an external concerns of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration non executive directorship on the board of a non-competitor Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Ian Meakins continues to hold his non executive position format was used, including questions from previous years in at Centrica plc: details of payments received in respect of this order to be able to compare responses and monitor progress as appointment are set out on page 104.
None of the other Executive well as new questions reecting current priorities and concerns.
Directors hold any external appointments.
They encouraged comment and qualitative evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and each Committee, the individual Accountability members and the support received from management and from The Board is committed to presenting a clear assessment of the advisers.
The results of the surveys formed the basis of discussion Companys position and prospects through the information provided of areas for further improvement by the Board and the Committees.
in this report, through interim financial statements and other reports The Board continues to consider each of the Directors to be effective as required.
and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
The Boards approach to risk management In the discussions held by the Senior Independent Director with the Non Executive Directors, the performance of the Chairman was The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent evaluated and highly rated.
of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives andfor maintaining sound risk management and internal Key findings and improvement actions control systems.
The effectiveness of these systems is also reviewed The Board effectiveness review concluded that the atmosphere in through the work of the Audit Committee described on pages 70 the boardroom encouraged equal contribution, candid discussion to 74.
There is a Group-wide standard framework in place which and critical thinking.
The agenda of the Board, timeliness of supports the Groups risk management programme and allows the documentation and quality of information provided in advance Board to assess and manage risk through its strategic planning and ofmeetings were very highly rated.
The amount of time spent performance monitoring processes.
reviewing strategy was considered to be appropriate and the The key risks which the Board has focused on this year are set out annualstrategy day was highly rated.
No critical issues were in the Principal risks and their management section of this report on identied but the review did identify areas for further improvement pages 42 to 47. which are summarised below.
As at the date of this report, the Board has already begun to Remuneration incorporate a number of these action points into its processes Further details relating to the level and components of remuneration and procedures.
together with the Company policies on such matters are provided in Action theRemuneration report on pages 83 to 104.
Continued focus on market environment and performance relative to competitors.
Continued focus on the Groups growth opportunities organically through the development ofits business models and through acquisitions.
Time commitment All Directors are aware, from the time of appointment, of the need to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board continually monitors potential conicts of interest, as detailed on page 79.
With the exception of absence from meetings due to illness, no Director has been unable to devote sufficient time to the role during the year.
Wolseley plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
