Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Leadership The Company is registered in Jersey and is tax resident in Board members Switzerland.
During the year all meetings of the Board, Committees As at 31 July 2014, the Board was made up of 11 members of the Board and all other meetings requiring decisions of a strategic consisting of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and seven or substantive nature were held outside the United Kingdom.
Biographical details for each of the In order to provide the Board with greater visibility of the Groups Directors in ofce as at 31 July 2014 are shown on pages 58 and 59. operations and to provide further opportunities to meet senior The Non Executive Directors and the Chairman are each management, the Board intends to visit at least one of the Groups considered by the Board to be independent and free of any business unit locations each year.
Such visits allow the Board to relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their gain a deeper understanding of local market dynamics and assess independent judgement.
In addition, members of the Board periodically visit business units and meet management Board meetings around the Group.
The Board met regularly during the year, with Board and Committee Board visit to the USA meetings scheduled over two or three day periods.
There were six scheduled meetings and details of attendance are shown in the Members of the Board visit the Groups geographic operations table below.
on an ongoing basis and, in May 2014, the Board and Committee meetings were held in Houston, Texas.
This provided an Members and attendance eligibility opportunity for executives from our businesses in the United atmeetings held during the year ended States to meet the Board and discuss the business strategy and 31July2014: operational performance of those businesses in the United States 1 in more detail.
Board members visited several operational sites Board members: Scheduled meetings: attendance and eligibility : in the Houston metropolitan area to get a broader and deeper G Davis 6 6 understanding of the business.
The sites visited included: T Bamford 6 6 t Wolseley Industrial Groups new warehouse facility in La Porte, P Lpez 6 6 Houston.
J Martin 6 6 t Fergusons new showroom in Woodlands, Houston.
I Meakins 6 6 t Fergusons plumbing and heating branch at Spring, Houston.
2 A Murray 5 6 F Roach 6 6 Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board 3 M Wareing 6 6 and Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior management from across the Group, and advisers, attend some of Members who joined during the year: the meetings for the discussion of specic items in greater depth.
4 J Daly 2 2 4 It is important to the Board that it meets members of senior D Shapland 2 2 management from around the Groups businesses, as it 4 J Simmonds 2 2 further enhances the Boards understanding of operations, the Members who stepped down during the year: implementation of strategy and the changing dynamics of the 5 markets in which the business units operate.
M Clarke 4 4 5 A Duff 2 2 1 In addition to the scheduled meetings, one unscheduled meeting was convened at short notice to deal with matters that needed to be considered before the next scheduled meeting.
All Directors were given notice of the meeting and some of them were unable to attend due to prior commitments which could not be rearranged.
The meeting was attended by Ms Lpez and MessrsDavis, Meakins, Murray and Roach.
2 Due to illness, Alan Murray was unable to attend one Board meeting.
3 Michael Wareing will step down as a Non Executive Director with effect from 25 November 2014.
4 Darren Shapland was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 May 2014.
John Daly and JackySimmonds were appointed as Non Executive Directors on 21 May 2014.
5 Andrew Duff stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 26 November 2013.
Michael Clarke stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 21 March 2014.
Wolseley plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Leadership continued Board decision-making Key Committees of the Board The Board provides strong leadership to the Company and 1 Provided below is an overview of our key committees : continues to have effective and constructive relationships with Audit Committee both the management team and shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors play an essential role in the composition of the Board 2 Chaired by: Michael Wareing Number of meetings in the year: 4 due to the range of skills and expertise they bring.
The new Non Executive Directors who joined the Board this year have settled Role of the Committee in well and the Board continues to have a strong culture of open The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and debate where all Directors are actively encouraged to challenge monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting existing assumptions and to raise difficult questions.
processes, audit internal and external, controls and matters relating to fraud and whistleblowing.
Certain strategic decision-making powers and authorities of the Company are reserved as matters for the Board.
The formal For more information on the Audit Committee schedule of matters reserved for its decision was updated during the andtheAuditCommittee Report year to incorporate provisions relating to strategy and management, See pages 70 to 74 financial reporting, communication and policies, and to implement the regulations relating to directors remuneration.
Remuneration Committee The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out on page 63.
3 Chaired by: Jacky Simmonds Number of meetings in the year: 5 Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by members of the Executive Committee.
Role of the Committee Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committee which will The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the consider them in accordance with its terms of reference.
Details of framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Wolseley plc Board and Committee governance structure are the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
The formal terms of reference for each of the The remuneration of the Non Executive Directors is determined Committees of the Board, which have been approved by the Board by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Committee and comply with the Code, are available from the Group Company takes into account the business strategy of the Group and how the Secretary and General Counsel and can also be found on the remuneration policy reects and supports that strategy.
For more information on the Remuneration Committee andtheRemuneration Committee Report See pages 83 to 104 Committee membership as at 31 July 2014: Major Audit Remuneration Nominations Announcements 1 2 3 Nominations Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Gareth Davis Chaired by: Gareth Davis Number of meetings in the year: 3 Ian Meakins Role of the Committee John Martin The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the structure, size Frank Roach and composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identies Tessa Bamford and nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board John Daly subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Pilar Lpez For more information on the Nominations Committee Alan Murray See pages 75 and 76 Darren Shapland 1 The Major Announcements Committee is also a Committee of the Board.
By its nature and as Jacky Simmonds anticipated by its terms of reference, it would usually meet only in exceptional circumstances where information has come to light which is of an unexpected, non-routine and material nature.
Michael Wareing There were no meetings in the year.
Richard Shoylekov 2 Darren Shapland will succeed Michael Wareing as Chairman of the Audit Committee on25 November 2014.
Chairman Member Secretary 3 Alan Murray stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 Darren Shapland will succeed Michael Wareing as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 31 July2014 and was succeeded by Jacky Simmonds.
2 Alan Murray stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 31 July2014 and was succeeded by Jacky Simmonds.
3 Mark Fearon, Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations, is also a member oftheMajor Announcements Committee.
Wolseley plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Summary of principal matters reserved for the Board: Board and Executive Strategy and management Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman Oversight of the management of the Wolseley Group and the Group Chief Executive and the terms of reference of all Setting the overall strategic direction Committeesof the Board Major approvals Determining and setting Board and senior executive remuneration Approval of major changes to the Wolseley Groups Reviewing the performance of the Board and its corporate structure Committeesannually Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments Succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior management Risk and governance Finance Approval of all key policies and material amendments to those policies, including the Code of Conduct, Health and Safety and Approval of tax and treasury policy and certain items outside the Environmental policies remit of the Treasury Committee Maintaining a sound system of internal controls and Approval of the Group and Company financial statements risk management Recommending or declaring dividends Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements What has the Board done during the year?
The Board has a rolling agenda programme which ensures that items relating to strategy, finance, operations, corporate governance and compliance are covered in its meetings.
An overview of the Boards 2013 14 objectives and how the Board has achieved these objectives is set out below: 2013 14 objectives Achievements Strategy Annual strategy review.
The annual strategy review was conducted at Board meetings in May and July 2014.
Management responsible for each of the Groups regions presented proposals for 1 2 3 4 5 6 the strategic development of their businesses.
The Board reviewed the Group-wide strategy and the proposals from individual businesses.
Regularly review and monitor the Groups progress Aspects of the strategy and its implementation have against its strategic objectives.
These include the been reviewed throughout the year.
Regular reports were further renement of business models and improving provided to the Board from management on progress the productivity of its existing operations, accelerating made with strategic objectives, the development of the profitable growth through organic expansion and Groups business models, ongoing initiatives and plans selective acquisitions where opportunities would provide to improve productivity.
Investments to support organic strong synergies.
growth were considered and approved.
The Board regularly reviewed acquisition opportunities and several acquisitions were completed during the year.
For more information on the Groups strategy see the Strategic report starting on page 6.
People Regular review including maintaining the appropriate Detailed reviews were completed by the Board in balance and depth of skills and experience of the November 2013 and March 2014.
Further details on Board, succession planning of the Board, the Executive diversity are provided on pages 49 and 76.
Committees and leadership teams in all regions and improving workforce diversity.
Wolseley plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Leadership continued Having identied the areas which the Board focused on during the The Boards priorities for 2014 15 year, set out below are some highlights of its activities which provide The Boards priorities for the year will focus on ensuring effective an indication of the nature of the Boards work.
execution of existing strategic plans.
Strategy 2014 15 priorities Strategy Regularly review and monitor the Groups The development of the Companys strategy and evolution progress against its strategic objectives, with of its business models was considered through the year.
particular focus on driving growth organically In addition, the Board attended a dedicated Strategy Day in through the development of new business May 2014 and completed its review of strategy at its meeting in models and selective bolt-on acquisitions.
Whilst the Groups strategy remains unchanged, the Board regularly reviews plans and initiatives which support the Annual strategy review.
People Regular review to include maintaining the appropriate balance and depth of skills both at The Groups strategy is explained in the Strategic report startingon page6 and includes an in-depth focus on: Board and Executive Committee level and within 3 the management teams in all regions.
Accelerate profitable growth on pages 14 to 17 4 Drive evolution of business models on pages 18 to 24 Why you should vote to re-elect your Board Operations The Board contains a broad range of experience and skills from a variety of industries and advisory roles, which fully complement each The Board regularly reviews the operational performance of other and have been strengthened through further appointments in the Groups businesses, including financial and non-financial May 2014. performance measures.
The Group Chief Executive reported to In accordance with Provision B.
7.1. of the Code, with the exception the Board on best practice developed and shared amongst the of Michael Wareing, all Directors will stand for election or re-election businesses during the year.
A centrally maintained portal ensures at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Full biographies for that best practice is shared with senior managers across the Group.
the Directors can be found on pages 58 and 59 and in the Notice of See Regional performance on pages 26 to 35 AGM.
As Michael Wareing will be standing down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, he will not be putting himself forward for re-election.
People There was continued focus on the composition of the Board.
Three new Non Executive Directors were appointed during the year and Jacky Simmonds took over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, allowing the Company to benefit from her experience in the area of executive remuneration.
In November 2013, the Board conducted a review of the progress made against Wolseleys People Strategy and in March 2014, as part of its regular talent and succession review process and with the assistance of the Group HR Director, the Board conducted a detailed review of members of the Groups senior leadership team and their successors.
The Board believes the talent and succession planning processes to be of a high standard.
See Our people on page 49 Finance The Board regularly monitored the Groups financial performance.
A monthly performance pack was provided to the Board by the Chief Financial officer which included an overview of the Group and business unit performance, market trends, competitor activity and shareholder matters.
This was discussed at every Board meeting.
All financial statements to be released to the market were discussed and reviewed.
The 2014 15 budget was reviewed and approved at the July 2014 meeting.
See Strategic report on pages 6 to 54 Wolseley plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
