Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders Top 100 investors concentration We are fully committed to engaging with all shareholders, including Others Top 5 investors employee shareholders, and this is reected in our annual investor 19.5% 24.8% relations and communications programmes.
In our interactions with shareholders, we ensure that we act professionally, provide accurate data, are timely with our disclosure of information to the market and Rest of top 100 investors are at all times accessible.
17.2% Rest of top 30 investors Our Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations is the 38.5% senior executive who has day-to-day responsibility for all investor relations matters and for contact with shareholders institutional and private, as well as with financial analysts and the media.
He reports Shareholder concentration totheChief Financial officer and Group Chief Executive.
Individual and other private investors All investor communication is governed by written guidelines to 0.8% ensure the appropriate governance of the processes for engaging with shareholders and financial analysts is maintained.
In addition, these guidelines govern the prompt disclosure of inside information which couldaffect the Companys share price.
Institutional investors 99.2% Our major shareholders As at 31 July 2014 and as at the date of this report, the Company had received notication of the following material shareholdings Geographical breakdown of shareholder base pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Number of shares held Percentage of issued Name millions voting share capital United Kingdom Asia Blackrock, Inc 25,625,559 9.64% 51.1% North America 3.8% Europe Cevian Capital II GP Limited 13,123,178 4.94% 29.7% excluding UK AXA S. A.
13,065,225 4.60% 14.7% Rest of World 0.7% Wolseley plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Engagement with shareholders Plans for engagement in2014 15 During the year, an extensive communications programme A similar Investor Relations programme will be run during the was followed.
We maintained regular dialogue with institutional financial year.
In addition, the Investor Relations team will be meeting shareholders and financial analysts based in Europe and North with members of the UK Shareholders Association prior to the AGM America.
Many of these meetings and conversations closely in November 2014. involved the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer.
We released quarterly updates of the financial performance of the 2013 AGM Group incorporating revenue, profitability by region, net debt and The 2013 AGM was held on 26 November 2013 at Parkhotel, appropriate commentary on key business trends.
Alan Murray, in his Industriestrasse 14, CH 6304, Zug, Switzerland at 1.00pm Swiss capacity as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as time with an audio-visual link to the ofces of Freshelds Bruckhaus the Senior Independent Director, engaged with major shareholders Deringer LLP.
The link allowed shareholders in London to see and inrelation to executive remuneration and other matters.
hear proceedings, and provided the opportunity to put questions As our shareholder base is mainly institutional, it is difficult to directly to the Board about the business of the meeting and engage with all of our private shareholders using the same direct about the Company.
The Board as a whole is committed to the engagement model.
We hold periodic meetings with the UK constructive use of the AGM as a way to meet with shareholders, Shareholders Association and respond to all communications from hear their views and answer their questions.
All Directors attended individual shareholders.
In an effort to ensure that all shareholders and answered a wide range of questions from shareholders.
have equal access to information we make all documents presented at investor events available onthe Wolseley plc website.
There is 2014 AGM also a shareholder information section on the Wolseley plc website The 2014 AGM will be held on 25 November 2014 at Parkhotel, www.
com and at the end ofthis report on pages 169 Industriestrasse 14, CH 6304, Zug, Switzerland at 1.00pm Swiss to171.
An audio-visual link to the meeting is proposed to be available at the ofces of Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 26-28 Tudor Shareholder meetings during the year Street, London EC4Y 0BQ and will start at 12 noon UK time.
We are keen to maintain an open dialogue with all of our Full details of the AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM and are shareholders and have a well developed investor relations available on the Wolseley plc website www.
The allocation of time spent in the UK, continental Europe and North America reects the distribution of our shareholders as highlighted on page 68.
During the year ended 31 July 2014, there were a total of 264 meetings.
Ian Meakins and John Martin together with the Investor Relations team attended 128 meetings, four of which were also attended by Steve Ashmore, the Managing Director of our UK business.
Frank Roach attended eight meetings and the Investor Relations team met with institutions through a further 128 meetings, conferences and site visits.
The Chairman often meets with the larger institutional shareholders and attended the Full Year and Half Year results presentations.
He also ensures that the Board as a whole maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also attend presentations of the Full Year and Half Year results when possible.
The Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations regularlyprovides the Board with details of feedback received from institutional shareholders and any key issues raised.
Wolseley plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
