Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Audit Committee Including the report from the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 July 2014 Dear Shareholder Michael Wareing Chairman I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2013 14.
As announced on 24 July 2014, at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting I will be stepping down as Chairman of the Audit Committee and from the Board and handing over the responsibilities of my role as Chairman of the Committee to Darren Shapland.
Darren was until 2010 Chief Financial officer of JSainsbury plc and chairs the Audit Committee of Ladbrokes plc.
Darrens wealth Members and attendance eligibility of financial experience complements the substantial financial at meetings held during the year ended 1 experience already provided by existing Committee members 31 July 2014 Tessa Bamford, Pilar Lpez and Alan Murray.
In addition to Darren, Committee members Meeting attendance and eligibility I am delighted to welcome two other new Non Executive Directors 2 who joined the Committee as members in May 2014: John Daly M Wareing Chairman 4 4 and Jacky Simmonds.
John and Jacky bring with them substantial T Bamford 4 4 operational experience and are, like the other Committee members, P Lpez 4 4 considered to be independent in accordance with the Code 3 criteria.
I was International Chief Executive of KPMG until I retired A Murray 3 4 in September 2009 and I currently chair the Audit Committee of Members who joined during the year: two other FTSE 350 companies.
This provides the Board with 4 J Daly 0 0 assurance that the Audit Committee meets the Code requirements 4 that at least one member of the Committee has significant, recent D Shapland 1 1 and relevant financial experience, and that at least three members 4 J Simmonds 0 0 areindependent.
The key strengths and experience of each member Members who left during the year: of theCommittee are summarised on pages 58 and 59.
5 M Clarke 2 3 Last year we took the opportunity to implement earlier than 5 A Duff 1 1 necessary many of the changes to our reporting required by the 1 As at 31 July 2014, the Committee is made up of seven Non Executive Directors.
The Board Code and the new narrative reporting regulations.
This year we have considers that the Chairman and other members of the Committee have relevant financial implemented all of the required changes to our report.
experience and that each member of the Committee is independent within the denition set out inthe Code.
At the 2014 AGM, both Darren and I shall be available to respond 2 Darren Shapland will succeed Michael Wareing as Chairman of the Audit Committee on25 November 2014. to any questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the 3 Due to illness, Alan Murray was unable to attend one Committee meeting.
4 Darren Shapland was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 May 2014.
John Daly and JackySimmonds were appointed as Non Executive Directors on 21 May 2014.
Other attendees 5 Andrew Duff stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 26 November 2013.
Michael Clarkestepped down as a Non Executive Director on 21 March 2014.
In addition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, together with senior representatives of the Companys external auditors, attended and received papers for each meeting.
Other senior executives were also invited to certain meetings topresent and discuss specic items.
In particular, the Finance Directors of the Groups major regions periodically attend Committee meetings to provide the Committee with detailed updates relating to their region.
The Committee periodically meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and theexternal auditors without the presence of Executive Directors andalso separately with the Chief Financial officer.
Wolseley plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was What the Committee has done during theyear carried out in May 2014.
The review concluded that: the Committee An overview of the Committees 2013 14 objectives and how the meetings benefited from a comprehensive agenda programme with Committee has achieved these objectives is set out below: key issues well covered: the information provided was of a very good 2013 14 objectives Achievements quality and timely: the work of the internal and external auditors was well scrutinised: and there was good collaboration between internal Maintain close scrutiny of the In March and September each audit and the external auditor.
The report also highlighted areas for Companys management of year the Audit Committee improvement and we have incorporated these into our priorities for its principal risks and ensure undertakes a review of key risks 2014 15 as set out on page 74. continued improvement of the and controls, considers how risk management framework.
they have been managed in Allocation of time spent during the year practice and provides feedback to management.
In May each year, Set out in the table and the narrative below is a summary of matters the Audit Committee reviews the considered by the Committee during 2013 14.
Key issues covered by effectiveness of the overall risk the Committee are reported to the subsequent meeting of the Board management framework.
and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
Prepare for and, if appropriate, Regulatory changes are Sep Nov Mar May implement the regulatory considered throughout the year.
Financial reporting and significant changes to Audit Committee The Committee considered nancialjudgements governance, in particular in developments in the regulation Full Year results and associated relation to the tendering of of audittendering: for further announcements the audit.
In addition, the Committee considered the Half Year results and associated announcements changes to the Code and the Guidance on Audit Committees External audit issued by the FRC, and the new Auditors Full Year report to the Committee narrative reporting regulations.
In Independence review of external auditor September 2013, the Committee Effectiveness review of external auditor recommended to the Board that many of the new requirements Review of engagement letter be adopted early in the 2012 13 Auditors Half Year report to the Committee Annual Report and Accounts.
Year-end external audit plan Continue to monitor the Systems and controls were Consideration of non-audit engagements effectiveness of the overall monitored throughout the year, Review of audit and non-audit fees assurance provided by Internal with reports to the Committee External audit tender: consideration of Audit, internal controls and from Internal Audit, External Audit, developments risk management processes Risk Management andmanagers and, in particular, review the responsible for the implementation Internal audit effectiveness of the Companys of internal controls.
During the Internal audit report to the Committee internal control systems.
year, the Committee reviewed Annual plans for internal audit and Base and increased the resources in Financial Controls Internal Audit to implement greater Effectiveness review of internal audit assurance over branch activities.
In addition, the Committee Risk management reviewed the co-ordination of Fraud and whistleblowing report the assurance over financial Risk management report to the Committee reporting and control and agreed Review of the risk sections of the Annual that Internal Audit should take Report responsibility for the audit of Review of risk management framework compliance with the Groups Base Financial Controls.
Other Updates on accounting and corporate governance developments Terms of reference review Review of effectiveness of the Committee Wolseley plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Audit Committee continued by assessing reports from management and the extent to which Financial reporting and significant professional advice was taken on these matters.
In each case nancialjudgements management presented to the Committee the basis of any The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies provision and the key assumptions applied when quantifying it, have been adopted and whether management has made including the likelihood of successful claims to be made against appropriate estimates and judgements and seeks support the Group.
Thisincluded a number of claims which had been from the external auditors to assess them.
As part of the review made where management concluded that the claims were process, the Committee receives papers and holds discussions without merit or were not estimable or sufciently probable to with management and makes its assessment in accordance with recognise a provision in accordance with accounting standards.
The main issues reviewed during the year The Committee agreed with the position taken by management ended 31 July 2014 and how these issues were addressed are inrespect of those matters.
summarised below: t The Committee considered the value of provisions against t The Committee reviewed the analysis of goodwill and other unresolved tax positions as at 31 July 2014.
Management intangible assets for impairments.
The Committee concluded presented to the Committee the basis for provisioning based that no impairment had occurred and arrived at this conclusion uponthe latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities by questioning management and performing a detailed review and previous experience.
The Committee also received detailed and analysis of the assumptions underlying the value in use reporting from the external auditors before concluding the calculations for the businesses identied as cash generating units.
provisions are fairly stated in the annual accounts.
The key assumptions underlying the calculations are primarily Last year, prior to the introduction of the revised Code in September the achievability of the long-term business plan, country-specic 2012, we considered whether the 2012 13 Annual Report and discount rates, anticipated revenue growth in the short-term, Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it andlong-term growth assumptions.
provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess In addition to receiving and reviewing reports from management the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
At the on this area, the Committee also considered detailed feedback request of the Board, we have undertaken the same review of the received from the external auditors on this topic.
The cash 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts.
We were satisfied that, generating units that have the lowest level of headroom are taken as a whole, the 2013 2014 Annual Report and Accounts is all inthe Nordic region and are disclosed in note 12 of the fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary consolidated financial statements.
information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
t The Committee reviewed the recognition of supplier rebate income, which is an area of inherent risk due to the number and External audit complexity of supplier rebate arrangements.
In addition, the majority of the supplier rebate arrangements are not coterminous External audit processes with the Groups accounting year-end as they generally cover a calendar year.
This review covered the processes and controls in During the year,  LLP PwC undertook place during the year and the level of adherence to the Groups external audit and certain non-audit work.
The Group Audit Partner, accounting policies and procedures.
Judgements were made to Stuart Watson, together with Neil Grimes of the PwC audit team, forecast the expected level of volumes purchased to determine attended each Audit Committee meeting as representatives of the the appropriate rate at which rebate is earned as this varies external auditors.
They also attended the 2013 AGM.
They provided dependent upon the volume or value purchased.
As a result of the the Committee with information and advice, aswellasrelevant review process the Committee concluded that the level of rebate reports on the financial statements and controls.
income and rebate receivable as at 31 July 2014 was properly In November 2013, the Committee reviewed and approved the reected in the consolidated financial statements.
terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the 2013 14 audit as set t The Committee considered the level of provisions for obsolete and out in the external auditors engagement letter.
During the year, PwC slow moving inventory as at 31 July 2014.
This is predominantly provided audit related services such as regulatory and statutory a system-generated calculation comparing inventory on hand reporting.
PwC are expected to report to the Committee any material against expected future sales using historic experience as the departures from Group accounting policies and procedures that they basis for provisioning, along with the results of physical stockidentify during the course of their audit work.
None were found or counts performed by management.
The Committee ensured the reported in the financial year.
policy was consistently applied across the Group in the current PwCs 2013 14 External Audit Plan was approved in March 2014 and previous financial periods and sought the views of the auditors andhas been successfully completed at the date of this report.
before arriving at the conclusion that the provisions for obsolete and slow moving inventory were fairly stated.
t The Committee considered the provisions held and settlements made in relation to litigation disputes, potential product liability and environmental claims.
The Committee addressed this issue Wolseley plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Auditor appointment, effectiveness and tendering by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee also periodically reviews the level of fees incurred with PwC for non-audit work.
The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of During the year PwC were appointed to undertake non-audit work, the external auditors.
A survey of all the Groups finance teams is the details of which are set out below.
The decision to appoint them conducted.
Each team is asked to rate PwCs performance against was typically based on the merit of using PwCs existing knowledge a range of measures, including relating to the adequacy of planning, of both the Company and the Group and its importance in relation the sufciency of resource, the thoroughness of review and testing, to the advice sought on each relevant transaction.
This added value the adequacy and application of knowledge of the Group, the and saved fees in the process.
usefulness of feedback and the quality of reporting.
The Committee considered the 2013 year-end survey findings as part of its review.
PwC also provides specic assurance to the Committee on In addition during the year, the Committee also received and the arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its discussed the review by the Audit Quality Review of PwCs audit independence and objectivity, including an internal process to preof the Companys financial results for the year ended 31 July 2012. approve provision of non-audit services and the use of separate The Committee is satisfied that PwC continues to provide an teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group.
The Group Audit Partner, currently Stuart The Committee continues to be satisfied with their independence Watson, is required to rotate after a maximum of five years, key audit and objectivity.
partners after a maximum of seven years, and all other partners and Audit and non-audit fees senior team members after a maximum of 10 years.
The Committee discusses audit partner rotation with PwC on a regular basis.
The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 July 2014 together with a comparison to fees paid in the year ended 31 July 2013 are In 2010, the Company, which was newly incorporated, became the set out in the following table.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees holding company of the Group and PwC have been its auditors paid during the year ended 31 July 2013 can be found in note 3 to since then.
Prior to that PwC and its predecessor rms had been the consolidated financial statements on page 116. the auditors of the previous holding company of the Group now a subsidiary of the Company since before the Company first listed Non-audit fees Audit fees Non-audit fees Fees paid as a percentage on the London Stock Exchange in 1961.
There is no record of any Financial year total total total of audit fees tender of the audit contract.
1 2014 3.4 million 1.4 million 4.8 million 41.2% Last year I said that, subject to the continued satisfactory 2 2013 3.4 million 2.2 million 5.6 million 64.7% performance of PwC, it was the intention to tender the external 1 1.2 million of the non-audit fees related to taxation work and 0.2 million of the non-audit fees audit during the financial year ending 31 July 2016.
The Committee related to other services.
is mindful of the requirement that the external audit is put out to 2 1.8 million of the non-audit fees related to taxation work and 0.4 million of the non-audit fees tender every 10 years, introduced following changes to the Code in related to other services.
2012, and of the new regulatory environment which will soon place The non-audit services related mainly to assistance on tax advisory an obligation on listed companies to rotate their auditor periodically.
and compliance matters and other assurance engagements, Our intention to tender the external audit during 2015 2016 remains including corporate responsibility reporting.
These services were the same as last year.
In view of this, and as PwC has continued to provided within the constraints of the Audit Practices Board Ethical perform satisfactorily, the Committee did not consider it necessary Standards on Auditing andwere assessed on a case-by-case basis to conduct a tender process for the appointment of the Companys so that the best placed adviser was retained.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
Internal audit Auditor independence and objectivity The scope of activity of internal audit is monitored and reviewed The Company has policies and procedures in place to ensure at each Committee meeting.
An annual plan was agreed by the that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is Committee inMay 2014 which covers the activities to July 2015. not impaired.
These include restrictions on the types of services During the year, the Head of Internal Audit attended each Committee which the external auditor can provide, in line with the APB Ethical meeting where his reports were reviewed and discussed in detail.
Details of the services that the external The Committee considered the matters raised and the adequacy of auditors cannot be engaged to perform are provided on the managements response to them, including the time taken to resolve Wolseley plc website www.
When considering the award of non-audit work an assessment is In March 2014, the Committee conducted the annual review of the made of which service provider would be best placed to undertake effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, including its it.
Appointments are made on a case-by-case basis.
The prior terms of reference, its audit plans, its general performance and its consent of the Chairman of the Committee is required before PwC relationship with the external auditors.
This review was undertaken is appointed to undertake non-audit work where the proposed fee using guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants is in excess of a level set by the Committee.
At each meeting the in England and Wales and the Institute of Internal Auditors UK.
Committee reviews all PwC engagements to undertake non-audit The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the work commenced in the preceding period, including those approved Internal Audit function.
Wolseley plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Audit Committee continued Whistleblowing and fraud Risk The Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports the Group-wide Risk management Code of Conduct, is monitored by the Committee.
A copy of the Risk management reports, prepared by the Group Head of Risk Groups Code of Conduct is available on the Wolseley plc website and Compliance, were submitted to the Committee in September www.
The Committee received reports at each 2013 and March 2014.
These reports summarise submissions from Committee meeting providing details of matters reported through all areas of the business which the Executive Committee and senior the Groups international condential telephone reporting lines and management have reviewed.
They identify the significant risks to the secure website reporting facility, which are operated on its behalf by Group, the controls in place and highlight the tolerance levels that the an independent third party.
All matters reported are investigated by Executive Committee is prepared to accept.
In May 2014, the Audit the relevant operating company and, where appropriate, reported to Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys overall risk the Committee, together with details of any corrective action taken.
management framework, including the generic procedures for risk The Committee also received reports at each Committee meeting identication, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting.
providing details of fraud losses in each quarter.
Internal controls Audit Committee priorities for 2014 15 During the year the Committee monitored and reviewed the 2014 15 priorities effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting Continue to review and monitor the approach to risk management policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk and the level of risk driven through changes to the business model, management procedures and compliance controls, as well as the industry changes and technological developments.
Companys statements on internal controls, before they were agreed Continue to monitor and review cyber security and planned major by the Board for this Annual Report.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage Continue to focus on finance systems transformation.
rather than eliminate business risk.
They provide reasonable Prepare for and implement any relevant regulatory changes to Audit but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or Committee governance.
Such systems are necessary to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets and depend on regular Prepare in 2014 15 for external audit tender in 2015 16. evaluation of the extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
The Committee is assured that the Companys systems As at the date of this report, the Committee has already begun to comply with the guidance set out in the FRC Guidance on Risk implement a number of these action points.
The Committee can confirm that the Companys systems and their effectiveness have been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved, and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Committee is of the view that the Company has a well-designed Michael Wareing CMG system of internal control.
on behalf of the Audit Committee The Chairman of the Committee reports any matters arising from the Committees review to the Board following each meeting.
This update covers the way in which the risk management and internal control processes are applied and on any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these processes.
There were no significant failings or weaknesses identied.
These processes have been in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2014 and have continued to the date of this report.
Full details of how the business implements its risk management and controls on a Group-wide basis are set out in the section on Principal risks and their management on pages 42 to 47.
Wolseley plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
