Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder Gareth Davis Chairman What the Committee has done during the year An overview of the Committees 2013 14 objectives and how the Committee has progressed against these objectives is set out below: 2013 14 objectives Achievements Continue to review the During the year, the Committee assessed balance, experience and the balance of skills and experience of Members and attendance eligibility skills of the Board.
It identied that the Board atmeetings held during the year ended would benefit from having more members 31July2014: with retail and international business Committee members Meeting attendance and eligibility experience.
In addition, the Committee considered that it would be appropriate G Davis Chairman 3 3 for the Board to include potential T Bamford 3 3 successors for the roles ofthe chairs of P Lpez 3 3 the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
1 The Committee achieved this objective A Murray 2 3 with the appointment of three new Non 2 M Wareing 3 3 Executive Directors in May 2014.
Members who joined during the year: Monitor the Companys A diversity policy has been adopted, 3 J Daly 1 1 progress in developing its details of which are below.
D Shapland 2 2 3 J Simmonds 1 1 Board composition Members who left during the year: 4 As I explained in my Chairmans statement on page 9, during M Clarke 1 1 this financial year, the Committee has continued to review the 4 A Duff 0 0 composition and experience of the Board and its Committees to 1 Due to illness, Alan Murray was unable to attend one Committee meeting.
ensurethat the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and 2 Michael Wareing will step down as a Non Executive Director with effect from 25 November 2014. breadth of experience.
It identied that the Board would benefit 3 Darren Shapland was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 May 2014.
John Daly and from having more members with retail and international business JackySimmonds were appointed as Non Executive Directors on 21 May 2014. experience.
In addition, the Committee considered that it would 4 Andrew Duff stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 26 November 2013.
Michael Clarkestepped down as a Non Executive Director on 21 March 2014. beappropriate for the Board to include potential successors for theroles ofthe chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
As a result of the review, the Committee undertook asearch for threenew Non Executive Directors.
In accordance with our procedure for selecting and recruiting Directors, prior to engaging external recruitment consultants to undertake a search for suitable candidates, the Committee identied the key skills and experience required for the new appointments.
The Committee then retained external search agencies, Zygos and Inzito, with whom the Company has no other connection, to assist in the process of identifying potential candidates for nomination to the Board.
The Company does not use open advertising to search for suitable candidates for Non Executive Director positions, as we believe thatthe optimal way of recruiting for these positions is to use targeted recruitment based on the skills and experience required.
I am pleased that, as a result of this search, we were able to appoint three excellent new Non Executive Directors: John Daly, Darren Shapland and Jacky Simmonds.
Wolseley plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Nominations Committee continued Over the last three years, we have remained supportive of the voluntary approach as an effective way to encourage companies to improve gender diversity in boardrooms.
With Jackys appointment, I am pleased to confirm that we now have three women Board members and have met the gender diversity recommendations setout in Lord Davies report, Women on Boards, ahead of the 2015 deadline.
Lord Davies recommended that women should account for at least 25 per cent of Board membership and 27 per cent of your Board are women.
This has increased from 20 per cent in July 2013 and 12.5 per cent in July 2012.
Diversity One of the core values of Wolseley is that we value our people.
We aim to recruit, retain and develop a high quality, diverse workforce.
To achieve our objectives we will always appoint or hire the best candidates available from the widest range of knowledge, skills and experience.
The diversity of our people whether in terms of gender, race andethnicity, religious or political beliefs, marital status, sexual orientation, age, disability, culture, background or any other measure strengthens our diversity of thought, which is vital to the growth and success of our business.
We are committed to providing our employees with an inclusive work environment in which diversity is valued, discrimination in any form is not tolerated, and in which all our people feel empowered to reach their full potential.
Details of our current gender diversity statistics are set out on page 49.
Effectiveness The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out in May 2014.
The review concluded that the Committee was pragmatic and discussion at meetings was open.
The review also highlighted areas for improvement and we have incorporated these into our priorities for 2014 15 as set out below.
At the 2014 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the Committees activities.
Nominations Committee priorities for 2014 15 2014 15 priorities Continue to review the balance, experience and skills of the Board.
Continue to monitor executive and senior leadership succession.
Gareth Davis on behalf of the Nominations Committee Wolseley plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
