Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Board of Directors as at 31 July 2014 Gareth Davis Ian Meakins John Martin Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Appointed on 1 July 2003 and became Chairman on Appointed on 13 July 2009.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general management experience Extensive operational and financial management experience: Extensive international board and general management in brand, retail and wholesale distribution management: strategic MrMartin has significant experience of cost control, driving experience, having served on various company boards for vision and extensive operational leadership.
productivity, finance and systems transformation programmes, manyyears.
leading business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, Experience capital efficiency, tax, treasury and compliance activities.
Experience Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief Executive of Travelex Experience Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco industry and was Holdings Ltd, the international foreign exchange and payments ChiefExecutive of Imperial Tobacco Group plc from its business.
Previously he was Chief Executive officer of Alliance Mr Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the Company incorporation in 1996 until May 2010.
UniChem plc until its merger with Boots in July 2006 and prior to asChiefFinancial officer on 1 April 2010 and assumed that, between 2000 and 2004, was President, European Major management responsibility for Wolseley Canada from Committee membership Markets and Global Supply for Diageo plc, spending over August2013.
He was previously a partner at Alchemy Partners, Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the 12years with the company in a variety of international the private equity group, and prior to that was Chief Financial Major Announcements Committee.
officer with Travelex Group and Hays Plc, the business services group.
Mr Martin started his career at Arthur Andersen before External appointments Committee membership joining The Stationery Ofce Group, on its privatisation, where Chairman of William Hill PLC and DS Smith Plc.
Chairman of the Executive Committee and a member of the hewas Group Controller.
Major Announcements, Treasury and Disclosure Committees.
Committee membership External appointments Chairman of the Major Announcements, Disclosure and Treasury Non Executive Director of Centrica plc.
Committees and a member of the Executive Committee.
Pilar Lpez Alan Murray Darren Shapland Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointed on 1 January 2013.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong financial and international experience within global Considerable international operational experience and extensive Considerable commercial operational and financial management businesses.
executive management experience within global businesses.
experience in major retail businesses.
Experience Experience Experience Ms Lpez is currently Global Simplication Director for Telefnica Mr Murray has been a member of the Supervisory Board of Mr Shapland joined the board of Poundland Group plc in S. A.
From 2007 to 2014 she was Chief Financial officer for HeidelbergCement AG since 2010 and was previously a Non February 2014 and was appointed Chairman in July 2014.
She is also a member of the Supervisory Executive Director of International Power plc between 2007 and He was previously Chief Executive officer of Carpetright plc Board of Telefnica Deutschland Holding AG.
Prior to that, he spent 19 years at Hanson plc and was between 2012 and 2013.
Prior to that Mr Shapland was Telefnica in 1999, working in a number of finance and strategy Group Chief Executive between 2002 and 2007.
From 2007 until JSainsbury plc Chief Financial officer from 2005 to 2010 positions across the European and Latin American businesses.
the end of 2008 he was a member of the Management Board of beforesubsequently becoming Group Development Director Prior to this she worked in a variety of roles at J. P. Morgan, HeidelbergCement AG.
Mr Murray is a qualied chartered from 2010 to 2011.
He was also Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
inMadrid, London and New York where she became a management accountant.
Previously Mr Shapland was Group Finance Director of VicePresident.
Carpetright plc between 2002 and 2005, Finance Director Committee membership ofSuperdrug Stores plc between 2000 and 2002 and held Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until 31 July 2014. avariety of operational management and finance positions Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Senior Independent Director.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration withthe Burton Group and Arcadia.
Committee membership External appointments External appointments Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 25 November Global Simplication Director for Telefnica S. A.
Member of Member of the Supervisory Board of HeidelbergCement AG.
Member of the Audit Committee until 25 November 2014. theSupervisory Board and Audit Committee of Telefnica Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Deutschland Holding AG.
External appointments Chairman of Poundland Group plc and Maplin Electronics Limited.
Non Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Ladbrokes plc.
Wolseley plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Frank Roach Tessa Bamford John Daly Chief Executive officer, USA Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointed on 16 December 2005.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong business and operational leadership: management of Extensive City experience having held senior advisory roles in Considerable international business and executive management subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Business development and wide both the UK and USA across a range of sectors.
experience in a variety of senior leadership roles within major ranging sales experience.
Experience Experience Experience Ms Bamford was formerly a Director of Cantos Communications, Mr Roach is Chief Executive officer of Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. the online communications service provider, from 2001 to 2011.
Mr Daly has over three decades of business and management and responsible for all of the Groups businesses based in the Previously she was a Director of J Henry Schroder & Co, where experience, including the last 14 years with British American USA.
He first joined Ferguson in 1976 and has held a number of she worked for 12 years in a number of roles between 1986 and Tobacco Plc BAT in a variety of senior leadership roles running business roles.
In 2005, Mr Roach was appointed as Senior Vice 1998.
Prior to that, Ms Bamford worked in corporate finance for large international businesses.
He recently stepped down as President of the Wolseley North America management team, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Chief Operating officer of BAT, a position he held for three years, playing a key part in further developing and expanding the although he remains a Non Executive Director of Reynolds Committee membership Groups North American businesses and joined the Board American Inc. a BAT associate company in the USA.
Prior to that Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations in2005.
Mr Daly was BATs Regional Director for Asia Pacic, a position Committees.
he held for six years based in Hong Kong.
In 1994 Mr Daly joined Committee membership Rothmans Internationals Irish subsidiary P J Carroll & Co and External appointments Member of the Executive Committee.
spent five years in a variety of leadership positions, predominantly Consultant at Spencer Stuart.
Non Executive Director of Barratt in sales and marketing.
In 1998 he was appointed as Managing External appointments Developments plc.
Director of Rothmans Japan and South Korea businesses.
Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
External appointments Non Executive Director of Reynolds American Inc. Jacky Simmonds Michael Wareing CMG Richard Shoylekov Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Appointed on 21 May 2014.
Appointed on 1 October 2009 and will step down on Appointed on 9 November 2007.
Key strengths Responsibilities Key strengths Extensive executive remuneration and human resources Mr Shoylekov, a solicitor, has responsibility for the Groups experience within large international businesses.
Comprehensive board and financial management experience: legal affairs, risk management and corporate responsibility significant commercial and international experience, having programme.
Experience served in various advisory roles.
Committee membership Ms Simmonds is currently Group HR Director of TUI Travel plc, Experience aposition she has held since 2010.
She is also a member of the Secretary to the Board and all Committees of the Board.
Supervisory Board of TUI Deutschland, GmbH and a Director of Mr Wareing was International Chief Executive of KPMG from Member of the Major Announcements, Disclosure and PEAK Adventure Travel Group Limited.
She was previously a 2005 until he retired in September 2009, having previously been Executive Committees.
divisional HR Director of First Choice Holidays PLC until the Chief Executive of KPMGs Europe, Middle East and Africa business was merged with Tui AG in 2007 to form TUI Travel PLC.
Throughout his career Mr Wareing has been closely From 2007 to 2010 she was HR Director for TUI UK.
involved with a number of charities and public bodies.
He was formerly the Prime Ministers Special Envoy for the reconstruction Committee membership of Southern Iraq.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee since 31 July 2014.
Committee membership Member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the External appointments Remuneration and Nominations Committees until Group HR Director of TUI Travel plc.
Board of TUI Deutschland, GmbH and a Director of PEAK External appointments Adventure Travel Group Limited.
Non Executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director for Cobham plc and Intertek Group plc.
Economic Development Adviser to the Government of Afghanistan.
Wolseley plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
