How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy The Compensation Committee would like to present the Executive Remuneration Policy.
This is the policy that was approved by share owners at the 2014 AGM.
It is the intention of the committee that this policy will be maintained for three years from approval, assuming no changes are required.
The policy is subject to periodic reviews during its operation.
The committee believes that this policy continues to align with the Companys mission statement and business objectives and no changes are being put to share owners for consideration at this years AGM.
WPPs compensation philosophy Our mission statement and our six business objectives shape our compensation philosophy.
Broadly, our Executive Remuneration Policy is determined by three guiding principles: performance-driven reward: competitiveness: and alignment with share owner interests.
Specifically, our six business objectives as set out on page 35 are reflected in the design of our compensation plans as set out below: WPPs six business objectives Alignment with compensation structure Continue to improve operating margins on net sales Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive and Group finance director 1 Increase flexibility in the cost structure Short-term incentive measure for the Group finance director 2 Use free cash flow to enhance share owner value TSR, EPS growth and average ROE are long-term incentive and improve return on capital employed measures for the executive directors 3 Continue to develop the value added by the parent Short-term incentive measures parent company-led company efficiency projects for the Group finance director 4 Emphasise revenue and net sales growth more Short-term incentive measures for the Group chief executive as margins improve and Group finance director Group and 5 chief executive, WPP Digital Digital Improve still further the creative capabilities Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive and reputation of all our businesses 6 The Executive Remuneration Policy is designed to attract and retain the best-in-class talent.
The policy looks to incentivise the directors to develop the skills of the Groups employees in order to consistently exceed our clients expectations.
The policys objective is to drive and reward sustainable and exceptional performance, thereby producing long-term value for share owners.
In applying this policy, the committee takes into account the pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, which in turn are informed by general market conditions and internal factors such as the performance of the Group or relevant business unit.
Considerations taken into account when setting our Executive Remuneration Policy Employment conditions at WPP When reviewing changes to the compensation levels for the directors, the committee considers any changes in light of the increases awarded across the Group over a relevant period of time, in conjunction with the other factors set out in the policy table.
The committee did not consult employees when drawing up this Executive Remuneration Policy.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 143 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Share owner views WPP continues to engage openly with share owners and institutional investors to discuss matters relating to compensation.
The feedback received during these conversations is valuable and is among the factors that inform the decisions made by the committee.
During 2013, the committee consulted with share owners on the design of the EPSP.
The selection of performance measures took account of the feedback received.
More generally, formal and informal share owner feedback was used by the committee when drafting this Executive Remuneration Policy.
Glossary The following are acronyms used throughout the policy: Acronym Definition DEPs Dividend Equivalent Payments DSUs Deferred Stock Units EPSP Executive Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan introduced in 2013 ESA Executive Share Award the part of the STIP that is deferred into shares ExSOP Executive Stock Option Plan Good Leaver Broadly, when an individual is dismissed other than for cause the particular meaning applicable to each share plan can be found in the relevant rules LEAP Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan long-term incentive plan used to grant awards until the end of 2012 RSP Restricted Stock Plan STIP Short-term Incentive Plan the annual incentive plan comprising a cash bonus and an ESA Executive Remuneration Policy table executive directors The following table sets out details of the ongoing compensation elements for WPPs executive directors.
Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Fixed elements of compensation Base salary and fees Base salary and fee levels are Company and personal performance Under normal To maintain package reviewed every two years or following will be taken into account during the circumstances base salary competitiveness and a significant change in the scope review process.
and fees will increase by reflect skills and of a role.
no more than the local experience.
rate of inflation over the Levels are determined by taking a period since last review.
number of relevant factors into account including individual and business In the event of a promotion performance, level of experience, or a significant change scope of responsibility, compensation in the scope of the role, practices across the Group and or changes in sector the competitiveness of total competitive pay or the compensation against both our need to counter a competitors and companies of competitive external a similar size and complexity.
offer, the committee may exceed this limit.
WPP 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Short-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 149 and 150 Cash bonus, Executive Overview 70% subject to financial performance, Group chief executive: Share Awards ESA The committee may invite executives either at a Group and or divisional 435% of base salary To drive the achievement to participate in the STIP under which level depending on the role.
of business priorities for a bonus can be made subject to 30% subject to personal objectives Other executive directors: the financial year and performance measured over the linked to the strategy of WPP or 300% of base salary to motivate, retain and financial year.
Bonus opportunity the relevant business area.
reward executives over is determined as a percentage of the medium term, while salary and fees.
The committee will use its The value of any accrued maximising alignment judgement in assessing performance dividends will vary Performance measures and targets are with share owner interests.
relative to targets and expectations depending on the size reviewed and set annually to ensure communicated at the start of the year of the ESA awarded, continuing strategic alignment.
and will consider unforeseen factors dividends declared Achievement levels are determined that may have impacted performance and share price over following year-end by the committee, during the period.
based on performance against targets.
Vesting schedule Executive directors bonuses are The following table sets out the level delivered in the form of a cash award of bonus payable for threshold and and a deferred share award ESA, the target performance as a percentage latter constituting at least 50% of the of maximum.
Vesting operates on a total bonus achieved.
The ESA will vest straight-line basis between these points.
after a minimum of two years subject to continued employment, together Target with additional shares in respect of as percentage accrued dividends.
Threshold of maximum Sir Martin Judgement Sorrell 0% 50% The committee will use its judgement to set the performance measures and Other executive targets annually.
directors 0% 67% Malus provisions ESA The committee has the ability to reduce any unvested ESA in certain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related remuneration.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 145 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Long-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 149 and 150 Executive Performance Overview One-third relative TSR.
Conditional awards: Share Plan EPSP Executives may receive an annual One-third headline EPS growth.
Plan maximum: 9.75 times To incentivise long-term conditional award expressed as a One-third average ROE.
performance and to focus percentage of base salary and fees.
All measures are assessed Group chief executive: on long-term retention and Executives may also receive an award independently of each other.
9.75 times base salary strategic priorities, while in respect of the number of reinvested and fees.
maximising alignment dividends proportionate to the amount TSR is measured on a marketwith share owner interests.
of the award vesting, the dividends capitalisation weighted basis against Other directors: four times declared during the performance a peer group of business competitors base salary and fees.
period and the share price at the time that are selected according to size and the dividend is declared.
Awards will The value of accrued relevance.
This peer group is reviewed vest subject to performance, measured dividends will vary annually at the start of each cycle to over a period of five consecutive depending on the ensure it remains robust, appropriate financial years.
level of vesting, and relevant in light of WPPs business dividends declared mix.
Half of the TSR element is In respect of merger and acquisition and share price over measured on a local currency basis, activity within the peer group, the the performance period.
half on a common currency basis.
committee has an established and operated policy that TSR outcomes EPS is defined as WPPs headline, should not be impacted by the fully diluted, earnings per share.
The speculation or actuality of takeovers EPS performance is calculated by of peer group companies including taking the aggregate EPS over the WPP.
This policy includes a minimum performance period and calculating listing requirement, an approach for the the compound annual growth from reinvestment of proceeds from shares the financial year preceding the start of companies that delist during the of the period.
performance period and parameters for companies subject to bid ROE is calculated as fully diluted EPS speculation.
Details of how this policy divided by the average balance sheet is implemented will be disclosed each per share value of share owners equity year in the relevant Annual Report.
Discretions Vesting schedule In accordance with the EPSP rules that Awards will vest on a straight-line basis were approved by share owners at the from 20% for threshold performance 2013 AGM, if the committee considers and 100% for maximum performance.
that there has been an exceptional event or that there have been exceptional circumstances during a performance period that have made it materially easier or harder for the Company to achieve a performance measure, the committee may adjust the extent to which an award vests to mitigate the effect of the exceptional event or circumstances.
Malus provisions The committee has the ability to reduce any unvested EPSP award in certain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related remuneration.
WPP 146 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Long-term incentives legacy plans with unvested awards Leadership Equity Overview 100% relative TSR measured on The following maximum Acquisition Plan III Executives were invited to participate a  weighted, levels applied at the LEAP III in the plan annually by the committee.
No further To incentivise long-term In order to participate, individuals awards can be granted Vesting schedule performance and to focus must have committed to hold an under LEAP III, and none The following table sets out the level of on long-term retention and investment level in WPP shares which have been made since award that will vest for threshold and strategic priorities, while is determined by the committee, 2012. target performance as a percentage maximising alignment subject to an overall maximum, and of maximum.
Investment: one times with share owner interests.
must be held for the full five-year an executive directors performance period.
Investment levels Threshold Maximum total target earnings were determined by the committee, base salary and fees All subject to an overall maximum.
executive final number of matching shares will directors 30% 100% be awarded, proportionate to the Award: Five times investment, dependent on the an executive directors performance of WPP.
Executives may To achieve threshold vesting WPP investment.
also receive an award in respect of must outperform at least 50% of the the number of reinvested dividends The value of accrued market-cap weighted peer group: proportionate to the amount of the dividends will vary to achieve maximum vesting WPP award vesting, the dividends declared depending on the level must outperform at least 90% of the during the performance period and of vesting, dividends market-cap weighted peer group.
the share price at the time the dividend declared and share price is declared.
The Plan was closed over the investment and to the grant of new awards at performance period.
Discretions Following the end of the performance period, the committee undertakes a fairness review to determine whether any exceptional events have impacted the outcome and that the resulting match is in line with financial performance relative to the comparator group and the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Merger and acquisition activity will be treated in accordance with the policy set out under the EPSP above.
Malus provisions The committee has the ability to reduce any unvested LEAP III award in certain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performancerelated remuneration.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 147 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Other items in the nature of compensation Dividend Equivalent The Company has previously received No longer subject to a performance The value of any accrued Payments DEPs share owner approval to allow Sir requirement as this was assessed at dividends will vary on the DSUs Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of the the point of vesting in 1999. depending on the To ensure that Sir Martin DSUs.
The Company makes a cash dividends declared during Sorrell receives an amount payment to Sir Martin Sorrell of an the deferral period.
equal to the dividends amount equal to the dividends that that would be payable would have been due on the shares if he had taken receipt of comprising the DSUs.
and retained the shares underlying the DSUs.
Benefits The following benefits are payable Not applicable.
Set at a level that the To enable the executives in relation to travel and the dual committee feels is required to undertake their role by headquarter split between the UK and in order for the executive ensuring their well-being the US to some all of the executive to carry out their role.
The provision of these benefits maximum payable will reflects external competitive practice, not significantly exceed the complex nature of the Group and the payments made the significant amount of time spent in 2013, although the travelling by the executives.
committee may pay more than this if the cost The typical benefits that executive of providing the same directors receive may include a car benefits increases, or if and or car allowance plus the use of the executive relocates.
a driver as required: medical, life and disability insurance: accommodation allowance in lieu of hotel expenses: tax and legal advice: home office support: club memberships deemed necessary for the role: and spousal travel.
Other benefits, such as those linked to the relocation of an executive, may be provided depending on the prevailing circumstances.
Pension Pension is provided by way of Not applicable.
Group chief executive: To enable provision for contribution to a defined contribution 40% of base salary personal and dependant arrangement, or a cash allowance, and fees.
determined as a percentage of base Other executive directors: salary and fees.
WPP 148 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Notes to the policy table EPSP Operational targets under the EPSP are set taking into account a combination of factors, but primarily internal Plan rules forecasts, analysts expectations albeit, the period over which analysts forecast is generally shorter than the Copies of the various plan rules are available for inspection five-year performance period and historical performance at the Companys registered office and head office.
Executive Remuneration Policy table provides a summary Relative TSR targets are set to ensure they are more of the key provisions relating to their ongoing operation.
stretching than UK norms and require out-performance The committee has the authority to ensure that any awards of our peers at median before any reward is triggered.
being granted, vested or lapsed are treated in accordance with the plan rules which are more extensive than the Cascade to WPP Group pay policy summary set out in the table.
As well as setting the policy for the executive directors, Selection of performance measures the Compensation Committee is also responsible for reviewing the policy for the most senior people at WPP STIP outside the Board.
Performance measures are selected by the committee on the Compensation packages for these individuals are basis of their alignment to Group strategy and are the key normally reviewed every 18 24 months.
As with the measures to oversee the operation of the business.
Measures Executive Remuneration Policy, the WPP Group pay policy are reviewed annually by the committee taking into account ensures a clear and direct link between the performance of business performance and priorities.
the Group or relevant operating company and compensation.
Substantial use of performance-driven compensation not EPSP only ensures the continued alignment of the interests of share EPS growth is a measure that is important for both owners and senior individuals within the Group, but also management and our share owners, capturing growth in enables the Group to attract, retain and motivate the talented revenue and earnings.
ROE is similarly important, and people upon whom our success depends.
provides a positive counterbalance and risk management WPP is committed to encouraging strong performance mechanism through the focus on both growth and capital through a reward system that aligns managements interests efficiencies.
With the inclusion of relative TSR, the plan with those of share owners.
also takes account of share owner views of how WPP has From a compensation perspective, this is encouraged in performed relative to the companies in the peer group.
a number of ways: senior executives participate in the same long-term Calibration of performance targets incentive plan as the executive directors, which is designed to incentivise growth, capital efficiency and share price STIP appreciation: and The performance targets for the STIP are set to incentivise share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders year-on-year growth and to reward strong, sustainable approximately the top 300 executives, all of whom performance.
Strategic targets are based upon the annual have stretching ownership goals.
The committee is of the view that the Across the workforce more broadly, many employees targets for the STIP are commercially sensitive and it would participate in bonus and commission plans based on the be detrimental to the Company to disclose them in advance performance of their employing company.
In addition, where of or during the relevant performance period.
The locally competitive, employees are provided with companycommittee will disclose those targets at the end of the sponsored pension plans and life assurance plans and a range relevant performance period in that years Annual Report, of other benefits.
In addition to these compensation elements, if those targets are no longer commercially sensitive.
the Company also uses share-based compensation across the workforce to incentivise, retain and recruit talent which encourages a strong ownership culture among employees.
The main share plans are described on the following page.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 149 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Restricted Stock Plan The RSP is used to satisfy awards under the short-term incentive plans including ESAs as well as to grant awards to management under the WPP Leaders, Partners and High Potential program.
In the program, awards are made to participants that vest three years after grant, provided the participant is still employed within the Group.
Executive directors are eligible to receive ESAs under the RSP, but ineligible to participate in any other aspect of the management share award program.
Executive Stock Option Plan The ExSOP is used to make special grants of options in order to attract or retain key talent.
Awards are made infrequently and executive directors are ineligible to participate, other than in a recruitment situation see page 153.
This plan will expire in 2015 and will be replaced by the WPP plc Share Option Plan 2015.
All-employee plan The Worldwide Ownership Plan is an all-employee plan that makes annual grants of stock options to employees with two years of service who work in wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Executive directors and management in receipt of other share awards are ineligible to participate in this plan.
WPP 150 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy How do these pay policies affect potential compensation packages?
These graphs seek to demonstrate how pay varies with performance.
The graphs are reflective of the pay policy at approval by share owners at the 2013 AGM.
There have been no changes to figures since the approval of the policy by share owners, except benefits and DEPs.
For consistency we have used the benefits and DEP figure from the year of approval by share owners 2013.
Sir Martin Sorrell 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 3,061 Minimum 39% 32% 29% On-plan 7,802 On-plan 16% 26% 58% Maximum 19,264 Maximum 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Paul Richardson 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum Minimum 1,022 34% 47% 19% On-plan 2,993 On-plan 17% 36% 47% Maximum 5,950 Maximum 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Mark Read 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 517 Minimum 40% 46% 14% On-plan 1,282 On-plan 22% 39% 39% 2,277 Maximum Maximum 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Fixed Short-term incentives Long-term incentives o o o WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 151 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy The graphs are informed by three performance scenarios and these, along with the assumptions used, are summarised below.
Fixed elements Consists of base salary and fees, benefits including DEPs and pension Base salary and fees reflect current levels which are unchanged from FY2013 Benefits and DEPs are consistent with the single figure table for FY2013 Pension reflects current levels which are unchanged from FY2013 000 Base salary & fees Benefits inc. DEPs Pension Total fixed Sir Martin Sorrell 1,150 1,451 40% 3,061 Paul Richardson 704 107 30% 1,022 Mark Read 440 11 15% 517 Short-term On-plan scenario assumes target bonus is paid incentives Maximum scenario assumes the full bonus is paid % of salary and fees Below threshold On-plan Maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 217.5% 435% Paul Richardson 0% 200% 300% Mark Read 0% 134% 200% Long-term On-plan scenario assumes threshold vesting of an award at the current policy level incentives Maximum scenario assumes full vesting of an award at the current policy level % of salary and fees Below threshold On-plan Maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 195% 974% Paul Richardson 0% 80% 400% Mark Read 0% 40% 200% Other executive director policies shares will continue to accrue in respect of dividends paid up to the point of exercise UK or vesting US.
The Company has also previously received share owner Legacy share awards and obligations approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of the UK and the US Deferred Stock Units Awards Agreements Under the Executive Remuneration Policy, outstanding DSUs.
These are the awards that originally vested in 1999, awards under LEAP III, the long-term incentive plan that having been granted in 1995 under the Capital Investment pre-dated the EPSP, and Sir Martin Sorrells deferred Plan.
The UK DSU is an option that can be exercised at awards will be paid in accordance with the terms agreed at any time until November 2017.
The US DSU will vest the time and set out in previous Compensation Committee on the earlier of the end of Sir Martins employment reports.
The key terms of Sir Martins deferred awards are with the Company, a change in control of the Company summarised below.
In accordance with share owner approval, Sir Martin Sorrell receives cash dividend Deferred awards Sir Martin Sorrell only equivalent payments DEPs in respect of these deferred awards as noted in the policy table.
The Company has previously received share owner approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of his UK and US 2004, 2005 and 2007 LEAP awards and the UK part of his 2006 and 2009 LEAP awards.
The UK awards are options that can be exercised at any time until November 2017.
The US awards will vest on the earlier of the end of Sir Martins employment with the Company, a change in control of the Company and 30 November 2017.
Additional WPP 152 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Share ownership guidelines Ongoing variable compensation The committee will seek to pay only that level of reward With effect from 2013 4, executive directors and other necessary to recruit the exceptional talent needed to lead members of the senior management team were subject to such a complex global group.
The actual level of incentive share ownership guidelines.
The implementation of these offered will be dependent on the role and existing package guidelines seeks to reinforce the WPP principle of alignment of the candidate.
The aggregate maximum face value for of managements interests with those of share owners.
annual shortand long-term variable compensation will The following levels of ownership are required to be be 10 times base salary and fees, which is materially lower achieved by the executive directors: than the current Group chief executive maximum level.
The committee retains the discretion to make awards % of base salary & fees on recruitment, within the policy limits, to provide Group chief executive 600% an immediate alignment of interest with the interests Group finance director 300% of share owners.
Chief executive, WPP Digital and minimum for any other Buy-out awards new executive appointed to The committee may consider buying-out remuneration the Board 200% entitlements that the individual has had to forfeit by Executive directors will be permitted a period of seven accepting the appointment.
The structure and value of the years from the date of their appointment to achieve the awards will be informed by the structure and value of those guideline level.
entitlements being forfeited, and the performance targets, In the event that an executive director fails to achieve time horizon and vehicle will be set in an appropriate the required levels of share ownership, the committee will manner at the discretion of the committee.
The intention of decide what remedial action or penalty is appropriate.
This the committee is that any award will take the form of WPP may involve a reduction in future share awards or requiring shares and will be subject to performance as far as possible.
the director to purchase shares in the market to meet the An announcement of the directors appointment, ownership guidelines.
detailing the incumbents compensation will be made on a timely basis through a regulatory information service and Appointments to the Board posted on the Companys website.
This section sets out details with respect to the appointment Service contracts of a new executive director to the Board of WPP, whether it The following terms will apply for any new executive role is an external or internal appointment.
appointed to the Board in the future.
Executives will normally be appointed on a notice Fixed compensation period of up to 12 months, although the committee retains Base salary and fees will be set taking into account a range the discretion to appoint an external candidate on a notice of factors, including the profile and prior experience of the period of up to 24 months reducing on a rolling basis to candidate, internal relativities, cost and external market 12 months such that after 12 months service the notice data.
If base salary and fees are set at a lower initial level period would have reverted to the standard 12 months.
contingent on individual performance, the committee retains At the committees discretion, any payment in lieu the discretion to realign the base salary and fees over a of notice will be restricted to base salary, fees, benefits phased period of one to three years following appointment, and pension.
which may result in an exceptional rate of annualised On termination there will be no entitlements when increase in excess of that set out in the policy table.
classified as a bad leaver defined within the incentive Other elements of fixed pay will be set in accordance plans.
Otherwise base salary, fees, benefits and pension with the policy table, and a new appointment may require allowance are payable as per the notice period and the the committee to rely on the authorised discretion as set committee will have the power to make phased payments out on page 148 to make payments related to relocation, that would be reduced or stopped if alternative employment for example, in order to facilitate the appointment.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 153 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Terms specific to internal appointments Shortand long-term compensation elements The committee can honour any pre-existing commitments If the executive director is dismissed for cause, there is not if an internal candidate is appointed to the Board.
an entitlement to a STIP award, and any unvested sharebased awards will lapse.
Otherwise, the table on page 155 Service contracts summarises the relevant provisions from the directors service contracts cash bonus and the plan rules RSP, The Companys policy on executive directors service EPSP and LEAP III, which apply in other leaver scenarios.
contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without As noted on page 149, the committee has the authority to a specific end date.
ensure that any awards that vest or lapse are treated in The effective dates and notice periods under the current accordance with the plan rules, which are more extensive executive directors service contracts are summarised below: than the summary set out in the table on page 155.
Effective from Notice period Sir Martin Sorrell 19 November 2008 At will Paul Richardson 19 November 2008 12 months Mark Read 19 November 2008 6 months Sir Martin Sorrells service contract may be terminated by either the Company or Sir Martin without any notice, and without any payment in lieu of notice.
The executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and head office.
Loss of office provisions Fixed compensation elements As noted above, the service contracts of Messrs Richardson and Read provide for notice to be given on termination.
The fixed compensation elements of their contracts will continue to be paid in respect of any notice period.
There are no provisions relating to payment in lieu of notice.
If an executive director is placed on garden leave, the committee retains the discretion to settle benefits in the form of cash.
The executive directors are entitled to compensation for any accrued and unused holiday although, to the extent it is possible and in share owner interests, the committee will encourage executive directors to use their leave entitlements, prior to the end of their notice period.
Except in respect of any remaining notice period, no aspect of any executive directors fixed compensation is payable on termination of employment.
Sir Martin Sorrells service contract contains an indemnity, subject to certain conditions relating to previously deferred awards, from WPP in respect of any US tax which is charged under section 280G as a result of a termination linked to a change in control of WPP.
Further details are on page 155.
WPP 154 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Cash bonus The executive directors are entitled to receive their bonus for any particular year provided they are employed on the last date of the performance period, except in the case of Mark Read, where he gives notice of termination or is dismissed for cause before the payment date.
ESA Provided the executive director is a Good Leaver, unvested awards will be reduced on a time pro-rata basis and paid on the vesting date.
EPSP The award will lapse if the executive leaves during the first year of a performance period.
Provided the executive director is a Good Leaver, awards will vest subject to performance at the end of the performance period and time pro-rating.
Awards will be paid on the normal date.
In exceptional circumstances, the Compensation Committee may determine that an award will vest on a different basis.
Generally, in the event of death, the performance conditions are to be assessed as at the date of death.
However, the committee retains the discretion to deal with an award due to a deceased executive on any other basis that it considers appropriate.
Awards will vest immediately on a change-of-control subject to performance and time pro-rating unless it is agreed by the committee and the relevant executive director that the outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent new awards.
LEAP III Awards will vest subject to performance at the end of the performance period and time pro-rating.
In the event of death or serious illness, the performance conditions are to be assessed as at the date of cessation of employment.
Awards will vest immediately on a change in control subject to performance and time pro-rating unless the committee decides that awards are to be exchanged for equivalent new awards.
In the event of a merger, the committee can require participants to release any outstanding award in consideration of the grant of an equivalent award by the newly-formed entity.
Other pre-existing terms that apply to Sir Martin Sorrell Sir Martin Sorrells deferred LEAP awards and his DSUs as set out on page 152 will be paid out unconditionally on termination of employment.
The performance requirements in respect of these awards have already been met, the awards have vested and are therefore no longer subject to any leaver provisions.
In the event any payments due to Sir Martin would be treated as deferred compensation in accordance with US legislation and subject to section 409A requirements, those payments will be delayed.
If those payments are delayed, an amount in respect of interest as a result of the delay will be due from the Company to Sir Martin.
In the event of a change of control of WPP, the Company has agreed to indemnify Sir Martin, with the prior approval of share owners, with respect to any related personal US tax liability under the provisions of section 280G.
This indemnity is subject to certain limitations that exempt the Company from liability for any tax related to the share-owner approved deferrals of certain awards.
Based on the most recent review by the committee in December 2013 of the potential impact of this clause, it is unlikely that any 280G payment would be due from the Company based on an analysis, using standard assumptions.
This was reviewed by independent counsel.
Other committee discretions not set out above Leaver status: the committee has the discretion to determine an executives leaver classification in light of the guidance set out within the relevant plan rules, except with respect to Sir Martin Sorrell.
Unless Sir Martin Sorrell is terminated for cause, he will be treated as having retired on leaving the Company and therefore be treated in accordance with the plan rules as a Good Leaver.
Compromise agreements: the committee is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives, informed by the default position set out above.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 155 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy External appointments Executive directors are permitted to serve as non-executives on the boards of other organisations.
If the Company is a share owner in that organisation, non-executive fees for those roles are waived.
However, if the Company is not a share owner in that organisation, any non-executive fees can be retained by the office holder.
Executive Remuneration Policy table chairman and non-executive directors The following table sets out details of the ongoing compensation elements for WPPs chairman and non-executive directors.
No element of pay is performance-linked.
Component and purpose Operation Maximum annual opportunity Base fees Fees are reviewed at least every two years and take into account the skills, An overall cap on To reflect the skills and experience and time required to undertake the role, as well as fee levels in all non-executive fees, experience and time similarly-sized UK companies.
excluding consultancy fees, required to undertake will apply consistent with The chairman and non-executive directors receive a base fee in connection the role.
the prevailing and share with their appointment to the Board.
owner-approved limit in the Articles of Association which, due to share owner approval at the 2014 AGM, is 3m.
Additional fees Non-executive directors are eligible to receive additional fees in respect An overall cap on all To reflect the additional of servingas: non-executive fees, time required in any excluding consultancy fees, Senior independent director additional duties for will apply consistent with Chairman of a Board Committee theCompany.
the prevailing and share Member of a Board Committee owner-approved limit in C onsultancy fees in respect of other work that falls outside the remit of their role the Articles of Association for the Company.
which, due to share owner approval at the 2014 AGM, is 3m.
Consultancy fees will be set on a discretionary basis, taking account of the nature of the role and time required.
Benefits and The Company will reimburse the chairman and non-executive directors for all Benefits and allowances for allowances reasonable and properly documented expenses incurred in performing their the chairman will be set at To enable the chairman duties of office.
a level that the committee and non-executive feels is required for the In the event that the reimbursement of these expenses gives rise to a personal tax directors to undertake performance of the role.
liability for the chairman or non-executive director, the Company retains the their roles.
discretion to meet this cost including, where appropriate, costs in relation to tax advice and filing.
While not currently offered, the Company retains the discretion to pay additional benefits to the chairman including, but not limited to, use of car, office space and secretarial support.
WPP 156 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Other chairman and non-executive director policies Letters of appointment for the chairman and non-executive directors Letters of appointment have a two-month notice period and there are no payments due on loss of office.
Appointments to the Board Letters of appointment will be consistent with the current terms as set out in this Annual Report.
The chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any variable pay.
Fees for any new non-executive directors will be consistent with the operating policy at their time of appointment.
In respect of the appointment of a new chairman, the committee has the discretion to set fees taking into account a range of factors including the profile and prior experience of the candidate, cost and external market data.
Payments in exceptional circumstances In truly unforeseen and exceptional circumstances, the committee retains the discretion to make emergency payments which might not otherwise be covered by this policy.
The committee will not use this power to exceed the recruitment policy limit, nor will awards be made in excess of the limits set out in the Executive Remuneration Policy table.
An example of such an exceptional circumstance could be the untimely death of a director, requiring another director to take on an interim role until a permanent replacement is found.
