How we comply Corporate governance: How the Company is governed, including risk management and activities of the Board Statements of compliance UK Corporate Governance Code compliance The Board considers that WPP complied in all material respects throughout 2014 with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Internal control WPP operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report and the FRC guidance on risk management.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 167 How we comply Corporate governance How we comply For ease of reference we have structured this section around the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Leadership The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to share owners for the Groups financial and operational performance and risk management.
Responsibility for the development and implementation of Group policy and strategy and for day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board to the Group chief executive and Group finance director.
The list of matters reserved to the Board can be downloaded from the website wpp.
During 2014, the Board met six times formally and held 20 committee meetings throughout the year.
Compensation Nomination and Attendance of directors at meetings Board Audit Committee Committee Governance Committee 1 Philip Lader chairman 6 9 6 5 Sir Martin Sorrell 6 Paul Richardson 6 Mark Read 6 Roger Agnelli 6 8 6 4 Jacques Aigrain 6 9 6 2 Charlene Begley 6 9 2 Colin Day 6 9 5 3 Esther Dyson 3 3 3 Orit Gadiesh 2 2 Ruigang Li 6 4 4 Nicole Seligman 5 5 Daniela Riccardi 6 6 Jeffrey Rosen 6 9 6 5 Hugo Shong 5 8 5 4 Sir John Hood 6 6 Tim Shriver 5 4 5 Sally Susman 6 5 Sol Trujillo 6 9 6 1 By invitation, the chairman attended all of the Audit Committee meetings.
2 Charlene Begley was appointed to the Nomination and Governance Committee on 17 February 2014.
3 Orit Gadiesh and Esther Dyson retired in June 2014.
WPP 168 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we comply Corporate governance The role of the chairman Effectiveness The Board is chaired by Philip Lader, who chairs the Nomination and Governance Committee and at the invitation The composition of the Board of the chairmen of the Audit and Compensation Committees The Board is now composed of 17 directors, with at attended all meetings of those committees.
The chairman least three non-executive directors, including the Board provides the leadership of the Board and is the main point chairman, planning to retire at the AGM in 2015.
Two of contact between the Board and the management team.
current members are executive directors and 15, including The chairman represents the Board in discussions with share the chairman, are non-executive directors.
Following these owners and investor bodies, ensures that systems are in place changes, the Board will comprise 14 directors, of which 12 to provide directors with timely and accurate information, are non-executive directors and two are executive directors.
represents the Company in external gatherings, and is also The independence of each non-executive director is assessed responsible for the Board governance principles.
He has annually by the Board.
The Board has confirmed that all of led the Board recruitment and appointment process, the non-executives standing for re-election at the 2015 AGM determination and periodic revision of confidential leadership continue to demonstrate the characteristics of independence.
plans for potential emergencies, and the ongoing emphasis on management development and CEO succession planning.
Succession: Board and committee membership Philip Lader plans to retire from the Board during As a consequence of the review of Board composition 2015 and will be succeeded by Roberto Quarta subject to commenced in 2012 the composition of the Board and his election by share owners at the Annual General Meeting the committees has been refreshed.
AGM and on his retirement from the Board of IMI plc.
The Compensation Committee chairman, Jeffrey Rosen, stepped down as chairman of the committee at The role of the senior independent director the 2014 AGM and was succeeded by Sir John Hood.
The senior independent director is Jeffrey Rosen who is Colin Day will be succeeded by Jacques Aigrain as available to share owners and acts as a sounding board for chairman of the Audit Committee on his retirement at the the chairman and as an intermediary for the other directors 2015 AGM.
Jacques Aigrain has been a member of the with the chairman when necessary.
The senior independent Audit Committee since joining the Board in May 2013. directors role includes responsibility for the chairmans Roberto Quarta will succeed Philip Lader as chairman appraisal and succession.
Jeffrey Rosen has been the senior of the Nomination and Governance Committee, independent director since April 2010 and will be retiring at the same time as he takes over as chairman of the Group.
His replacement will be announced later Mark Read stepped down from the Board on in the year.
1 February 2015 to focus on his executive responsibilities as CEO for both Wunderman and WPP Digital.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors have a diverse range of skills, Time commitment experience and backgrounds.
As detailed in their biographies Letters of appointment for non-executive directors do not on pages 108 to 111, the non-executive directors work across set out a fixed time commitment for Board attendance and the globe in media and advertising, investment banking and duties but give an indication of the likely time required.
It is investment management, pharmaceuticals, mining, logistics anticipated that the time required by directors will fluctuate and bioenergy, airlines, FMCG, international management depending on the demands of the business and other events.
consulting, private equity and angel investing, business education, manufacturing, consumer products and retail Development management, internet start-ups, government and non-profit On joining WPP, non-executive directors are given organisations.
They provide constructive challenge and an induction which includes one-to-one meetings with assistance to the Group chief executive in developing the management and the external auditors, briefings on the Groups strategy.
All directors have access to the services duties of directors of a Jersey company, the Model Code, of the Company Secretary and may take independent WPP Code of Conduct and the UK Corporate Governance professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting Code.
The induction also covers the Board committees that a their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover for its director will join.
All directors are fully briefed on important directors and officers.
developments in the various business activities which the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 169 How we comply Corporate governance Group carries out worldwide and regularly receive extensive executive directors, 31% of Board members and executive information concerning the Groups operations, finances, leaders in the subsidiaries, 46% of senior managers risk factors and its people, enabling them to fulfil their duties and 54% of total employees.
Following the retirement and obligations as directors.
The directors are also frequently of Mark Read on 1 February 2015 and Philip Lader, advised on regulatory and best practice requirements which Colin Day and Jeffrey Rosen at the 2015 AGM, women affect the Groups businesses on a global basis.
One Board will comprise 29% of the WPP Board and 33% of nonmeeting a year is held in a location other than London or executive directors, in line with our aspiration to increase New York.
In 2014, the Board met in Rio fide Janeiro, where and maintain the female representation on the Board to it received briefings from all the heads of the Groups Latin 30% of non-executive directors.
In 2015, in Beijing, the Board will review the Groups Asia Pacific operations.
Directors conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board Evaluation to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where WPP undertakes an annual review of the Board, its a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly committees and individual directors.
In 2014, the annual conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational evaluation was carried out internally.
The Board has a formal system in place for completed a confidential questionnaire and identified directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered opportunities for improvement.
Separate conversations for authorisation by those directors who have no interest were then held between each director and either the in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to chairman or the senior independent director, who also led authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted the non-executive directors assessment of the chairmans directors must act honestly and in good faith with a view performance.
From these findings, we concluded that the to the best interests of the Company and they may impose Board and its committees had been effective and are limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or prepared for a variety of potential macroeconomic, industry, subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
client and talent challenges, but must continue to seek Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any additional ways that their effectiveness might be enhanced.
authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding Re-election whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational The directors submit themselves for annual re-election Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in at each AGM, if they wish to continue serving and are place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts considered by the Board to be eligible.
Directors may be continue to operate effectively.
appointed by share owners by ordinary resolution or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination and Accountability Governance Committee and must then stand for re-election at the next AGM, where they may be re-elected by ordinary Internal control resolution of the share owners.
The Board which receives advice from the Audit Committee With only specific exceptions to ensure Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control continuity, non-executive directors shall not stand for and risk management in the Group and has reviewed the re-election after they have served for the period of their effectiveness of the system during the year and up to the date independence, as determined by then-applicable UK and of this report.
In the context of the scope and complexity of US standards: that currently being a period of nine years.
this system, the Board can only give reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system Diversity of controls is designed to manage, but may not eliminate, the WPP recognises the importance of diversity, including risks of failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For certain joint gender, at all levels of the Group as well as the Board.
ventures and associates, WPP operates controls over the WPP is committed to increasing diversity across its inclusion of their financial data but places reliance upon the subsidiaries and supports the development and promotion systems of internal control operating within our partners of all talented individuals.
As at 31 December 2014, women infrastructure and the obligations upon partners boards comprised 24% of the WPP Board and 29% of nonrelating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
WPP 170 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we comply Corporate governance The principal elements of internal control are The Brand Check covers such issues as: described below.
the possibility of winning or losing major business e. g. as a result of a change of senior management at Control environment a major client : The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, the addition or loss of a key executive of the Group: ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of the introduction of new legislation in an important market: Groups system of internal control.
sustainability, including risks relating to marketing The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly ethics, privacy and employment: reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and was political instability in an important market: and updated in 2012, sets out the principal obligations of all changes in accounting or corporate governance practice.
Directors and senior executives throughout the Each operating group undertakes monthly and quarterly Group are required to sign this Code each year and all procedures and day-to-day management activities to review employees are required to complete training on the Code.
their operations and business risks.
These are formally The WPP Policy Book which has been updated with control communicated to the Group chief executive, other executive bulletins in 2014 includes the Code of Business Conduct directors and senior executives in monthly reports and and human resource practices, as well as guidance on quarterly review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
practices in many operational areas.
Breaches or alleged Paul Richardson provides a formal annual assessment breaches of this Code are investigated by the director of of sustainability risks and performance to the Nomination internal audit, head of compliance and the Group chief and Governance Committee.
In 2013, WPP issued the Data Code of Conduct The Board is firmly of the opinion that the monitoring and updated the Supplier Code of Conduct.
of risk is strongly embedded in the culture of the Company The Group has an  helpline, and of the operating companies, in a manner which the Right to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that Board considers reflects the recommendations of the FRC they feel unable to raise locally.
Through 52 calls to this Guidance on Risk Management and the UK Corporate helpline, a number of issues have been raised during 2014, Governance Code.
all of which have been followed through and investigated where appropriate and reported to the Audit Committee.
Control activities and monitoring Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set Risk assessment out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application throughout the world is given the highest priority by the of these policies and procedures is monitored within the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the individual businesses and by the director of internal audit, chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board, as it is head of compliance and the Group chief counsel.
essential to the creation and protection of share owner Operating companies are required to maintain and value and the development of the careers of our people.
update documentation of their internal controls and The Board realises that WPP is a communication services processes.
This documentation incorporates an analysis company and its ongoing prosperity depends on being able of business risks, detailed control activities and monitoring, to continue to provide a quality service to its existing and together with controls over security of data and the potential clients in a creative, efficient and economic way.
provision of timely and reliable information to Identification, management and monitoring of management.
IT and financial controls are also included.
sustainability risks including social, environmental and The internal audit department was responsible for ethical risks is fully integrated into the Groups risk reviews and testing of the documentation and the relevant management processes.
controls for a majority of the Group during 2014, the At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive results of which were reported to the Audit Committee.
presents a Brand Check review of each of the business operations, including an assessment of the risk in each Financial reporting business, providing feedback on the business risks and Each operating company annually updates a three-year details of any change in the risk profile since the last strategic plan, which incorporates financial objectives.
These are reviewed by the parent companys management WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 171 How we comply Corporate governance and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant The Company has a well-developed and continuous operating company.
program to address the needs of share owners, investment The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information development of operating company budgets which build up about the Company, its strategy, performance and the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each financial competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution year, operating companies prepare detailed budgets for the of the Companys current and potential share owners, this following year for review by the parent company.
The program includes regular visits to investors, particularly by Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being adopted the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the formally.
Operating company results are reported monthly deputy Group finance director and the head of investor and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally by the relations, in the UK, Continental Europe and the major business groups and by Group management on a consolidated financial centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results are compared and Latin America.
The Companys non-executive chairman to budget and the previous year, with full-year forecasts is available to meet with investors and regularly consults prepared and updated quarterly throughout the year.
with investors governance representatives and advisory The Company reports to share owners four times a year.
The Company provides a preliminary At each year-end, all operating companies supply their announcement, an interim management statement at the full-year financial results with such additional information end of the first and third quarters that includes a trading as is appropriate.
This information is consolidated to update, an interim report at half year and a trading update allow the Group to present the necessary disclosures and presentation at the AGM.
for International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue as adopted by the European Union.
with share owners and their representative bodies through The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance executive and non-executive directors in relation to that publicly-released information is free from material remuneration and corporate governance matters.
the chairman and senior independent director held extensive rounds of discussions with share owners and advisory Remuneration groups regarding senior executive compensation, and CEO, chairman and Board succession planning.
The chairman Non-executive directors do not participate in the and senior independent director provide thorough feedback Companys pension, share option or other incentive plans.
to the Board on issues raised with them by share owners.
The Board considers that the non-executive directors WPPs website, wpp.
com, provides current and remuneration conforms with the requirements of the UK historical financial information, including trading Corporate Governance Code.
statements, news releases and presentations and the The fees payable to non-executive directors represent Companys statement of its corporate governance practices.
compensation in connection with Board and Board committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting The Annual General Meeting additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group The 2015 AGM will be held on Tuesday 9 June 2015 in a wider capacity.
at 12 noon at 8 Northumberland Avenue, London Details of directors remuneration and service contracts WC2N 5BY.
A separate notice convening the meeting form part of the report of the Compensation Committee is distributed to share owners and will be published which commences on page 123. on WPPs website, wpp.
All resolutions for which notice has been given will be decided on a poll.
Relations with share owners Dialogue with share owners The relationship with share owners, potential share owners and investment analysts is given high priority by the Company.
