How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Hill Knowlton Strategies building consensus before stories are told and working closely with stakeholders.
We expanded our digital Report by Jack Martin below top marketing, storytelling and branded content creation Global chairman and chief executive officer capabilities through the acquisition of China-based and Rice5, an award-winning digital creative agency.
Michael Coates below President and chief executive officer, The Americas Through the lens of digital, data For an established company with extensive brand analytics and original content recognition and a legacy of creation, we continue to reinvigorate influence, there is always a temptation to rely on what our clients approach to marketing is tried and true.
Weve actively been challenging and public relations ourselves at every step to take a fresh approach integrating our reputed Other transformations continue to take place inside talent with new investments Hill Knowlton Strategies.
We identified emerging to adapt to an ever-changing leadership and talent and, over the past year, have public relations industry.
reconstructed our global regional network around these Traditionally, we have leaders.
We have developed innovative products that unify offered masterfullydigital, content and traditional offerings.
Flight School, for constructed stories, instance, offers an immersive crisis simulation experience.
connecting with key audiences to amplify our messages.
Our product Influence Point is a customized approach for We have been taking this methodology further with recent our clients to reach influencers through online advertising.
acquisitions of leading boutiques around the world that Through the lens of digital, data analytics and original have been incubating new strategies for achieving our content creation, we continue to reinvigorate our clients clients goals.
approach to marketing and public relations.
The way were We acquired Group SJR, transforming our business merges science with wisdom and a boutique in the US with a innovation with influence.
In fact weve titled our business Pulitzer Prize-winning team plan Innovating Influence.
This is our new narrative.
of writers, world-renowned visual storytellers and adept data analytics specialists, to produce a constant stream of content that serves our clients interests and reaches previously untapped markets.
Our purchase of Ascentum in Canada strengthened our offerings in the public engagement space, which emphasizes WPP 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe Report by Donna Imperato right Chief executive officer 2014 was a record year for Cohn & Wolfe.
We achieved topand bottom-line double-digit growth, won multiple awards for our integrated work, launched a truly global thought-leadership platform that drove interest from top CEOs and beat our biggest and fiercest competitors in numerous high-profile new business pitches.
Cohn & Wolfes evolution into an integrated communications agency is driving our growth.
Our bold move in mobile made headlines with the launch of a new Mobile Engagement unit, ME-24, in partnership with global mobile marketer Joule, a tenthavenue company.
We strengthened our research and insights group, formalized our Paid Media approach and advanced our Digital Healthcare offering to build fully-integrated programming for clients across all practices.
And the industry took notice of our achievements.
Our groundbreaking work received major recognition, including two Health Lions at Cannes, two WPPED Cream awards, a Global SABRE and PRWeeks Consumer Launch Campaign Cohn & Wolfes evolution into an of the Year.
For the second year, we were one of only three integrated communications agency large agencies named a PRWeek Best Place to Work.
All of this great momentum secured invitations to some is driving our growth.
Our bold of the industrys most lucrative pitches.
We had a record move in mobile made headlines year of winning new clients including Sanofi, Alcon, Novartis, Tourism Fiji, Twinings, United Airlines and more.
We continue to grow our presence in high-growth To harness the unique way that Cohn & Wolfe fuels the geographic regions, raising our Asia Pacific footprint to synergy between leftand right-brain thinking, we introduced 10 markets with the opening of a wholly-owned office in a proprietary Dig Deeper.
This Thailand and were aggressively exploring new expansion approach marries science and creativity and has led to more opportunities for 2015.
Our global specialty companies, inspired, effective and creative programming for clients and GCI Health see page 78 and AxiCom, also performed prospects.
Our global Authentic Brands study led to well with significant new wins and strong organic growth.
unprecedented buzz and visibility in the C-suite, which We expect to deliver another fantastic year in 2015, resulted in significant new business opportunities in multiple as we continue to add outstanding talent, deepen our markets around the world.
The study examined corporate integrated offerings and build our global reputation.
behaviors that are valued in an authentic brand, which informed our new service that helps clients build their own authentic brands.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 71 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Finsbury league table data and scrutiny by an independent panel of judges.
The honor follows a September 2014 announcement Report by Roland Rudd below top that Finsbury was judged Best Financial Consultancy in the Chairman World by The Holmes Report.
and For the year, revenues increased as Finsbury continued Michael Gross below to develop its global influence in corporate reputation, Chief executive officer financial and transaction communications, public affairs and crisis management, managing complex, high-profile cross-border assignments for companies including AstraZeneca, Walgreens Boots Alliance, and Starbucks, as well as major corporate and M&A assignments for Toyota, Aviva, United Health Group, Sky and Reed Elsevier.
HERING SCHUPPENER Report by Ralf Hering below Principal partner and chief executive officer HERING SCHUPPENER is the leading strategic communications Our company, previously RLM Finsbury, rebranded in consultancy in 2014 as Finsbury, underscoring the transformation over Germany with the past three years into a global company that provides 160 consultants sophisticated, on-the-ground strategic communications specialising in counselling, wherever its strategic clients or their challenges communications may be.
solutions for companies in mission-critical situations such With offices in the UK, as M&A transactions, IPOs, restructuring and change the US, mainland Europe, processes, CEO transitions as well as crises.
We advise the Middle East and Asia, more than 150 clients across all major industries in Finsbury provides expert reinforcing their reputation and managing their corporate strategic advice and brand, in management and controlling of international execution to clients around communications activities, in issues related to corporate the world on multichannel and public affairs on national and EU level as well as in interactions with everlong-term media and investor relations activities.
We also widening audiences have a powerful healthcare arm working with the media, financial markets, pharmaceutical industry on communications strategies.
employees, customers, In 2014, we remained at the top of the Mergermarket governments, policymakers, rankings for M&A transactions in Germany, now for regulators and other important stakeholders.
over a decade, and advised our clients on 30 transactions In December, Mergermarket, an independent mergers involving German companies.
It was a year of solid and acquisitions intelligence and data service, named growth for us, both in revenues and results.
Finsbury the European PR Firm of the Year at the organizations annual awards presentation.
Winners were chosen based on a thorough analysis of Mergermarket WPP 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2014
