How were doing Direct, Digital, Promotion & Relationship Marketing AKQA The Dyson Link app provides complete control of Dysons 360 Eye robot vacuum to achieve the best Report by Ajaz Ahmed below automated cleaning.
Dyson Link enables owners to start, Chief executive officer pause or schedule cleaning sessions from anywhere.
Vodafone Firsts connects people with technology to help realise their dreams.
As part of the series, we introduced the world to two ladies in their 70s who had never flown before, documenting their life-changing journey aboard their first flight.
Another first saw a young veteran run 31 miles across London in the shape of the worlds biggest poppy, guided by a smartphone, on behalf of the Royal British Legion.... the most powerful force in the universe isnt technology.
Its imagination Attracting talent that is passionate, curious, inventive, that cares about ideas and making a difference for clients remains our priority.
Each quarter, multidiscipline makers and thinkers are chosen to spend 12 weeks at AKQAs Future Academy.
Their mission: dont just think it make it.
Future Academy helps nurture the next generation by giving them the canvas to create, and the coding tools to At AKQA we believe in the imaginative application of art realise their creations.
and science to create beautiful ideas, products and services.
As these examples demonstrate, the most powerful With an entrepreneurial, collaborative approach we force in the universe isnt technology.
design digital services and applications that capture the Its imagination.
imagination, delivering impressive returns for our clients.
Here are four examples of AKQAs uplifting creativity and ideas in 2014 that inspired people in unexpected ways: In China, Nike Rise put the next wave of players through their paces on the worlds first interactive LED basketball court.
Exploiting motion-tracking and reactive visualisation to create a pinnacle experience, teach the fundamentals of basketball and push the boundaries of sports training.
Rise captured the imagination of a nation and beyond, inspiring kids across the world to play the game.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 79 How were doing Direct, Digital, Promotion & Relationship Marketing Geometry Global We opened offices in Ecuador and Venezuela and strengthened our presence in Australia and China through Report by Steve Harding below joint ventures and an acquisition.
We formalized our Global chief executive officer network footprint in the Middle East with five new offices with Dubai serving as anchor in the region.
Internally, we launched our unique strategic methodology Leonardo and creative philosophy Pivotal Ideas and have been working to embed these across our 56 markets to bring a unified Geometry approach to our clients challenges and opportunities.
We are proud to have expanded our relationships with Unilever, Heineken, Volkswagen and Coca-Cola, with whom we will be partnering on key global shopper programs across multiple markets.
We are also proud that Geometry led the 2014 was a year of rolling up our sleeves and delivering on the promise made at launch WPP consortium that won the General Mills business, together with sister companies Rockfish, Barrows, Bravo and Kantar Retail.
Through all this, we havent lost sight of why we come to work each day to inspire people to buy well and enable brands to engage with people in meaningful and mutually After launching our agency with a proposition to beneficial ways.
The campaigns we create are fuelled by this develop highly strategic and creative solutions that drive passion and have won accolades from the industry.
In 2014, conversion in the activation and shopper space, 2014 we won over 550 awards, with excellent performances at was a year of rolling up our sleeves and delivering on the Cannes and the Effies.
In our first full financial year In 2015, we will continue to build upon all these we took significant steps toward enhancing the structure, strengths and fully leverage our tools and approaches capabilities and culture of our agency in order to so that Geometry becomes irresistible to new clients, transform our clients business.
indispensable to existing ones, and a magnet for talent across the globe.
