How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Review of the Companys all WPP directors to stand for annual re-election by share governance and the Nomination owners and our tenure policy for non-executive directors: and Governance Committee Newly-elected non-executive directors shall not stand for re-election after having served for the period of their independence under applicable US and UK Report by Philip Lader governance authority, that presently being the nine-year Chairman of the Nomination and rule i. e. under current general governance policy, a Governance Committee non-executive director will not stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM that follows the completion of nine full years service after the first AGM Nomination and Governance Committee members at which he or she was first elected by share owners: nor will such non-executive directors subsequently stand for Meetings election to this Board.
Philip Lader Chairman 5 1 Applying this policy to currently-serving non-executive Charlene Begley 2 2 directors results in the retirement of three non-executive Esther Dyson 3 2 directors including me: Orit Gadiesh 2 Jeffrey Rosen, the deputy chairman and managing Roger Agnelli 4 director of Lazard, who has served on this Board Ruigang Li 4 since 2004 as a member of the Audit Committee and Jeffrey Rosen 5 Nomination and Governance Committee, as chairman Hugo Shong 4 of the Compensation Committee until December 2014 Tim Shriver 5 and as senior independent director since April 2010: Sally Susman 5 Colin Day, the chief executive of Essentra plc who 1 Appointed to the committee on 19 February 2014. has served on this Board and its Compensation and 2 Retired from the committee in June 2014.
Audit Committees since 2005 and as chairman of the Audit Committee since June 2013: and Philip Lader, a senior advisor to Morgan Stanley and a Dear share owner director of Marathon Oil, Rusal and AES Corporation was appointed chairman of WPP in 2001 and has served as Committee responsibilities and how they were chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee discharged in 2014 since that date and as a member of the Compensation Committee until December 2013. hroughout 2014, succession planning not Neither they nor I will stand for re-election to the Board.
only for senior management, but also for a new chairman and Board performance New chairman were the principal focus of the Nomination and Governance Committees five formal The Board worked with the executive recruitment firm, T meetings and frequent informal exchanges Egon Zehnder International, to identify my successor as between committee members and our fellow directors.
chairman and utilised its consultants to identify, evaluate, All non-executive directors were invited to participate and screen a number of high-calibre candidates.
in most of these sessions, with the committees The Board announced the appointment of Roberto recommendations to the Board generally reflecting Quarta as a non-executive director and chairman-designate the consensus of such larger number of opinions.
Roberto brings to the Group extensive and diverse experience in corporate governance Board refreshment and global commerce.
He is chairman of Smith & Nephew plc and of IMI plc and is a partner at the private equity The continued refreshment of the Boards composition firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice.
As previously announced, and leadership has dominated this committees past years Roberto will succeed me as chairman of the Company and activity.
To this end, we reaffirmed our policy that requires as chairman of this committee, subject to his election by WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 117 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report share owners at the AGM and on his retirement from the resulted in the swelling of their rosters, this was to provide Board of IMI plc following the companys AGM on 7 May additional orientation for relatively new directors to deepen 2015.
He joined the Board on 1 January 2015 and has their insight into the Company: and it has been intended been undergoing a thorough induction process which that, in the coming year, committee memberships will be has provided him with a good basis to make an early re-aligned to reflect the skills and interests of respective contribution to our Board discussions and to have a good directors and simultaneously reduce their size.
grounding of our businesses and the Group strategy before he becomes chairman.
Board and committee evaluation Committee leadership and service The annual evaluation of the Boards and all committees effectiveness was conducted, internally.
Each director Pursuant to our non-executive director tenure policy, WPPs completed a confidential questionnaire and identified senior independent director, Jeffrey Rosen, will retire at this opportunities for improvement.
His successor as senior independent director were then held between each director and either me will be announced later in the year.
or the senior independent director, who also led the Colin Day will be succeeded by Jacques Aigrain as non-executive directors assessment of my performance.
chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jacques Aigrain has Observations from these discussions and presentations been a member of the committee since joining the Board will be intensely reviewed by this committee in upcoming in May 2013. meetings, with proposals to the full Board as to improving Subject to their appointment and reappointment at the Board effectiveness.
Overall the results of the evaluation AGM, the composition of our three main committees will were positive, confirming the Board was operating well be as follows: as it continues to manage an orderly refreshment of its membership and a number of planned retirements.
Nomination and Committee Audit Compensation Governance UK Corporate Governance Code composition 2015 Committee Committee Committee Roberto Quarta l Chair l During the year, the Board was briefed on regulatory and Roger Agnelli l l l corporate governance developments.
This principally included Jacques Aigrain Chair l l the anticipated impact of the new UK and EU rules on Charlene Begley l l auditing market reform and the changes to the UK Corporate Sir John Hood Chair l Governance Code.
The review focused especially on the Ruigang Li l l changes related to remuneration, ongoing risk management Daniela Riccardi l and internal control and the requirement for directors to Nicole Seligman l provide a going concern statement in respect of the financial Hugo Shong l l l year ended 2015 taking into account the Groups current Tim Shriver l l position and principal risks.
Sally Susman l Sol Trujillo l l Sustainability With the institution of term limits for non-executive Paul Richardson, chairman of the Companys Sustainability directors, phased retirement of long-serving directors, and Committee, presented a comprehensive assessment of the appointment of new non-executive directors, the Board Groups sustainability performance and risks to the and its committees were purposely larger than custom to committee for 2014.
Particularly noteworthy was WPPs provide the sharing of knowledge about the Companys CDP score of 98B and our inclusion in the CDP FTSE 350 businesses and people.
With the retirement of veteran Climate Disclosure Leadership Index, the Dow Jones directors, the Board will resume the more typical size, Sustainability Index and the FTSE4 Good Index.
WPP but with the benefit of enhanced institutional memory.
continued to help its operating companies by providing a Similarly, while assignments of new directors to committees series of webinars and briefings on sustainability issues.
WPP 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report A more detailed review of our sustainability performance and activities can be read on pages 159 to 165 and in our 2014 2015 Sustainability Report and Pro Bono Book to be published in June 2015.
Terms of reference The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed with the Board annually and most recently in July 2014, are on the Companys website at wpp.
Chairmans role As I announced in the 2013 Annual Report, it had been my intention to retire from the chairmanship of both the Board and this committee in December 2014.
At the Boards request, I have continued to assist with the transition of such leadership to my successor in both roles, Roberto Quarta.
Assuming his relinquishment of the chairmanship of IMI plc and election by WPP share owners to the WPP Board at the 2015 Annual General Meeting, I shall step down immediately thereafter: and it is the Boards intent to elect him as my successor in both roles.
Philip Lader 20 April 2015 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 119
