How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Review of the Audit Committee Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged in 2014 Report by Colin Day The main matters we dealt with during 2014 were as follows: Chairman of the Audit Committee monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: Audit Committee members reviewing internal financial control and internal audit activities: Meetings assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in Colin Day 9 respect of reviewing and reporting on the systems and key Sol Trujillo 9 elements of risk management as they affect the Group: Jeffrey Rosen 9 reviewing the Group Treasury policy with particular Roger Agnelli 8 focus on debtors, funding foreign exchange and cash Jacques Aigrain 9 management and the continued ability of the Group to adopt Charlene Begley 9 the going concern basis in preparing financial statements: Hugo Shong 8 reviewing reports on any material litigation or regulatory reviews involving Group companies: reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions strategy, any significant acquisitions, due diligence procedures and Dear share owner integration processes and the debt financing by the Group: reviewing GroupMs trading model and its risk e held nine meetings during the year, assessment processes: which were attended by Deloitte the reviewing the Groups tax strategy: external auditors, the Companys monitoring the accounting and legal reporting chairman, the Group finance director, requirements, including all relevant regulations of the the director of internal audit, the Group UK Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ and the W chief counsel and the Company Secretary.
Jersey Financial Services Commission and changes to Preparatory meetings were also held with the internal the UK Corporate Governance Code: and external auditors as well as members of the Companys overseeing continued compliance with Section 404 senior management.
The committee received presentations of SOX, through regular status reports submitted by the from the heads of internal audit, finance, tax, compliance, internal and external auditors: IT, digital, compensation and benefits and legal.
The reviewing the Groups reporting systems and shared committee also received reports from the Disclosure services and IT integration initiatives: Committee on financial reports.
The Board received regular reviewing issues raised on our Right to Speak helpline reports on key issues arising at the committee meetings.
and the actions taken in response to those calls: and The committees terms of reference, are reviewed reviewing the Groups initiatives and policies on data annually and most recently in June 2014, and can be privacy and internet security.
viewed on the Companys website at wpp.
The committee examined whether the Annual Report The committee and its members were formally assessed and Accounts for 2014 was fair, balanced and understandable by the chairman of the Company as part of the annual and provided the information necessary for share owners to evaluation process described on page 118 for their technical assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
suitability to be members and also for its overall effectiveness.
The committee received an early final draft of the report for The Board has designated me as the committees financial review and comment, as well as a report from the Disclosure expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOX purposes and as having Committee as to the governance relating to compilation of recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the report.
The Board subsequently considered the report as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The members of the a whole and discussed the reports tone, balance and language committee have financial and or financial services experience for compliance with these standards.
The Boards statement as set out in their biographies on pages 108 to 111. on the report is on page 179.
WPP 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Financial reporting and significant the approach taken to calculating fair value adjustments financial judgements in respect of acquired businesses and specifically provisions for non-corporate tax, property and legal exposures, which The management team make key decisions and judgements the committee considered was appropriate: in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
the valuation of year-end provisions in respect of These key judgements were detailed in reports to the working capital.
The committee received briefings on the committee in respect of 2014 which were then examined approach taken by management in assessing the level of by the committee and discussed with management.
exposure across the Group and agreed it was consistent Deloitte also reported to and discussed with the and appropriate: committee whether suitable accounting policies had been accounting for the judgemental elements of adopted in the financial statements for the year ended 2014 remuneration, including pensions, bonus accruals, and whether management had made appropriate estimates severances and share-based payments.
The areas of significant judgement agreed that the assumptions applied by management considered by the committee and how these were addressed are reasonable: are set out below and reflect a number of the principal risk the judgements made in respect of tax, in particular areas identified by the Board on pages 173 to 177: deferred tax assets including their recoverability and the assessments made for goodwill impairment.
the level of tax provisioning.
The committee supported The committee confirmed, based on managements managements assumptions in both these areas and expectations of future performance of certain businesses, believe the current level of provisions is reasonable: and the level of goodwill impairment charges required in 2014: the going concern assessment and key forecast the restructuring charges to be incurred as part of a assumptions.
The committee concur with managements restructuring program commenced in the last quarter of going concern assumptions as set out on page 178.
2014, including the IT transformation project and whether these are exceptional.
The committee supported managements External audit analysis of the nature of the restructuring charges: the judgements made in determining the fair value Deloitte have been WPPs auditors since 2002.
The lead of shares received as consideration and the gains made partner rotates every five years and the latest rotation will in 2014 on investments.
The committee agreed that the take effect during 2015.
In 2014, the effectiveness of the approach adopted by management is appropriate: audit process was evaluated through a committee review the judgements made in respect of revenue recognition, of the audit planning process and discussions with key particularly as these relate to media volume income and members of the Groups finance function.
The committee received briefings evaluations concluded that there continued to be a good from Deloitte and management on the appropriateness quality audit process and constructive challenge where of the policies adopted and the controls in place and necessary to ensure balanced reporting.
The committee challenged management to demonstrate the effectiveness held private meetings with the external auditors and the of such controls: committee chair met privately with the external auditors the valuations of non-controlled investments, which before meetings.
The committee continues to be satisfied are based on local management forecasts, recent thirdwith the performance of Deloitte and confirmed that party investment and other supporting information such Deloitte continues to be objective and independent and as industry valuation multiples.
The committee examined noted the principal findings of the FRC 2014 Audit Quality the valuations with management and considered the Report which overall was good with limited improvements sample testing of the investments performed by Deloitte required.
The committee recommends the reappointment and agreed that the valuations were appropriate: of Deloitte at the AGM on 9 June 2015. the accuracy of forecasting the potential future The committee considered the Groups position on its payments due under earnout agreements in respect audit services contract in the context of the recent changes of acquired businesses.
The committee considered the in regulations concerning the audit market.
There is forecasting with management and the testing undertaken no immediate intention to tender the audit contract but by Deloitte and agreed that earnouts have been accounted the committee regularly reviews the position.
for on a consistent basis to previous periods: WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 121 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Internal audit The annual internal audit plan is approved by the committee at the beginning of the financial year.
Progress against the plan is monitored through the year and any changes require committee approval.
Significant issues identified within audit reports are considered in detail along with the mitigation plans to resolve those issues.
The committee also considers the level of internal audit resource to ensure it is appropriate to provide the right level of assurance over the key risks and controls throughout the Group.
Non-audit fees The committee has established a policy regarding non-audit services that may be provided by Deloitte, which prohibits certain categories of work in line with relevant guidance on independence, such as ethical standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and SEC.
The policy was reviewed by the committee in 2014 and advice on remuneration has also been included in the prohibited category with effect from the beginning of 2015 allowing for a transition period.
Other categories of work may be provided by the auditors if appropriate and if pre-approved by the committee, either as individual assignments or as aggregate amounts for specified categories of services.
All fees are summarised periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate value of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level of fees for 2014 is shown in note 3 on page 199.
Committee membership This will be my final report as chairman of the committee as I transition to Jacques Aigrain who will be my successor following the AGM.
I would like to thank Jeffrey Rosen for his hard work over many years as a member of the committee, as he will also be retiring at the AGM.
Thank you also to my colleagues on the committee, the parent company executives and the external advisors for their endeavours in 2014.
Colin Day 20 April 2015 WPP 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2014
