74 Governance Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee Information regarding the role of the Nomination Committee, including its terms of reference, can be found on the Groups website: www.
Committee membership The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Members of the Committee Member From To Admiral the Lord Boyce 5 May 2004 31 July 2013 Allan Cook chairman 10 September 2009 To date Fiona Clutterbuck 20 June 2007 To date Joanne Curin 1 March 2009 31 January 2014 Allister Langlands 4 September 2013 To date Thomas Leppert 1 October 2013 To date Raj Rajagopal 1 March 2009 To date Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 To date The key matters discussed by the Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda items Succession planning Executive and non-executive directors Board and committee Board and committee memberships appointments Recommendation to the Board regarding appointment of two new non-executive directors and an executive director Re-election of directors in accordance with the Companys articles of association Board composition The Boards composition is regularly reviewed and, where necessary, updated to ensure that it is able to respond to the Groups needs.
As the Group continues to grow, and as we move into the new financial year, our refreshed Board is well placed to provide effective leadership.
Appointment process Allister Langlands and Thomas Leppert were appointed to the Board as independent non-executive directors during the last financial year.
James Cullens will be joining as an executive director on 1 July 2014 and, after one months handover, will take over as Group HR director.
At the beginning of each appointment process, the Nomination Committee considered in detail which areas of expertise the Board, and in turn the Group, would most benefit from and drew up detailed role specifications accordingly.
Diversity of thought and background played a considerable part in the process.
Each candidate was assessed against the role specification as well as undergoing a comprehensive interview process.
Gender diversity was an important part of the appointment process.
We mandated that balanced shortlists be presented for these appointments and will do so for future searches for independent non-executive directors.
The executive search firm Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann supported the Board on all the appointments during the year.
We are pleased that it has signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which promotes gender diversity and best practice for corporate board search processes.
Succession planning Considerable effort has been put into developing talent below Board level, notably through the introduction of a Group leadership development programme GLDP in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Several members of the Board joined attendees during the GLDP in the summer of 2013.
Members of the Committee participated in a comprehensive review of the Groups succession plan at a meeting of the Board held during the year.
Gender imbalance below Board level is widely recognised as a potential factor in gender imbalance at Board level.
The Company has sought to address this through various initiatives, as set out in the Human Resources Review page 52.
As part of the succession planning exercise, a number of female employees have been identified as potential future leaders of the Group.
It is hoped this will create a pipeline of senior female talent in both management and technical roles.
Furthermore, we have engaged actively with an initiative promoted by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills BIS, to identify female senior employees to become potential candidates for non-executive director roles in other listed companies.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 75 Nomination Committee Report continued Board and employee diversity The Board attaches significant importance to diversity both within its own membership and within the Group.
Atkins benefits from diversity at Board level in terms of both perspective and experience.
In particular, the Board remains committed to gender diversity.
The topic of womens representation on boards remains high on the agenda for governments and the public.
In March 2014 Lord Davies of Abersoch published his third annual progress report on this matter.
In it he renews his calls for chairmen to set out their aspirational targets for the number of women on their boards in 2015 or beyond and for companies to invest in the female talent pipeline.
The Board continues to aspire to a membership of at least one third women by 2015, without compromising its focus on diversity of thought and experience.
In the wider Group, we are continuing to work towards our short-term target of increasing female representation in both the senior management population the top 1,000 employees in the Group and the SLT to 15% by 31 March 2015.
Details of female representation in the wider Group are provided in the Human Resources Review page 53.
The Boards current diversity as at 31 March 2014 is shown in table 2 below.
Table 2: Board diversity Board experience and composition Percentage of Board membership Board overall 100% Nationality citizenship Defence and aerospace 22.2% Energy 22.2% Engineering 44.4% Finance accountancy, 44.4% private equity and corporate finance Human resources 11.1% Legal 22.2% Management consultancy 44.4% strategic consultancy Not for profit, educational 33.3% and public entities Other global multinational boards 66.6% Transportation 11.1% Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allan Cook Chairman 11 June 2014 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
