66 Governance Corporate Governance Report Letter from the chairman Alun Griffiths, our Group HR director, will retire from the Dear Shareholder Board at the conclusion of our AGM on 30 July 2014.
Alun I am pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate has been with the Group for 28 years and has served on the governance.
This review, and the reports of the Nomination, Board as an executive director for the past seven years.
Alun Audit and Remuneration Committees which follow, summarise has made an outstanding contribution to the Group, and our activities in this area during the year.
the Board and I would like to thank him for his long-standing counsel and commitment during this period.
Alun will be Shareholders look to the Board to promote the long-term succeeded as Group HR director by James Cullens, who joins success of the Company.
We remain committed to excellent us from Hays plc.
It is my pleasure to welcome James, who standards of corporate governance, based on our conviction joins the Board on 1 July 2014. that a strong governance framework is an essential foundation for this success.
Diversity The Board recognises that gender imbalance among the Strong governance starts with the Board.
At Atkins we place Groups employees is an issue, as it is for many other great importance on having an effective team of directors organisations in the science, engineering, maths and comprising high-calibre individuals who bring diverse technology sectors.
perspectives from careers spent in a wide range of industries around the world.
Atkins continues to drive initiatives both within the Company and the wider industry to promote diversity, more details Succession planning Board membership of which can be found in the Human Resources Review There have been a number of changes to the Board during page 52. the year.
Admiral the Lord Boyce retired in July 2013.
He was replaced as senior independent director by Fiona Clutterbuck.
The Board believes in the benefits of greater gender diversity Joanne Curin, non-executive director and chairman of at Board level and is actively supportive of measures to achieve the Audit Committee, stepped down from the Board on this without putting quotas in place.
Our focus remains on 31 January 2014 following her appointment as chief financial attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or officer of Lamprell plc.
Rodney Slater will be retiring from the ethnicity, resulting in the appointment of two male directors Board after our annual general meeting AGM on 30 July 2014. during the year.
On behalf of the Board I would once again like to thank Lord Boyce for his commitment to the Company during his The Board has previously set out its aspiration to have one time as a director, extend our thanks to Joanne for her third of its Board members as women by 2015.
The retirement valued contribution to the Board and leadership of the Audit of Joanne Curin has reduced the number of women on our Committee over the last five years and also thank Rodney Board to one.
Today, the Boards make-up reflects the for his input during his three-year tenure.
increasing internationalisation of the Group with directors demonstrating diversity of perspective, experience, thought, I am pleased to take this opportunity to welcome both Allister Langlands and Thomas Leppert, who joined the Board gender, ethnicity and nationality.
Nevertheless, we remain committed to achieving a membership of at least one third as independent non-executive directors on 4 September 2013 and 1 October 2013 respectively.
These appointments women on the Board by 2015. complement and further enhance the wide-ranging skills we are privileged to have on our Board.
Allister brings a Yours faithfully wealth of knowledge of the energy industry, while Thomas has extensive experience in both the public and private sectors Allan Cook Chairman including construction and consultancy in the North American market.
Allister has succeeded Joanne as chairman of the 11 June 2014 Audit Committee.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 67 Corporate Governance Report continued Statement of compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2014 the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2012, a copy of which is available on the FRCs website: www.
Compliance with the Code was required commencing 1 April 2013.
The disclosures that follow mirror the five sections of the Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
Full details of the Groups governance framework are available on the Groups website: www.
Leadership The Board is responsible for ensuring the long-term success of the Company.
It does so by determining the Companys long-term direction and strategic aims within a framework of appropriate and robust controls.
A key principle of the framework is the delegation of operational management to the chief executive officer, with a matrix of authorities setting out how this is further delegated through the organisation.
This enables the efficient and effective day to day operation of the Groups different businesses.
Further details on the roles of the chairman, chief executive officer and senior independent director can be found on the Groups website: www.
The chief executive officer has established two teams to enable him to discharge his responsibilities effectively: the senior leadership team SLT and the recently established operational leadership team OLT.
The SLT has a strategic focus while the OLT concentrates on operational matters by providing a forum for the regional chief executive officers to focus on performance, sharing best practice and knowledge.
The Board has reserved a number of matters for its sole consideration.
These include: consideration and approval of strategy general oversight of the Groups operations approval of significant bids and contracts the Groups capital, corporate, management and control structures approval of financial statements and shareholder communications approval of dividend policy and interim dividends approval of Group policies implementation and monitoring of internal control and risk management systems approval of significant acquisitions and disposals material changes to the Groups pension schemes.
While the Board has specific responsibility for the matters reserved for its consideration, in certain areas specific responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The activities of these committees are discussed in more detail in the Nomination Committee Report pages 74 to 75, the Audit Committee Report pages 76 to 80 and the Remuneration Report pages 81 to 105.
The committee terms of reference are available on the Groups website or on request from the company secretary.
In addition the Board may delegate authority to a standing committee, consisting of any two directors, to provide final sign-off for an agreed course of action within predefined parameters.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 68 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The key agenda items discussed by the Board during the year included: Theme Agenda items Financial reporting Approval of trading updates and interim management statements Approval of the full year results, 2013 AGM notice of meeting and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2013 Approval of the half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2013 Dividend recommendation and approval as appropriate Quarterly performance updates and business reviews including human resources HR, quality, environmental, security and safety matters Strategy Disposal of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. Acquisition of the Confluence group of companies Acquisition of Nuclear Safety Associates, Inc. Information assurance and cyber security Pension strategy and defined benefit fund triennial valuation Annual strategy review Operations The Groups banking facilities including renegotiation of the Groups revolving credit facility Significant project approvals Review of Group risk log Budget Budget for the Group for the year ending 31 March 2015 Business presentations Asia Pacific Energy Faithful Gould Middle East North America United Kingdom and Europe Governance Governance framework review, including review of risk management and internal controls Review of the proposed code of conduct Approval of Group policies and Board committee terms of reference Directors conflicts of interest and annual review of authorised conflicts Appointment of the independent auditor and approval of its audit fee Shareholder Updates on the views of shareholders following the announcement of results, investor meetings engagement and roadshows Independent feedback from the Groups broker following investor meetings Reports from the investor relations director Consideration of market reaction to key announcements Employees Employee diversity, particularly gender diversity Talent development and succession planning Review of the results of the 2013 employee engagement survey Board Outcomes of, and actions arising from, the 2012 13 review of Board effectiveness 2013 14 Board effectiveness review Appointment of two non-executive directors Appointment of an executive director Lord Davies second annual report on women on boards Approval of non-executive directors fees Board committee membership WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 69 Corporate Governance Report continued The membership of the Board during the year is shown in table 1 along with a summary of attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees.
Biographies for each of the directors are provided separately pages 60 and 61.
1 Table 1: Board membership and Board and committee meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Allan Cook Nomination Committee chairman 12 12 4 4 Executive directors Heath Drewett Group finance director 12 12 Alun Griffiths Group HR director 12 12 Uwe Krueger chief executive officer 12 12 Senior independent director 2 Admiral the Lord Boyce 5 5 3 3 2 2 2 Fiona Clutterbuck senior independent director from 31 July 2013 12 12 4 4 8 8 4 4 Independent non-executive directors 3 4 Joanne Curin Audit Committee chairman to 31 January 2014 9 10 3 3 4 4 3,5 Allister Langlands Audit Committee chairman from 1 February 2014 7 7 2 2 1 1 6 6 Thomas Leppert 4 5 1 1 Raj Rajagopal Remuneration Committee chairman 12 12 4 4 8 8 4 4 7 Rodney Slater 11 12 8 8 4 4 1.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Admiral the Lord Boyce retired as an independent non-executive director and senior independent director on 31 July 2013.
Fiona Clutterbuck succeeded him as senior independent director.
J oanne Curin retired as an independent non-executive director and Audit Committee chairman on 31 January 2014.
Allister Langlands succeeded her as Audit Committee chairman on 1 February 2014.
Joanne Curin was unable to attend one of the Board meetings due to conflicting commitments.
Allister Langlands was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 4 September 2013.
Thomas Leppert was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 1 October 2013.
One of the Board meetings coincided with a prior arrangement.
The senior independent director led the appraisal of the chairmans performance.
She sought input from all directors before discussing her findings with the independent non-executive directors.
She then provided feedback to the chairman.
During the year, the independent non-executive directors also met regularly with the chairman.
Allan Cooks external commitments changed during the year following his appointment as the lead non-executive director of the UKs Department for Business, Innovation & Skills.
To enable him to carry out his responsibilities as chairman, he continues to spend at least three days per week with the Company.
Directors conflicts of interest Each director is required, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to declare any interests that may give rise to a conflict of interest with the Company on appointment and subsequently as they arise.
Where such a conflict, or potential conflict, arises the Board is empowered under the Companys articles of association to consider and authorise such conflicts as appropriate.
In addition, the Company undertakes an annual review of all authorised conflicts to ensure such authorisation remains appropriate, the last such review having taken place in November 2013.
A more detailed statement regarding how the Board operates is available on the Groups website: www.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 70 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Effectiveness Nomination Committee Details of the work of the Nomination Committee can be found in the Nomination Committee Report pages 74 to 75.
Performance evaluation The Board recognises the need to maintain its development and the development of individual directors to ensure its continued effectiveness and to respond to evolving best practice.
This involves an ongoing process of: reflecting on past performance and the implementation of past actions consideration of future training, skill and diversity requirements identification and implementation of new actions to improve performance.
The Board recognises that the process of improving its effectiveness requires continuous attention, particularly in respect of actions such as ensuring the correct Board balance and diversity 2011 12 and 2012 13, succession planning 2010 11 and 2011 12 and Board focus 2010 11 and 2012 13.
The Board undertakes a rigorous and formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and directors annually.
The Board believes that an external evaluation every three years brings new insight into its processes and performance.
An external evaluation took place in 2012 13.
The 2013 14 evaluation was conducted internally.
The chairman conducted one-to-one sessions with each member of the Board and the company secretary.
The following areas of its role and performance were explored in depth during the evaluation process: Board role and remit induction and continuing education information flows to the Board diversity of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board, including consideration of gender diversity any other factors relevant to the Boards effectiveness, such as management of meetings.
The Board received a written report from the chairman, which identified progress made and areas for improvement.
This was debated and discussed in detail and a clear action plan for the year ahead was then developed and approved.
The actions identified in the 2013 14 review build upon the actions identified in previous years and focus on the diversity of the Board, succession planning, Board focus and interaction between Board members.
While many of these themes have arisen in prior years, the significant changes to the membership of the Board during the year have inevitably contributed to a focus on those areas particularly affected by its composition.
In addition, the increasingly diverse locations of Board members, coupled with the work undertaken in prior years to provide more timely and detailed management data 2011 12 and enhance the rolling 12-month agenda 2010 11, have led to adjustments to the frequency of meetings and increased use of technology.
The key findings of the 2013 14 performance review will be implemented in the current financial year and progress will be considered as part of the next performance evaluation.
Commitment During the year all directors, including the independent non-executive directors, committed significant time to the Company, in line with the requirements stated in their letters of appointment and service contracts.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 71 Corporate Governance Report continued Development, business awareness and induction The chairman regularly reviews training requirements with each director in order to maximise the contribution of the directors.
The company secretary ensures suitable opportunities are identified and communicated to directors.
During the year the directors have undertaken training via an audit committee workshop and remuneration committee debate.
The Board also receives regular updates from the company secretary on legal, regulatory and governance developments, which highlight any impact they may have on the Board and or the Group.
On joining the Board, directors take part in a formal induction process.
This includes the provision of past Board materials to provide background information on the Group, information on Board processes and governance, site visits and meetings with key employees.
The induction is tailored to each new directors specific needs.
Allister Langlands and Thomas Leppert are participating in comprehensive induction programmes, which commenced immediately following the announcement of their appointments.
James Cullens will receive a similar introduction to the Group on commencement of his appointment.
Accountability Financial reporting Statements regarding directors responsibilities and the status of the business as a going concern are given in the Directors Report pages 64 and 65.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Groups governance framework and ensuring its adequacy and effectiveness, as set out in the FRCs 2005 Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Changes in this area following consultations by the FRC are being monitored by the Board and its committees as applicable.
Work to develop our Group code of conduct continued during the year and this is expected to be launched to all employees in the current financial year.
It sets out what it means to think and behave in the Atkins Way and provides employees with a clear framework within which to operate.
The Groups governance framework is illustrated in figure 1.
Figure 1: Governance framework Level and example inputs Framework Assurance Board Board Articles of association Matters reserved to the Board Committee terms of reference Policy statements Values and ethics Group Strategy Quarterly business reviews Code of Group authority matrix conduct Group controls Service delivery process Design principles Support function manuals e. g. finance, human resources, QSE Business management Region business system BMS Local legislation Industry requirements Budgets Deliver Business Win work People Systems work operations Project controls WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Reporting, audit, risk management Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 72 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The governance framework reflects the devolved and decentralised structure of the Group, which is considered a key part of the Groups ability to deliver services to its clients.
Under this structure the Board has delegated operational responsibility to the chief executive officer, who then delegates authority and control to the regional chief executive officers who are all members of the SLT and OLT.
Authority is further delegated from them to the managing directors of the principal businesses and then downward to business and project managers as appropriate.
This approach is reflected in the governance framework as follows: the policy statements approved by the Board, available on our website: www.
com  , set out clearly and succinctly Atkins vision, commitment and arrangements, including: business conduct, risk management, employment, excellence in delivery, health, safety and security, sustainability and stakeholder communication Group controls set out mandatory activities and standards that are part of the overall Group processes and apply across the Group the code of conduct will set out behavioural expectations for everyone who works for and represents Atkins, the purpose being to reinforce the controls and underpin the ethics and values that apply across the Group, thereby protecting the reputation of our business and maintaining our professional standing and brand each BMS as adopted by each region business has been reviewed and updated to ensure it incorporates all Group controls and any regional and industry-specific controls required to deliver our four key business processes win work, deliver work, people and business operations with each BMS providing a single source of information for employees, enabling them to understand their responsibilities and comply with all Atkins requirements.
The following principles are key to the successful operation of the framework: authority is delegated within clearly prescribed limits under the Groups authority matrix decisions are escalated where either project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority activity and performance are tracked through monthly and quarterly reports effectiveness is audited via internal audit and self-assessment reviews.
The governance framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve stated business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Joint ventures in which the Company does not have overall control are not covered by the Groups governance framework.
For these joint ventures, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the joint venture parties but as far as possible we insist on compliance with our governance requirements as a minimum.
The Board monitored and reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance framework, including internal controls and risk management, on a continuous basis throughout the year ended 31 March 2014 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Support was provided by the Group Risk Committee, the internal audit function and the Companys independent auditor.
Audit Committee Details of the work of the Audit Committee can be found in the Audit Committee Report pages 76 to 80.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report pages 81 to 105.
Relations with shareholders Engagement with our shareholders is a fundamental part of the Groups corporate governance model.
To this end we seek to establish an early and effective dialogue with shareholders regarding significant changes that affect corporate governance, in addition to ongoing engagement on more routine matters.
Communication regarding the delivery of the Groups strategy is integral to this ongoing dialogue.
The primary means used by the Board for communicating with all Company shareholders are the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary statement of annual results, half year results and the AGM.
It also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively.
An investor relations section is provided on the Groups website: www.
com investors to facilitate communications with institutional and private investors.
This includes material shared with fund managers and analysts at Company meetings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 73 Corporate Governance Report continued Our shareholders play a vital role in the Groups governance and their increasingly active engagement is welcomed.
The investor relations director, alongside the chief executive officer, Group finance director and chairman, provides a focal point for communication with investors and is always keen to engage with, educate and inform potential new investors.
The Groups approach to investor relations enables it to be proactive in its engagement with both shareholders and non-shareholders.
The chief executive officer and Group finance director present the preliminary statement of annual results and half year results to institutional investors and analysts.
These presentations are also available via webcast and teleconference.
Analyst breakfast events are hosted regularly which include presentations by our regional chief executives and business managing directors.
In the last financial year they have focused on our Asia Pacific business and opportunities in the global rail market.
The chief executive officer, Group finance director and investor relations director also regularly attend conferences and roadshows to give shareholders, and other potential investors, access to management.
The non-executive directors receive updates on the views of shareholders from the executive directors following investor meetings.
The Groups broker also provides updates to the Board on shareholder opinions and compiles independent feedback from investor meetings twice a year.
The company secretary brings to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
Retail shareholders have the opportunity to attend our AGM, where all directors are expected to be available to answer questions.
They are also able to submit questions in writing at any time.
All of the directors in appointment at the time attended our AGM in July 2013 and were available to speak to shareholders.
We intend to call a poll for all resolutions to be considered at the 2014 AGM.
This ensures the Company continues to follow best practice and allows all shareholders, present in person or by proxy, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their shareholding.
Details of the 2014 AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allan Cook Chairman 11 June 2014 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
