76 Governance Audit Committee Report Letter from the Audit Committee chairman Independent auditor Dear Shareholder Regulatory and best practice developments regarding the Following my appointment as chairman of the Audit appointment, role and responsibilities of the independent Committee from 1 February 2014, I am delighted to present auditor remain subject to further discussion and potential the Audit Committee Report for the financial year ended change.
We have considered the Code provision that the 31 March 2014.
My fellow Committee members and I would independent audit contract be put out to tender every 10 like to thank Joanne Curin, who retired from the Board in years.
However, comprehensive regulatory changes have also January this year, for her stewardship of the Committee since now been proposed by the European Union EU and the 1 July 2009.
Her guidance and insights have proved invaluable UKs Competition Commission, which has since been abolished as we carry the Committees work forward in a changing and had its powers transferred to the Competition and regulatory environment.
We therefore believe that our long-term tender policy should be based on the final outcome The role of the Committee continues to evolve.
We have clear of these developments taken as a whole.
These issues are terms of reference and specific duties to perform but our main discussed further later in this report page 78.
In the purpose is to give assurance that shareholders interests are meantime the reappointment of the independent auditor being properly protected by appropriate financial management continues to be the subject of rigorous review each year.
and reporting and internal control frameworks.
We aim at all times to provide oversight and guidance which will contribute Having considered the effectiveness and performance of the to the ongoing good governance of the business.
independent auditor, the Committee has recommended the reappointment of  LLP PwC as The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code has independent auditor.
been revised to incorporate a number of new disclosures in relation to the work of audit committees.
We welcome Yours faithfully these developments, which are designed to provide shareholders with more information of relevance to the Allister Langlands Company and to enhance transparency.
We have therefore Chairman of the Audit Committee prepared this report in compliance with the Codes new 11 June 2014 requirements and the report addresses the Committees consideration of significant issues during the financial year, our assessment of external audit effectiveness and our approach to appointing the auditor.
Internal auditor Last year we reported the Committees satisfaction with the development of the internal audit function since the appointment in 2010 of Ernst & Young EY to provide these services to the Group.
We have continued to benefit from EYs ability to scale resource and deploy specialists where necessary.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 77 Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Members of the Committee during the year Member From To Joanne Curin chairman 1 July 2009 to 31 January 2014 1 March 2009 31 January 2014 Fiona Clutterbuck 1 April 2007 To date Allister Langlands chairman from 1 February 2014 9 October 2013 To date Raj Rajagopal 8 September 2011 To date Information regarding the scope of the Committees activities, including its terms of reference, can be found on the Groups website: www.
Committee activities The key matters discussed by the Audit Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda items Financial reporting Judgemental issues regarding the results for the year ended 31 March 2013 including a review of accounting policies and going concern Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2013 Draft results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2013 Plans for the preparation of the results for the six months ended 30 September 2013 Judgemental issues regarding the results for the six months ended 30 September 2013 including a review of going concern Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the six months ended 30 September 2013 Draft half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2013 Plans for the preparation of the full year results for the year ended 31 March 2014 Internal controls Review of key internal controls Group self-certification process and statement Review of the whistleblower and fraud response policies and processes Reports on whistleblower confidential hotline activity Approval of amendments to the Group tax and treasury requirements Consideration of the role of the senior accounting officer and the statements required to be filed Internal audit Consideration and approval of the internal audit plan for the year ending 31 March 2015 Regular reviews of internal audit findings Review of the policy regarding the management of potential conflicts between the Group and the internal auditor Review of the Groups Internal Audit Charter Independent auditor Independent review plans for the six months to 30 September 2013 and for the year ended 31 March 2014 Review of the policy regarding the management of potential conflicts between the Group and the independent auditor, including non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Review of audit and non-audit fees paid to the independent auditor and its independence and effectiveness Recommendation regarding the reappointment of the independent auditor Approval in line with policy of non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Reform of the audit market and the proposals from the EU and the UKs Competition Commission now the CMA Consideration of the Companys approach to tendering the independent audit Risk Annual review of the activities of the Group Risk Committee Governance Consideration of changes to corporate reporting requirements Consideration of the effect of the implementation of amended accounting standards WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 78 Governance Audit Committee Report continued The Committee discussed the following matters following the conclusion of the financial year ended 31 March 2014 in respect of that year: judgemental issues regarding the results for the year ended 31 March 2014 including a review of accounting policies and going concern advising the Board, at its request, on whether the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 are fair, balanced and understandable independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2014 draft results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Annual financial reporting Significant issues The Audit Committee has reviewed the key judgements applied to a number of significant issues in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
This review included consideration of the following: Significant issue How the Committee addressed this Contract accounting The Group enters into a number of large and complex long-term contracts.
Significant judgements revenue recognition are required to forecast how each contract will perform and potential adjustments that may prove necessary over the lifetime of a project.
These judgements may include, for example, revenue and profit recognition being determined based on managements estimates of the percentage that has been completed and the costs that will need to be incurred to complete it, as well as contractual variations.
The Committee has received regular reports from management on a number of higher risk contracts and has challenged estimates of completion costs, with consequential impacts on revenue recognition.
It has concluded that the approach to revenue recognition is appropriate in the context of the Groups business model and contract structures.
Goodwill impairment The Group has significant goodwill relating to Atkins North America ANA following the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation in 2010.
The Committee considered the need to undertake a goodwill impairment calculation as at 30 September 2013 by reviewing the assumptions used at 31 March 2013 and the discount rate used in relation to future cash flows and determined that there were no triggering events.
At 31 March 2014 it examined the detailed full impairment review undertaken by management, which included testing of assumptions and sensitivity analysis.
It also received and considered the independent auditors comments on the key assumptions and detailed forecasts made.
The issue of impairment involves making significant judgements about the future results of the ANA business and the risks it faces.
The Committee agreed with managements recommendation that no impairment charge should be made but that there remains a risk of impairment of ANA goodwill in the future and relevant disclosures have therefore been included in the Annual Report and Accounts note 16, page 148.
The Committee also considered a number of other judgements made by management, including judgements concerning accounting for acquisitions and disposals, provisions in the Groups insurance captive, accounting for pension liabilities and taxation.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Audit Committee examined the Annual Report and Accounts and was asked by the Board to advise it on whether they are fair, balanced and understandable.
To enable it to draw its conclusions in this respect, the Committee: examined the preparation and review process for the Annual Report and Accounts and considered the level of challenge provided through that process considered the accounting policies applied by the Group assessed the information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts against the Groups strategy and business model to ensure the information provided was sufficient to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 79 Audit Committee Report continued Independent auditor The independent auditor is currently PwC, which has acted in this capacity since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
During the year the Committee conducted a review of the relationship with the independent auditor, as well as its qualification, expertise and resources and the effectiveness and quality of the audit.
As part of this review, the Committee considers audit governance, audit planning and methodology, robustness of challenge to management and the quality of senior members of the audit team.
It does so in consultation with senior management, particularly senior finance personnel.
It has concluded that PwCs appointment continues to meet the Groups needs and therefore recommended to the Board its reappointment as independent auditor.
The Committee has agreed to implement a more formal process of review of the effectiveness of the independent auditor in future.
The Committee will issue a questionnaire to the members of the Committee and senior management, which will be circulated after the publication of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The questionnaire will cover the robustness of the audit process, quality of deliverables, reporting and the audit team.
The responses will be collated ahead of and fed into the Committees consideration of the audit strategy and approach for the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
The independence of the independent auditor is evidenced through its challenge to management.
Its independence and objectivity are assured through the rotation of the audit partner on a regular basis, the last such rotation having taken place in 2012.
Accordingly, the Committee has not considered it necessary to date to undertake a tender process for the audit work, although it has considered PwCs tenure and appointment on an annual basis.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of independent auditor.
Audit tender policy In September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council FRC amended the Code to include, among other changes, a requirement for FTSE 350 companies to put the independent audit contract out to tender at least once every 10 years.
The FRC recognised that the audit market could be disrupted if a large number of companies chose to go out to tender in the first year in which the revised Code applied and hence proposed transitional arrangements that brought tenders in line with the cycle for rotating the audit partner.
The Competition Commission now the CMA issued its final report on its inquiry into the FTSE 350 audit market in October 2013.
Its recommendations, which are yet to be enacted into law, included a mandatory audit tender once every 10 years, among other proposals intended to encourage competition.
In addition to the Code and Competition Commission developments, on 27 May 2014 the European Parliament published a directive and a regulation in the Official Journal of the EU implementing reforms of the audit sector in the EU.
EU member states must adopt the necessary measures to implement the directive by 17 June 2016 while the regulation will apply from 17 June 2016 other than the prohibition on contractual clauses limiting the choice of auditor, which will apply from 17 June 2017.
The reforms require audit firms of public interest entities, including all listed companies, to rotate their auditor once every 10 years with a possible extension for a further 10 years available where a tender is held and introduce a range of new rules and measures to strengthen audit quality and independence across the EU.
It is not yet clear what impact the EU changes will have on the Competition Commission recommendations and on the Code or how the various requirements will interact.
The Committee will therefore continue to monitor developments and will put in place a formal audit tender policy when the position has become clearer.
In the meantime the reappointment of the independent auditor will continue to be the subject of rigorous review each year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 80 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Auditor independence The Committee understands that certain work of a non-audit nature may be best undertaken by the independent auditor as a result of its unique position and knowledge of key areas of the Company.
Approval is required prior to the independent auditor commencing non-audit work in accordance with a Group policy, summarised in table 2.
This policy is drafted to preserve the independence and objectivity of the independent auditor and is reviewed and approved annually by the Committee.
The impact on independence, if any, of non-audit work performed by the independent auditor is also considered regularly by the Committee.
The policy sets out safeguards to be considered when engaging the independent auditor for non-audit services.
The appointment of former employees of the independent auditor to positions in the Group is also regulated by the Committee.
Table 2: Policy on non-audit services provided by the independent auditor Work best performed by the independent auditor as a result Audit-related of its unique position and knowledge Prohibited services of the Company Other work work Examples Regulatory Taxation advice Provision of non-material systems Book-keeping of types work Assisting and working with the or project services under the control services of work Reporting internal audit function of a Group project manager Other services accountants Forensic work Secondment of staff other than to deemed to be to a share or Internal audit services under the prepare accounting records or financial incompatible bond issue instruction of the internal audit statements with auditor or other function Remuneration surveys independence shareholder Valuation services not material Systems recommendation and by professional circulars to the financial statements and implementation or governmental Auditing where there is not a high degree regulations of share of subjectivity schemes Independent review of the half year report Approval Executive management via the Group finance director Following a supplier review, if n a required and company secretary has delegated authority to use management does identify the the independent auditor without prior consultation independent auditor as being the best with the Committee although the nature of, and fees supplier in a specific field and also believes associated with, that work will be regularly reported that such an assignment does not run the to the Committee.
risk of prejudicing its independence, then an evaluated request will be made to the The independent auditors audit partner also has to Committee to confirm the appointment.
approve any such engagement before it can proceed.
Appointments for non-material fee levels may be approved by the Group finance director or company secretary in his absence.
The independent auditors audit partner also has to approve any such engagement before it can proceed.
Note 5 to the Financial Statements page 139 sets out the fees paid to the independent auditor for audit and non-audit work.
Approximately 90% of the non-audit fees incurred related to taxation advice and it was therefore considered appropriate, in light of PwCs detailed understanding of the Group and expertise in this area, to engage its services in this regard.
The Committee concluded that the level of non-audit fees, which represent a value of 66.7% of the audit and audit-related fees for the Group, did not have any impact upon PwCs independence.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allister Langlands Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 June 2014 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014
