Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 84 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee The Board is satis ed that Ian Duncan, who became Chairman of the Committee in July 2011, has recent and relevant financial experience and that the Committee complies with Code provision C3.1.
He is currently Chairman of the Audit Committees of, WANdisco plc and Mouchel Group and until 15 November 2013 was Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fiberweb PLC.
Until June 2010 he was Finance Director of Royal Mail Holdings PLC and other former roles have included the position of Corporate Finance Director at British Nuclear Fuels and Chief Financial Of cer and Senior Vice President at Westinghouse Electric Company LLC in Pennsylvania, USA.
With the continued growth of the Role of the Committee The purpose of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assist the Group during the year, the Committee Board in discharging its responsibilities in respect of: was, and continues to be, focused Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts on satisfying itself that the internal to ensure that what is presented, taken as a whole, is fair, and external systems of controls and balanced and understandable, and provides the information safeguards are working effectively within necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy and advising the the business to ensure that risks are Board to this effect.
In order to ensure the Annual Report is mitigated and managed appropriately.
fair, balanced and understandable the Board receives draft The Committee also spent time during wording at an early stage with suf cient time to assess the content against the monthly management reports and the year considering the signi cant accounts provided to the Board throughout the year issues affecting the financial statements Monitoring the integrity and accuracy of the Groups financial as detailed on page 86, and satisfying statements, including annual, half-year and interim results and itself that the Annual Report is a fair, management statements, and any formal announcement relating to the Companys financial performance balanced and understandable document, Reviewing signi cant reporting issues, the consistency of that allows shareholders to assess the accounting policies and disclosures, and any decisions Companys performance, business model requiring a major element of judgement and strategy.
Being satis ed there is an effective system of internal control, Ian Duncan compliance procedures, and risk management systems Chairman Approving the internal and external audit programmes and making any necessary recommendations to the Board Membership of the Committee Considering the role and independence of the external The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed by the Board on auditors, and making the appropriate recommendation to the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and is, the Board on the appointment or the reappointment of the and was during the year, made up entirely of the independent Groups external auditors Non-Executive Directors listed below for further details of the backgrounds and quali cations of the members of the Reviewing the Groups processes for detecting and addressing Committee please see page 73. fraud, bribery, misconduct and control weaknesses and Number of considering reports on any such occurrence.
meetings attended Number of meetings Member possible in the year Ian Duncan Chairman 4 of 4 Sir David Omand 4 of 4 1 Justin Crookenden 3 of 4 2 Kate Swann 3 of 4 Anna Stewart 4 of 4 1.
Justin Crookenden was unavailable for one meeting due to an unavoidable personal commitment.
Kate Swann was unavailable for one meeting due to a previously arranged engagement.
The members listed above served throughout the year to 31 March 2014 and continue to be members.
Jeff Randall joined the Committee on 1 April 2014.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Internal controls Who attends Committee meetings?
An annual review of the Companys system of internal controls Only the members of the Committee have the right to attend and their effectiveness.
Committee meetings: however, the Committee invites the Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Information assurance and cyber-security Group Financial Controller to attend its meetings.
Divisional An assessment of information assurance and cyber-security Chief Executives who are each themselves main Board maturity in the Groups operations.
Directors are also invited to attend meetings and do so on a Audit plans regular basis.
The Committee considers that the presence of Internal and external audit plans for the year or these attendees does not in uence or restrict the Committees particular audits.
open deliberation of matters or the Committees independence, and nds that their presence has the advantage of enabling Internal audit the Committee to raise questions directly of them and, where At each meeting, internal audit reports on findings from audit necessary, to challenge them about matters under review.
visits to business units, including follow-up reports on any Should a situation arise where the presence of any such matters identi ed in earlier reports as requiring attention or attendee would be inappropriate or might compromise improvement.
The reports contain tracking information to discussion the Committee would either not invite the attendee enable the Committee easily to see the control performance concerned or request that they not attend part of the meeting.
of business units over time and how quickly any matters The Group Risk Manager attends Committee meetings for are addressed.
discussion of Group risk reports and related items.
Ernst & Risk Young LLP provides internal audit services to the Company.
Review of key risks and internal control processes detailed on  LLP is the Groups external auditor.
pages 6471 Both auditors usually attend the Committees meetings.
The Committee Chairman also meets  LLP Regular detailed reports identifying areas of risk at business and Ernst & Young LLP in the absence of executive management, unit, Divisional and Group level, assessing and prioritising and other Committee members have the opportunity to do so.
potential impact, risk mitigation steps in place and the The auditors are also invited to address the Committee without preand post-mitigation risk levels executives present at least once a year.
Divisional and Group reviews of the Group risk standard The Committee undertakes its duties in accordance with its Focused reviews of selected major risk areas: political risk, terms of reference which were reviewed during the year to bidding risk and critical suppliers exposures.
ensure that they remained t for purpose and in line with best practice guidelines.
The terms of reference are available on the Fraud Companys website.
Reports to each meeting on fraud risk, covering any suspected incidents of fraud, their investigation and remedial or Activities undertaken by the Committee during preventive action.
the year During the year to 31 March 2014 the Committee met four Whistleblowing times: attendance at these meetings is set out on page 84.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Group The agenda for each meeting is approved by the Committee whistleblowing policy and receives regular reports of calls and Chairman in conjunction with the Committee Secretary and emails to the Groups external independent whistleblowing other members of the Committee as appropriate.
During the services and how these have been investigated and year ended 31 March 2014, the Committees deliberations concluded.
For further explanation of the whistleblowing included consideration of the following: procedure please see page 55.
Financial results Audit non-audit fees and auditor independence Full-year and half-year financial statements and related results Audit and non-audit fees for the external and internal auditors announcements were reviewed by the Committee and considered as to their effect on auditor independence.
Reports and reviews from the external auditors Matters that required the exercise of a signi cant element of management judgement see page 86 The new requirement for a statement from the Board as to the Annual Report and Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable and providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and advising the Board to this effect, and as to how this requirement would be discharged Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 86 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Signi cant issues considered by the Committee in Internal controls and risk management The risk management framework, risk mitigation and control relation to the financial statements: processes and other internal controls are detailed on pages 64 We are required to provide an explanation of the signi cant 71. issues that the Committee considered in relation to the financial statements for the year to 31 March 2014 and how these issues A statement regarding the effectiveness of the internal controls were addressed, having regard to matters communicated to it and control processes, including those over financial reporting, by the auditors.
In planning the year-end audit, the Committee considered with Internal audit management and the Companys auditors the key areas of focus Ernst & Young LLP has provided an internal audit service to the for the audit having in mind their signi cance to the Groups Group since 2003.
The Committee considers that it is still reporting of results and the degree of judgement involved in appropriate to have an internal audit service provided by an their evaluation.
The signi cant issues considered in relation to external adviser, but keeps this under review.
The Committee the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 continues to be satis ed with the service provided by and the and how the Committee addressed them are set out in the independence of Ernst & Young LLP acting as internal auditor.
following table: External audit Signi cant Issue How the Committee addressed it The Committee manages the relationship with the external Contract The Committee considered the material auditor on behalf of the Board and monitors the auditors judgements contracts that require a signi cant degree independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of revenue and of management judgement that could the external audit on an annual basis.
Audit fees are re-evaluated pro t recognition materially affect the appropriate accounting periodically.
treatment for them: these were the subject of discussion and challenge with The Committee is aware of and is following the debate led by management to ensure that the Committee the Competition Commission in the UK and the European Union is satis ed as to the reasonableness of about the market for the provision of audit services, including those judgements as to the question of the length of time for which audit rms Pensions The Committee assessed the particular should provide audit services and requirements for companies accounting the assumptions proposed to be used by periodically to re-tender the provision of those services.
choice of management and their impact on scheme  LLP PwC has been the external auditor assumptions in assets and liabilities in the context of of the Group since 2002 without a re-tender in that time.
The the valuation for assumptions being used in respect of the Committees current intention is to embark on a re-tendering accounting same factors by other companies and the process no later than 2017 when the current audit engagement purposes of the pensions industry more widely partner at PwC is due to rotate out of that role having served in liabilities of the it for five years.
There are no contractual obligations that would Groups fide ned restrict the selection of a different auditor or the re-tendering bene t schemes process taking place earlier than 2017 should the Committee Business The Committee reviewed and challenged consider, having regard amongst other things to PwCs acquisitions managements assessment of value in the continued effectiveness, that it would be in the Companys goodwill context of, inter alia, cash ow forecasts, interest to do so.
PwCs effectiveness in the provision of audit impairment budget, growth rates, and having services is regularly assessed by the Committee and its Chairman assessed sensitivities in their meetings with PwC, and after each annual audit there is a review of the effectiveness of PwCs audit services in that audit, which review includes the provision to PwC and discussion with it of detailed feedback from those exposed to the audit process within the Group.
The question of PwCs continuing independence in the provision of audit services is considered and discussed with PwC including the basis upon which that assessment can reasonably be made and supported.
Being satis ed with PwCs continuing independence and with the effectiveness of its provision of audit services, and PwC having expressed its willingness to be re-appointed as auditors of the Company, the Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC be re-appointed as the Companys auditors for a further year.
The Board has accepted this recommendation and will be proposing a resolution to shareholders at the 2014 AGM for the re-appointment of PwC as auditors.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Non-audit fees The Committee regularly considers the engagement of, and level of fees payable to, the auditors for non-audit work, considering potential con icts and the possibility of actual or perceived threats to their independence.
The Companys policy is to consider whether to place material non-audit services work with external auditors on a case-by-case basis based on an assessment of who is best placed to do the work having regard to the availability, resources, capability, experience and any con icts of interest of potential candidate rms for the work, and to make the choice based on what is considered to be in the Companys best interest overall having regard to potential independence issues if the work is placed with the Companys auditors.
Non-audit services offered to the auditor would not include the design or operation of financial information systems, internal audit services, maintenance or preparation of accounting records or financial statements that would be subject to external audit or work that might reasonably be considered as capable of compromising their independence as auditors.
If use of the auditors for non-audit work would lead to non-audit fees payable to them in the year exceeding 20% of their audit fee, the Committee Chairmans approval is required.
Having considered the non-audit services provided by the auditor during the year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee is satis ed that these services were provided effectively and did not prejudice the objectivity or independence of the auditor.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee has approved the payment to PwC of fees of 1.7 million for audit services, and of fees of 2.7 million for non-audit related work, including work in connection with the proposal to acquire the Avincis Group and the Prospectus and Circular and related accounting work and accounting due diligence in connection with that transaction, part of which is required under auditing standards to be performed by the Companys auditors and other ancillary work where PwC were well placed to carry it out most effectively.
Non-audit related work accounted for 61.4% of the total audit and non-audit related fees paid to the external auditor during the year.
A breakdown of fees paid to the auditor is set out in note 5 on page 142.
Ian Duncan Committee Chairman 19 May 2014
