Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Report of the Nominations Committee Considering succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group, both Executive and Non-Executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace Identifying and making recommendations for the approval of the Board regarding candidates to ll Board vacancies: and reviewing the time required from Non-Executive Directors for the performance of their duties to the Company.
We continue to seek Board candidates When considering recommendations on the appointment to the Board the Committee has in mind the strategic plans and the who can contribute towards the Board development of the business in both existing and new market having a range and balance of skills, sectors and with new, and new types of, customers, both in the experience, perception, approach and UK and internationally, and the need to maintain the Boards credibility in its chosen business areas.
The Committee also takes outlook to help support and develop the into account as part of its deliberations the Boards aspiration long-term success of the Company and intent to foster and encourage greater diversity, including gender diversity, of outlook, background, perception and Mike Turner experience at Board level.
As discussed on page 80, in making Chairman recommendations on future appointments to the Board the Committee will ensure that due consideration is given to issues Membership of the Committee of diversity when compiling its shortlist of suitable candidates.
The Nominations Committee is appointed by the Board and, in accordance with Code provision B.
2.1, is made up of In appointing Jeff Randall as a new independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors with a requirement for there to be a Director the Committee did not, on this occasion, use an majority of independent Directors.
It is chaired by the Chairman external search consultancy or open advertising.
The Chairman of the Board.
Other Directors are invited to attend meetings of was made aware that Mr Randall would be available to take up the Committee, if appropriate.
The current membership of the a non-executive appointment when he retired from his active Committee, and its membership during the year to 31 March career in journalism.
With his very different business and 2014 as well as attendance at Committee meetings, is shown professional background and the resulting fresh perspective and below.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
approach he could bring to the Board, especially as regards external perceptions, the Committee believed he was a unique Committee attendance and exceptional candidate for consideration.
Each member of the Board met or was offered the opportunity of meeting Jeff to Number of meetings attended interview him and assess, in their personal opinion, his suitability Number of meetings for the role.
The full Board then discussed the matter before Member possible in the year resolving to make the appointment.
Mike Turner Chairman 2 of 2 Many of the matters within the Committees remit are addressed Ian Duncan 2 of 2 with all Board members present or taken as speci c items at Sir David Omand 2 of 2 full Board meetings.
Recommendations as to improving the 1 Justin Crookenden 1 of 2 Committees proceedings and arising out of the independent Kate Swann 2 of 2 Board evaluation this year are mentioned on page 80.
Anna Stewart 2 of 2 Activities undertaken by the Committee during 1.
Justin Crookenden was unavailable for one meeting due to an unavoidable the year personal commitment.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee: The members listed above served throughout the year to 31 March 2014 and oversaw and made recommendations on the selection and continue to be members.
Jeff Randall joined the Committee on 1 April 2014. appointment of Jeff Randall to the Board Responsibilities of the Committee reviewed succession planning at Board and senior The Committee is responsible for making recommendations management level.
to the Board, within its agreed terms of reference, on appointments to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Mike Turner CBE Committee are available on the Companys website.
Committee Chairman The Committee is also to assist the Board in discharging its 19 May 2014 responsibilities in respect of: Regularly reviewing and evaluating the size, structure and composition including the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regards to any changes
