Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74 Governance statement We understand the need continually to develop and evolve the Board to make it relevant and appropriately experienced in the Maintaining light of both near-term and longer-term business strategy and operations, especially as we become more international in our outlook and activities.
Our 2014 Board, Committee and Director evaluation exercise was led externally by Independent Board high standards Evaluation, a business with wide experience and expertise in carrying out senior level evaluations.
There were no signi cant concerns highlighted as a result of this process.
The principal recommendations emerging from this evaluation review are described on page 80.
We are addressing and will continue to address the matters identi ed as areas for focus and improvement.
At Babcock we are committed to working towards building a more diverse workforce and are now actively considering diversity in our succession planning, talent management, recruitment and training and development programmes, as well as looking generally at how working arrangements might be helping or hindering our objectives.
Further information on our approach to the diversity challenge can be found on pages 80 81.
As I mentioned on page 5, Jeff Randall joined the Babcock Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 April 2014.
Jeff brings with him a wealth of experience from his many years as a business journalist and broadcaster.
I look forward to Jeff bringing a fresh and new perspective to the Board and our Committees.
Finally, as touched upon in my statement on page 5, I must also mention that after nine years of exemplary service as a Non-Executive Director and five years as our conscientious and hardworking Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Justin Crookenden will be leaving the Board on 30 November 2014, Dear Shareholder and will step down from the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee at the AGM in July.
Justin has been a Non-Executive As Chairman I am committed to ensuring that your Board Director for all of my time as Chairman at Babcock, and operates in an effective, transparent and ethical manner, and the Board and Company have bene ted greatly from his that we make our decisions based only on what we believe is intelligence, insight, dedication and independence of thought likely to be for the bene t of shareholders by promoting and and his active and challenging participation in our proceedings maintaining the longterm success of the Company and its for which I, together with the rest of the Board, wish to reputation, having regard, amongst other things, to the interests thank him.
of our employees, our business relationships and the wider impact of our operations.
In our deliberations as a Board I seek to encourage and foster open, honest and challenging discussion.
The Board understands how good governance and the promotion of ethical business practices can sustain and drive forward the business, and thus our results, whilst managing or Mike Turner CBE mitigating risks.
Chairman Good governance means more than merely complying with a set of rules and regulations, and one of our main aims is to seek to embed within our business a culture that ensures colleagues continue to behave in an ethical and principled manner and in compliance with our governance and risk management processes.
To encourage this approach we have a number of processes and procedures designed to facilitate appropriate, sound working practices and good governance in a practicable and achievable way.
The Governance statement, along with the reports of the Nominations, Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees form part of the information contained within the Directors report on pages 117 to 122.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Governance Code Compliance Statement Board of Directors Babcock International Group PLC is required to report on The Board of Directors of Babcock International Group PLC the how it has applied in the year under review the UK Corporate Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders Governance Code the Code, a revised version of which was for the long-term success of the Company.
This responsibility published in September 2012.
The Code sets out the main includes matters of strategy, performance, resources, standards principles and speci c provisions on how companies of conduct and accountability.
The Board also has ultimate should be directed and controlled in order to follow good responsibility for corporate governance which it discharges governance practice.
either directly or through its Committees and the structures described in the following pages of this Governance report.
The Board considers that Babcock International Group PLC complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout the The current Directors biographies are set out on page 73. year to 31 March 2014, and has appropriately explained on The Board is satis ed that each Director has the necessary time page 83 as required by the Code why the process used in to devote to the effective discharge of their responsibilities connection with a Non-Executive Director appointment and that between them the Directors have a blend of skills, did not involve the use of external search consultancies or experience, knowledge and independence suited to the open advertising.
Companys needs and its continuing development.
The powers of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles, which may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
The Articles are available for inspection online at www.
com and can also be seen at the Companys registered of ce.
Babcock governance structure Board See p75 Audit Group Nominations Chief Remuneration and Risk Finance Committee Executive Committee Committee Director See p83 See p73 and 78 See p88 See p84 See p73 Security Diversity Group Executive Board and Health and Steering Finance Committee Divisional Safety Steering Group Committee Security Board Group See p79 See p61 See p76 See p65 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 76 Governance statement continued Board matters and delegation Key areas of focus during the year The Board has established a formal schedule of matters During the year some of the key areas the Board focused speci cally reserved for its approval.
It has delegated other on included: speci c responsibilities to its Committees and these are clearly Strategy Risk fide ned within the respective Committees terms of reference.
Extensive consideration of Review of security policies the proposed acquisition and procedures Summary of key Board reserved matters of Avincis and the rights Review of internal controls Group strategy and resourcing issue announced on and risk management 27 March 2014 and Interim and final results announcements and the annual through the Audit and associated matters report and financial statements Risk Committee Consideration of other Dividend policy Review of acquisition and strategic acquisitions and integration risks Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside partnerships during the delegated limits year including: Legal updates and litigation reports Signi cant contracts not in the ordinary course of Context Information business Security Insurance.
Major changes to the Groups management or Conbras control structure National Training Institute Changes relating to the Companys capital structure or Oman status as a listed PLC Skills2Learn Annual budgets Two special Board meetings Major capital expenditure dedicated to strategy Major changes in governance, accounting, tax or Business unit strategy treasury policies updates and presentations Internal controls and risk management systems through Financial planning, the Audit and Risk Committee including budgets and dividend policy Major press releases and shareholder circulars.
Business development opportunities and Board Committee terms of reference and other delegated pipeline review authorities are formalised and reviewed from time to time.
Key Committee terms of reference are available to view on Succession planning.
Shareholder relations Governance In addition to the principal Committees of the Board the Annual Report and Accounts Review of Board Remuneration Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee effectiveness in conjunction Annual General Meeting and the Nominations Committee each of which has its own with an independent report in the pages that follow the Board from time to time Independent investor external consultancy establishes committees to deal with speci c matters on its relations surveys and Health and safety review behalf.
The Board also allows for routine matters or the feedback reports implementation of formal steps for matters approved in principle Anti-bribery and corruption Monthly investor relations by the Board to be dealt with by a Board meeting of any two and risk management and shareholder Directors, but these are later rati ed by the full Board.
update engagement reports There is also a Group Finance Committee consisting of any two Review of terms of Review of analyst reports.
Directors, one of whom must be the Group Finance Director, to reference of Board approve borrowing, guarantees, treasury and related matters Committees within its terms of reference.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 During the year there were no changes made to the Board.
Composition of the Board The following changes were made, or will be made to the Throughout the year to 31 March 2014, the Board comprised Board after 31 March 2014: the Chairman, five Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
From 1 April 2014 there has also been Date of an additional independent Non-Executive Director making six in New Directors Appointment total.
This structure is in accordance with Code provision B1.2.
Jeff Randall 1 April 2014 The Board believes that its make-up allows for the promotion of high quality discussion and consideration of key issues affecting Directors who will retire the Group, including development of the business in both existing and new market sectors and with new and new types of Justin Crookenden has indicated his intention to retire from the customers, both in the UK and internationally.
The composition Board on 30 November 2014 of the Board is kept under review to ensure that the skill, knowledge and experience of its members is or will be Election of Directors suitable to meet the longer-term needs of the business and The process for the selection and subsequent appointment of its strategic development plans: this is the primary focus of new Directors to the Board is described in the Nominations the Nominations Committee.
Committee section on page 83 of this Report.
Following the feedback from the independent Board evaluation process Composition of the Board described on page 80 the Board has accepted that the formality around this process, better to meet the requirements of rigour and transparency, could be improved and steps are in hand to act on this.
Executive Directors 5 The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of 6 2.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Directors are contained within the Companys Articles of 3.
The Articles of Association provide that Directors 1 may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in that way retires and is 2 submitted for election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
Jeff Randall, who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2014 will be complying with this requirement, and, in compliance with provision B.
7.1 As at 19 May 2014 of the Code, all other existing Directors will be seeking reelection at the 2014 AGM.
The names and biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 72 and 73.
Period of service on the Board Executive Directors are entitled to 12 months notice of termination of their service agreements from the Company.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, have letters of appointment which can be terminated at will.
9 years 2 2 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 78 Governance statement continued Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive The Chairman is responsible for leadership and overall The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day effectiveness of the Board.
In particular, his role is to: leadership of the business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
In particular, his role with the Chief Executive, demonstrate ethical leadership is to: and promote the highest standards of integrity and probity throughout the business develop strategic proposals and annual plans for recommendation to the Board and ensure that agreed ensure effective operation of the Board and its strategies are implemented in the business.
Committees in conformity with the highest standards of corporate governance develop an organisational structure, establishing processes and systems, and planning people resourcing set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to to ensure that the Company has the capabilities and promote constructive debate and effective decisionresources required to achieve its plans making and ensure that the ow of information to the Board is accurate, timely and clear be responsible to the Board for the performance of the business consistent with agreed plans, strategies and build an effective and complementary Board, with the policies appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge, initiating change and planning succession, as well demonstrate and communicate to the Groups employees as ensuring Director development and leading the the expectation of the Board with regard to ethical and evaluation of the performance of the Board, its cultural values and behaviours, promoting the highest Committees and individual Directors standards of good governance foster effective working relationships between the oversee the application of Group policies and Executive and Non-Executive Directors and support the governance procedures as regards health and safety Chief Executive in the development of strategy and, and environment matters more broadly, support and advise the Chief Executive develop and promote effective communication with ensure effective communication with shareholders, shareholders and other relevant constituencies.
governments and other relevant constituencies and that the views of these groups are understood by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director Sir David Omand is currently and has throughout the year been The Chairman and Chief Executive the Senior Independent Director.
Shareholders can bring matters The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief to his attention if they have concerns which have not been Executive are separate, clearly established, set out in writing, resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is Executive or Group Finance Director, or if these channels are responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board not deemed appropriate.
The Chairman looks to the Senior as a whole, and the Chief Executive for the management of Independent Director as a sounding board and he is available as the Group and the successful planning and implementation of an intermediary between the other Directors and the Chairman.
The descriptions above summarise their current The Senior Independent Director is also responsible for leading respective roles and responsibilities.
A copy of the formal written the Non-Executive Directors in the annual performance statement is also maintained on the Companys website at evaluation of the Chairman.
The speci c role of the Senior www.
com Independent Director has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 The Non-Executive Directors The Group Executive Committee The independent Non-Executive Directors bring external The Group Executive Committee is not a formal Board perspectives and insight to the Board and its Committees Committee and has no delegated powers as such.
It is made up deliberations, providing a range of knowledge and business or of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, Divisional other experience from other sectors and undertakings see their Chief Executives, the Company Secretary and General Counsel biographies on page 73.
They play an important role in the and the Group Director of Organisation and Development.
It is formulation and progression of the Boards agreed strategy, also attended by the heads of the principal overseas operations.
and review and monitor the performance of the executive It is scheduled to meet ten times a year and reviews and management in the implementation of this strategy.
For the year discusses all matters of material signi cance to the Groups ending 31 March 2014 the Board considered the balance of management, operational and financial performance as well as independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors strategic development.
Minutes of its meetings are circulated to was in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an expected initial Board meetings for the year ending 31 March 2014 three-year term though the appointments are terminable at will The Board has at least ten scheduled full Board meetings each by either party at any time, subject to their annual re-election financial year and two other meetings devoted solely to strategy.
by shareholders at the AGM, commencing with their election by The Chairman also meets separately with Non-Executive shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Directors without Executive Directors or other managers Board.
Re-appointment after the expiry of their three-year terms present from time to time.
Debate and discussion at Board and is subject to review by the Nominations Committee.
The Board Committee meetings is encouraged to be open, challenging considers the independence of each Non-Executive Director and constructive.
Directors regularly receive presentations against criteria speci ed in the Code.
The Board is conscious by functional and operational senior managers.
In the Board that before extending the appointment of any Non-Executive and Committee evaluation reviews, no Directors expressed Director in of ce over six years they should be subject to a dissatisfaction with the timing or quality of information particularly rigorous review of their performance and provided to them.
The only Non-Executive Director to whom this Board meeting attendance applied during the year was Justin Crookenden whose current period of appointment was due to expire at the AGM in July Attendance at 2014 and whose appointment has been extended, subject to Name Board meetings his re-election at the AGM, for four months until 30 November Chairman 2014 as noted on page 74 in this report.
The performance of Mike Turner 12 of 12 all Directors is evaluated as part of the Board annual evaluation Executive Directors process described on page 80.
The Board also determines Peter Rogers 12 of 12 whether it considers each Non-Executive Director to be Bill Tame 12 of 12 independent in character and judgement which the Board currently does in respect of all existing Non-Executive Directors.
Kevin Thomas 12 of 12 The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Archie Bethel 12 of 12 Directors, together with the service contracts for Executive John Davies 12 of 12 Directors, are available for inspection at the Companys Non-Executive Directors registered of ce during normal business hours, and at the Sir David Omand 12 of 12 AGM.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently of management on Justin Crookenden 1 11 of 12 several occasions.
Ian Duncan 12 of 12 Kate Swann 2 11 of 12 The Company Secretary Anna Stewart 12 of 12 The Company Secretary is responsible, under direction from the Chairman, for ensuring the appropriate information ows Jeff Randall 3 N A to the Board and its Committees to facilitate their discussions 1.
Justin Crookenden was absent for one meeting due to unavoidable personal and allow fully informed decisions to be made.
Secretary also ensures the Non-Executive Directors have 2.
Kate Swann was unavailable for one meeting due to a prearranged access to senior management where required, as well as engagement.
ensuring an appropriate induction process and ongoing 3.
Jeff Randall joined the Board on 1 April 2014. training is in place for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary advises the Board and its Committees Board evaluation on governance matters.
The Board commissions an external independent review of its effectiveness and that of its Committees and members at least every other year, with an internally-led review in the alternate years.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80 Governance statement continued broadly based external perspective, especially in the context Review for year ending 31 March 2014 of reputation management and the how the Company and its The evaluation for the financial year ending 31 March 2014 Board operate and may be perceived was carried out externally by Independent Board Evaluation this rm and its representatives had no other connections with the Maintaining the momentum of a growth strategy: As can be Company and involved con dential one-on-one meetings with seen by the acquisitions we have completed or announced each Director, the Company Secretary, other senior managers during the year, including the major acquisition of Avincis, the and also representatives from certain external advisers who work Board continued to focus on a strategy of long-term growth closely with the Board or its Committees.
The review considered Overseeing and running a much larger and changing the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge organisation: Babcock continued to seek to recruit high of the Board, its diversity including gender, how the Board, its quality, skilled resource in a best t for the job approach, Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors performed and has one of the largest apprentice programmes in the UK.
and how they worked together and other factors relevant to Our MBA and graduate schemes are intended to ensure that effectiveness.
As part of the evaluation process, representatives we have the required talent coming through the business with from Independent Board Evaluation attended, as observers, a view to promoting the next generation of skilled employees a Board meeting, an Audit and Risk Committee meeting and and management from within.
The Board is well aware of a Remuneration Committee meeting.
Independent Board the requirements of running a larger company and the need Evaluations con rmed that no signi cant concerns had been for management structures and resources to underpin expressed by Board or Committee members as to the way in performance.
At a divisional level a number of management which the Board or Board Committees functioned, the support and organisational changes have been made to address the given to them, the matters covered at their meetings or increased size and scope of operations, including by the how they were dealt with, or as to the contribution of any recruitment of a number of internal specialists in areas such individual Director.
as procurement, supply chain management, health and safety, Recommendations for primary areas of focus or consideration business development and security.
going forward were: Diversity Senior management team succession and transition planning: Babcock recognises that in making decisions regarding making it more visible, ensuring its robustness, and taking into succession planning, recruitment, promotion and training there account long-term strategy needs to be an active consideration of the bene ts of diversity, Continuing to nd time for consideration of both medium and including gender diversity, and the Board is clear that its longer-term strategy aspiration and intent is to see an increasing number of women in senior executive management roles and throughout the Planning for more international experience and diversity at workforce as a whole to be achieved consistently with Babcocks Board level best for the job philosophy.
Talent management and bench strength below Board level As discussed previously on page 61, we believe that diversity should continue to be a key area of focus should not be about rm quotas, or solely a gender debate.
Improving consistency and the level of formality in the Board Instead, we should look at engaging a wide-ranging approach appointment process to ensure our workforce re ects the richness of our society and that everyone has the opportunity to contribute towards the Having more, regular Chairman and Non-Executive Director success of the Company.
In considering the issues around gender diversity we can report The Board is addressing and will continue to address the above that Babcock has: matters and will report back to shareholders on progress in the 2015 Annual Report.
two female Directors: this currently represents 16.6% of the Board and 33% of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Follow up on the review for year ending With effect from 30 November 2014, following the 31 March 2013 retirement of Justin Crookenden, and subject to no further As reported last year, the Board evaluation for the year ending appointments to the Board, these gures will be 18% and 31 March 2013 was conducted internally, facilitated by the 40% respectively as set out on page 81.
In making future Company Secretary, and involved one-on-one interviews appointments the Board will ensure that due consideration between the Chairman and each Director.
Key areas of focus to is given to the issues of diversity when compiling a shortlist come out of that review and how they were addressed in the of suitable candidates year to 31 March 2014 included: a Diversity Awareness Campaign across the whole Group led Succession planning: This was a key priority and major area by the Chief Executive of focus for the Board involving a review of the succession a Diversity Steering Group, meeting several times a year plan, management development and talent identi cation programmes and systems run diversity workshops within business units Ensuring Board credibility in new business areas: The Chairman focused its graduate recruitment programme, particularly of continued to have this under review.
Jeff Randall, a highly engineering graduates, on those universities that have a richer respected business and financial journalist, joined the Board undergraduate gender mix so as to improve the diversity of on 1 April 2014 with a view to bringing an objective and the pool of talent from which we recruit our engineers and Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 managers of the future this is already bearing fruit and Information and training for Directors female graduates now make up 20% of the annual intake New Non-Executive Directors receive detailed business brie ngs arranged a Talented Futures conference which discussed on the Groups operations and make induction visits to issues around diversity operational sites.
Those who have not previously served as a director of a listed company receive a brie ng from the Babcock is also actively considering how to make Companys external lawyers on their duties and responsibilities.
management roles more attractive and amenable to female candidates so as to increase the numbers of women in As required by the Chairman, training for new Directors and management.
A breakdown of gender diversity throughout ongoing general Director training is arranged as necessary or the Company is given in the illustration below: as they may request, and the Company Secretary briefs Board members about signi cant changes in the law or governance Board codes affecting their duties as Directors.
Non-Executive Directors may at any time make visits to Group businesses or operational sites and Board visits are also made to sites.
Presentations on the Groups businesses and specialist 1.
Female 18% 2 functions are made to the Group Board from time to time.
Male 82% 9 Non-Executive Directors receive copies of all minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee and of the principal Divisional Boards, together with copies of monthly divisional operating reports which also cover health, safety and environmental matters and compliance with the Groups ethical and security standards.
They are also invited to attend 2 the Groups senior management conferences.
Share capital and rights attaching to the As at 31 March 2014.
For the period 1 April 2014 to 30 November 2014 Companys shares when Justin Crookenden will leave the Board there will be 16.7% 2 female Directors and 83.3% 10 male Directors on the Board.
Details concerning the Companys share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in the Directors report on page 121.
Senior executive Relations with shareholders The Board believes it is important to maintain open and constructive relationships with all of its shareholders large and small, institutional and private.
Female 19.8% 113 1 Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations undertake a 2.
Male 80.2% 459 programme of meetings, conference calls and presentations to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance with investors, brokers sales teams and analysts.
During the year the Company met 129 separate institutions in 132 meetings including a number of group meetings in the UK, USA and 2 Europe.
The Company offers meetings with the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to its top 20 shareholders at least twice a year, and in the year to 31 March 2014 a total of 40 meetings were held with our top 20 shareholders.
In addition, Senior executives refers to all divisional business unit managing directors and their direct reports.
the Chairman wrote to our largest 16 shareholders inviting them to meet with him to discuss strategy, performance and corporate governance matters.
Both the Chairman and Total workforce Sir David Omand, the Senior Independent Director, are available to shareholders should they have any concerns where contact through the normal channels is deemed inappropriate or where they believe their matter has not been adequately resolved.
Male 79.5% 22,370 2 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 82 Governance statement continued The Company ensures that the Board has an up to date How we communicate perspective on the views and opinions of shareholders and the Results and trading updates investment market.
An investor relations report summarising available as audio casts at www.
com investors When share price performance compared to market, changes to the shareholder register and feedback from shareholders is Full-year and half-year results: May and produced for each Board meeting.
For the third consecutive announcement and presentation November 2013 year, the Company also commissioned Clare Williams Associates Interim management statements July 2013 and to undertake a Market Perception Review to provide an and conference call with Group February 2014 independent evaluation of investor attitudes towards the Group.
Finance Director This year 11 investors, including some of the Companys major Other presentations When shareholders, accounting for around 20% of the shareholder By Group Finance Director, Divisional May, June, September, register, as well as some non-holding institutions.
The results Chief Executives and Head of Investor November, 2013 and were formally presented to the Board in October 2013.
Relations at company and or broker March 2014 organised conferences Signi cant shareholdings Dealings with shareholders, investors and analysts As at 31 March 2014, the Company had been noti ed in Resolutions of AGM available at accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency www.
com investors When Rules of the following major interests in voting rights attached to 132 meetings with shareholders and Throughout its ordinary shares which represent interests in 3% or more of its potential investors issued ordinary share capital.
22 meetings with sell side analysts and Throughout Number of 60p brokers sales teams ordinary shares % of issued on date of share capital at Letter from the Group Chairman to July 2013 Name noti cation 31 March 2014 leading shareholders The Capital Group Companies Inc. 21,910,915 6.05 Marine and Technology Analyst and September 2013 Blackrock, Inc. 18,147,899 5.01 Investor Seminar Cantillon Capital LLC 17,938,977 4.95 Roadshow in London and Edinburgh May and Standard Life Investments Limited 17,928,896 4.95 November 2013 FMR LLC 17,700,915 4.89 Annual General Meeting July 2013 Legal & General Group Plc 14,325,920 3.96 Roadshow in Frankfurt June 2013 JP Morgan Chase & Co. 11,376,214 3.14 Roadshow in Milan September 2013 Ameriprise Financial Inc. 11,330,063 3.13 Prior to the announcement of the proposed acquisition of Avincis, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director met On 28 April the Company was noti ed that the Capital Group with a number of the Groups top shareholders, representing of Companies Inc. had increased their holdings in the Company approximately 38% of the share register, to explain the strategic to 9.4%.
This disclosure was made on the basis that did not yet rationale of the transaction.
Following the announcement and re ect the share capital as increased by the rights issue which prior to the General Meeting on 16 April 2014 a number of completed on 7 May 2014.
Subsequently on 9 May 2014 shareholders who wanted to discuss the transaction with Capital Group of Companies Inc. noti ed the Company that management were offered individual or group meetings or their holdings had decreased to 6.8% on completion of the conference calls.
There had been no further noti cations between 31 March 2014 and the date of this report.
Over 75% of all Babcock shares are held by institutional shareholders.
Whilst it is normal practice for institutional funds Annual General Meeting to have a greater degree of contact with the Company, all The 2014 AGM will be held at 12:00 pm on 21 July 2014 at shareholders are welcome to raise questions with the Board the Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane, London, W1K 7TN.
at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, on a day-to-day The Company will send notice of the AGM and any related basis our investor relations team engages with shareholders on papers at least 20 working days prior to the date of the a wide range of issues.
To assist our private and international meeting in accordance with best practice standards.
shareholders, the investor relations team makes sure that All shareholders are welcome.
The event provides a platform for all price-sensitive information is released in accordance the Chairman and Chief Executive to explain how the Company with the applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
has progressed during the year.
It also provides all shareholders All announcements and major presentations given to with the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman of the institutional shareholders, along with annual reports, Board, the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nomination and shareholder circulars, shareholder services information, Remuneration Committees, and the Senior Independent other stock exchange releases and share price information, Director.
At these meetings a poll is conducted on each are made available to all shareholders through the Babcock resolution: shareholders also have the opportunity to cast their website www.
votes by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Directors also make themselves available before and after the AGM to talk informally to shareholders.
Following each AGM the results of the poll are published on the Companys website and released to the London Stock Exchange.
