Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board and its responsibilities ATTENDANCE BY INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS AT MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES IN 2014 Corporate The Board has adopted a governance Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration structure based on the principles of the UK Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Corporate Governance Code as published in Paul Anderson 11 11 2 2 2 2 September 2012 the Code, which includes Sir Roger Carr 11 11 2 2 the following governance principles: Jerry DeMuro 11 11 Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy Harriet Green 8 11 4 4 1 1 for the Company: Chris Grigg 11 11 1 1 6 6 Ian King 11 11 Performance overseeing the performance Peter Lynas 11 11 of the Group and also evaluating its own Paula Rosput Reynolds 10 11 7 7 1 1 performance: Nick Rose 11 11 7 7 2 2 6 6 Standards and values setting standards Carl Symon 11 11 1 1 6 6 and values to guide the affairs of the Group: Ian Tyler 11 11 7 7 4 4 1 1 Oversight monitoring the effectiveness ofthe Companys risk management and There is a clear division of responsibility at In general, non-executive directors help internal control systems: and the head of the Company and these are develop the Companys strategy, scrutinise People ensuring the Group is managed detailed in the Operational Framework.
The the performance of management in meeting byindividuals with the necessary skills and Chairman leads the Board and is responsible agreed goals and objectives, and monitor experience, and that appointments to the for ensuring that it discharges its duties thereporting of performance.
The Board Board are managed effectively.
The Chief Executive is considers all of the non-executive directors, responsible for the implementation and with the exception of the Chairman, to be Pursuant to these principles, the Board delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
independent for the purposes of the Code.
hasput in place a detailed governance framework, the Operational Framework, The Senior Independent Director acts as a All directors seek election on an annual which includes the Companys Code of sounding board for the Chairman and acts basis at the Annual General Meeting.
It sets out how we do business as an intermediary for the other directors Attendance by individual directors at across BAE Systems and encapsulates the when necessary.
He is also available to meetings of the Board and its committees Companys values, policies and processes, shareholders if they have concerns which in2014 is shown above.
together with clear levels of delegated cannot be addressed through the normal authority aimed at ensuring that all of its channels.
The Company Secretary is employees and businesses act in a clear, responsible to the Board for ensuring that accountable and consistent manner.
board procedures are complied with.
BOARD COMMITTEES BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE P61 COMMITTEE P64 COMMITTEE P66 COMMITTEE P67 Nick Rose Ian Tyler Sir Roger Carr Carl Symon Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Paula Rosput Reynolds Harriet Green Harriet Green Chris Grigg Ian Tyler Chris Grigg Nick Rose Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Carl Symon Ian Tyler BAE Systems 58 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance scheduled for the year.
These include An induction programme is agreed for all Board effectiveness objectives concerning Board succession new directors aimed at ensuring they are This section considers the effectiveness of the planning and how the Company identi es able to develop an understanding and board of directors and the way in which the and develops future leaders.
Objectives have awareness of the Companys core provisions of the Code have been addressed.
also been agreed that will build on the processes, its people and businesses.
In Annual evaluation strategy work the Board undertook last year, addition, as part of the induction process, The Boards evaluation in respect of and ensure that directors continue to new directors will typically visit the Groups performance in 2014 was facilitated develop the depth of their understanding of principal operations in order to meet internally by way of a questionnaire produced both strategic and key operational matters.
employees, and gain an understanding of by the Company Secretary and completed by Finally, the Board will continue to re ne its the Groups products and services.
This included questions on the processes to ensure that the use of modern training is provided for the Board and quality of the decisions made, the process technology improves the ef ciency and individual directors as required.
used to reach those decisions and the effectiveness of reporting.
Information for the Board contribution of individual members of the The Board evaluation also included an The Chairman, with the assistance of the Board.
The completed questionnaires were assessment of performance against the Company Secretary, is responsible for analysed by the Chairman and also by the objectives agreed for last year.
The table ensuring that directors are supplied with Senior Independent Director.
The results of below summarises this assessment.
information in a timely manner that is in a the survey as they applied to the Board were form and of a quality appropriate to enable discussed collectively and objectives for Board induction them to discharge their duties.
The Chairman will meet with On appointment, all non-executive directors each director to provide feedback on are advised of the likely time commitments In the normal course of business, such individual performance.
Feedback on the and are asked to seek approval from the information is provided by the Chief Chairmans own performance will be provided Nominations Committee if they wish to take Executive in a regular report to the Board by the Senior Independent Director, Nick Rose.
The that includes information on operational ability of individual directors to allocate matters, strategic developments, reports Having reviewed the analysis of the feedback suf cient time to the discharge of their onthe performance of Group operations, provided by directors, the Board has agreed responsibilities is, where necessary, part financial performance relative to the business objectives for 2015, which will be monitored ofthe directors annual evaluation process plan, business development, corporate and progressed at the board meetings overseen by the Chairman.
BOARD OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2014 OBJECTIVES 2014 ACHIEVEMENTS Strategy Focus on developing a more detailed strategic During 2014, the Board undertook a comprehensive review of the business, which has provided a deeper understanding of the Companys businesses understanding of current activity and has established a platform for longer-term strategic planning.
Ensure that the strategy for the Companys The strategy for Applied Intelligence continued to develop during the year, with the SilverSky acquisition Applied Intelligence business is optimised to accelerating the Groups strategy to grow its commercial cyber business.
access fully the growth potential of the cyber security market.
Succession planning Engage with all directors on executive The membership of the Nominations Committee was expanded to include all non-executive directors development and succession planning.
This has helped facilitate wider board-level engagement on executive development andsuccession planning.
Increase the levels of diversity and bench During the year, the Board initiated additional work on diversity and succession planning for key strength in key roles and make progress roles, but it is recognised that there is more to do in these areas and this is re ected in the Boards againstthe Companys diversity objectives.
Risk and risk management The Board to continue reviewing the level A review of principal risks was incorporated into the Boards strategy review process.
ofriskitis willing to takein achieving its strategicobjectives.
Board development Develop a wider understanding byall directors Facilitated by the Group Finance Director and Group Business Development executives, non-executive ofthe use and management ofcommercial directors participated in a training session aimed at developing a deeper understanding of the offsetarrangements.
Use site visits by individual non-executive Whilst some site visits were undertaken by directors during the year, additional emphasis will be placed directorsto help develop a deeper on this in 2015. understandingofthe Company.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 59 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED to continue in operation and meet its Business planning and Shareholder engagement liabilities as they fall due over the periods goingconcern The Company has a well-developed investor used for the assessment.
In doing so, it is The Company has developed an annual relations programme managed by the Chief recognised that such future assessments Integrated Business Planning IBP process, Executive, Group Finance Director and are subject to a level of uncertainty that which comprises a strategic plan, a financial Investor Relations Director.
In addition, the increases with time and, therefore, future forecast for the current year and financial Chairman is available to meet with major outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted projections for the next five years.
The IBP shareholders and is in regular contact with with certainty.
Also, this assessment was represents a common process with standard them so as to keep them informed of made recognising the principal risks that outputs and requirements that produces progress on corporate governance matters.
could have an impact on the future consolidated plans at both the Group level In order to assist in developing an performance of the Company see pages and at a number of levels within the understanding of the views of major 50to 53.
The plan is reviewed each year shareholders, each year the Company bythe Board as part of its strategy review commissions a survey of investors Accounting standards require that directors process.
Once approved by the Board, undertaken by external consultants.
satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for theIBP is cascaded down across all the them to conclude whether it is appropriate The results of the survey are presented Companys businesses and provides the toprepare financial statements on a going tothe Board.
basis for setting all detailed financial concern basis.
The Groups business budgets and strategic actions that are The Companys Annual General Meeting activities, together with factors that are subsequently used by the Board to provides all shareholders with the likelyto affect its future development monitorperformance.
opportunity to vote on the resolutions put andposition, are set out in the segmental toshareholders either electronically via the performance section on pages 27 to 42.
In undertaking its review of the IBP in Companys website or by post.
All resolutions The financial position of the Group, including 2014, the Board considered the prospects detailed in the Notice of Meeting are voted information on cash ow, can be found in of the Company over the one and five-year on by way of a poll so as to ensure that all the financial review section on pages 22 to periods covered by the process.
The votes are counted on the basis of one vote 26.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 50 one-year planning period has a greater for every share held.
In addition, the financial statements levelofcertainty and is, therefore, used to voting on all resolutions are published on include, amongst other things, notes on setdetailed budgetary targets at all levels theCompanys website.
finance costs page 113 and financial risk across the Group it is also used by the management, including treasury policies on Remuneration Committee to set targets interest rate, liquidity, currency and credit forthe annual incentive.
The five-year risk pages 150 and 151.
After making due periodprovides less certainty of outcome, enquiry, the directors have a reasonable but provides a robust planning tool against expectation that the Group has adequate which strategic decisions can be made.
resources to continue operational existence Onthe basis of this and other matters for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, considered and reviewed by the Board they continue to adopt the going concern duringthe year, the Board has reasonable basis in preparing the accounts.
expectations that the Company will be able EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Chief Executive has established C CH HIE IEF F E EXE XEC CU UT TIIVE five 1 the Executive Committee as the IIan an K Kiing ng executive forum in which the most senior Line and Functional Leaders come together to communicate, review and agree on issues and actions LINE LEADERS FUNCTIONAL LEADERS ofCompany-wide signi cance.
1 1 Jerry DeMuro Peter Lynas President and Chief Executive Group Finance Director Of cer of BAE Systems, Inc. Chief Operating Of cer of Group General Counsel BAE Systems, Inc. Group Managing Director, Group Business Development Programmes & Support Director Group Managing Director, Group Human Resources International Director Managing Director, Group Communications AppliedIntelligence Director 1.
