Governance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Members Sir Roger Carr Chairman Harriet Green Chris Grigg Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Carl Symon Ian Tyler Sir Richard Olver was chairman of the Committee prior to Sir Roger Carr succeeding him on 1 February 2014.
During the year, the membership of theCommittee was widened to comprise all the non-executive directors.
PaulAnderson was a member of the Committee up to 31 December 2014.
Governance The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2014 and held two meetings during the year.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilsthe is not deemed to be independent, the other members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors in accordance with theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Summary of responsibilities Reviewing the balance of skills, experience, diversity including gender, knowledge and independence, and recommending any changes to the Boardsmembership that it believes are necessary or desirable as a result ofsuch review Planning the orderly succession of new directors to the Board by reviewing onaregular basis the Companys senior management resource Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable candidates to ll anyvacancies for non-executive or executive directors Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees Nominating suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director Reviewing, and making recommendations to the Board on, the re-appointment ofnon-executive directors at the conclusion of their speci c terms of of ce, having given due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board Diversity The Board has adopted the following statement to act as a guide to future Board succession planning activity and to make aclear public statement of its support for greater diversity in the boardroom: The Board has an aspirational target of atleast 25% of the Board being womenby2015.
In seeking candidates for appointment tothe Board, the Nominations Committee will only engage the services of search consultants who are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
The Board will report progress against targets and actions taken in its AnnualReports.
There are currently two women on the Board 2014 two, 20% 2014 18% ofthetotal membership.
