STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholders, Business risk continues to be a much discussed topic in boardrooms and governance circles, placing continual emphasis on the importance of boards understanding the principal risks in their businesses and how they are being managed effectively.
Asreported on page 48, the Board as a whole has been reviewing risk with the Audit Committee supporting this activity and also considering the Groups risk NICK ROSE disclosures andreporting.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE During the year, Ian Tyler assumed Members chairmanship of the Corporate Responsibility Committee which provides a helpful crossover Nick Rose Chairman for us in terms of his wider understanding of Paula Rosput Reynolds nonfinancial and reputational risk.
I also sit on the Remuneration Committee where I Ian Tyler contribute to discussion on risk and reward.
Governance Internal control and risk management The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2014 and held seven meetings, Effective management of risks and plus one joint meeting with the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
All its opportunities is essential to the delivery of members are independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
the Groups strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value, protection Summary of responsibilities of its reputation and meeting the Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control requirement of good corporate governance.
policies, and procedures for the identi cation, assessment and reporting of risk As set out on page 48, the Board has overall Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the risk it is willing to take, and Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function ensuring that risks are managed effectively Approving an annual programme of internal audit work and reviewing the output across the Group.
At the Boards request, the Committee has reviewed the Companys Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Auditors principal risks in the light of new provisions Agreeing the scope of the Auditors annual audit programme and reviewing in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code theoutput covering the assessment ofprincipal risks, as well as theFinancial Reporting Councils Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review FRC associated Guidance on Risk Assessing the effectiveness of the audit process Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Whilst the Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the Auditors to 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code does supply non-audit services notapply to the Company until the next financial year, the Board has elected to The Committees full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed each year by report on certain of the risk management theBoard, are available on the Companys website.
and internal control principles in the new Attendance at meetings code onabest practice basis.
The Committee invites the following to its regular meetings: The way in which the Company manages risk Chairman: Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: and Director, Financial is set out on pages 48 and 49, with the Control and Reporting: principal risks facing the Group set out on pages 50 to 53.
Internal Audit Director, together with other senior members of the Internal Auditfunction, as appropriate: We have reviewed the ongoing effectiveness of the Companys risk management Other representatives from businesses and functions, as appropriate: and processes as part of our wider review of the The senior KPMG partner responsible for the BAE Systems audit, together effectiveness of internal controls.
withother senior audit partners, as appropriate.
Our review of internal controls has also encompassed a review of the reports relating The Committee holds private sessions with the Auditors and Internal Audit to the six-monthly Operational Assurance Director without management present, and the Committee Chairman meets Statements, which are submitted by each privately with both internal and external audit.
business or function as a mandated policy Reporting to the Board under the Group-wide Operational Framework, The Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key and controls reports and audit reports from issues discussed at the Committees meetings.
both internal and external auditors.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 61 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED comprehensive reviews undertaken at A key controls focus for the Committee is the Acquisitions: we considered the different levels in the Group that aim to controls environment surrounding Lifecycle acquisition accounting for acquisitions ensure consistency and overall balance: and Management LCM.
LCM is integral to the made in 2014 as set out in note 26 on successful execution of the Groups projects page 147, these being SilverSky, Saudi comprehensive review by the directors and programmes, and of particular Development and Training Company, and andthe senior team.
importance in the early identi cation of Signal Innovations Group, Inc.
External audit programme risk and the determination of Pensions: Recognising the scale of the The Companys Auditors are KPMG LLP.
The pro t recognition or provisioning.
We have Groups pension obligation, we reviewed Committee has been kept up-to-date with discussed the outputs of general financial the key assumptions supporting the the development of new EU-wide regulations and LCM controls testing, and any required valuation of the retirement bene t concerning audit tenure and the longevity of improvement actions, with management, obligation.
This included a comparison audit rm relationships with the companies and internal and external audit, with a view ofthe discount and in ation rates used they audit.
Under current EU transitional to ensuring the ongoing robustness of against externally derived data.
We arrangements, the Company would be programme execution and risk mitigation.
reviewed the methodology used to allocate required to rotate its auditor by June 2020. a proportion of the retirement bene t During the year, we met with local senior Continuity and consistency of audit quality obligation to equity accounted investments management of the US Support Solutions are important, however the Committee is and other participating employers, and business with regard to performance issues also mindful of the fact that KPMG LLP, and concluded thatthis was appropriate with identi ed on commercial shipbuilding their legacy predecessors, have been in reference to agreements between the contracts as well as operational challenges place as the Companys Auditors since 1981 Company and those companies.
We also identi ed on the Radford ammunition facility without re-tender and it remains our present considered the adequacy of disclosures maintenance contract.
We reviewed and intention to initiate an audit re-tendering inrespect of the sensitivity of the fide cit discussed with management the wider process not later than 2017 for the 2018 tochanges in these key assumptions.
control environment and risk management accounts prior to the rotation of the current processes surrounding these businesses, We noted that the Company and the audit engagement partner.
This is in line with including programme management controls trustees of the UK pension schemes have best practice provisions on audit rotation in and lessons learned, and the steps being agreed recovery plans where necessary the Code.
The Committee will keep this taken to address the issues.
to address the funding positions resulting re-tendering time frame under review and from the actuarial valuations carried out We have also received and discussed a willuse our regular reviews of auditor onthe Groups UK fide ned bene t schemes report from the Group General Counsel effectiveness to assess whether an earlier in 2014.
The Board as a whole has been oncompliance with the Companys Export date for a re-tender would be desirable.
There kept apprised of progress in this regard.
are no contractual obligations that would Taxation: Whilst tax policy is ultimately a restrict the selection of a different auditor.
Financial reporting matter for the Boards determination, we The Committee reviews all signi cant issues It is the Committees view that, given the reviewed the Groups tax strategy as set concerning the financial statements.
The complexity of the audit process at out on page 26.
On a twice-yearly basis, principal matters we considered concerning BAE Systems, a signi cant transition period we reviewed the Groups tax charge and the 2014 financial statements were: will be required.
Plans are being formulated tax provisions.
to address this and the Committees Terms Recognition of pro t and provisioning: Taking into account the revised FRC guidance of Reference have been amended to enable Wereviewed key estimates and judgements referred to above, the Committee agreed the it to oversee the tender process.
prior to publication of the financial parameters of, and reviewed the supporting statements.
Our review included the key The Committee maintains oversight over report for, the going concern statement and estimates and assumptions applied in theeffectiveness of the Companys Auditors the statement on the Boards assessment determining the financial status of the principally by way of an annual review of ofthe prospects of the Company on the one more signi cant programmes, including audit effectiveness at the conclusion of each and five-year periods used in the Integrated UScommercial shipbuilding contracts.
year-end audit and to supplement this with Business Plan.
an in-depth review of audit effectiveness on Goodwill: We considered the level of An intrinsic requirement of a groups financial a triennial basis.
We undertook our triennial goodwill held on the Groups balance sheet statements is for the report and accounts to review midway through 2014 which enabled in respect of a number of past major be fair, balanced and understandable.
The us to take a deeper look at the service transactions and whether, given the future co-ordination and review of the Group-wide provided by our Auditors.
This included the prospects of these businesses, the value input into the Annual Report is an extensive enhancements made by our lead engagement ofgoodwill held on the balance sheet exercise performed within an exacting time partner after he had completed one full remains appropriate.
The methodology frame which runs alongside the formal audit annual audit cycle, for example: forimpairment testing used by the Group process undertaken by the Auditors.
is set out in note 9 to the Group accounts audit resource skilling, including familiarity on page 118.
The process to ensure that the Committee, with our business processes and the and then the Board, are satis ed with the transfer of knowledge: Impairments: the Group has incurred a overall fairness, balance and clarity of the goodwill impairment of 161m, of which the planned rotation of lead partners to document has been underpinned by: 87m relates to performance issues in ensure continuity: and the US commercial shipbuilding business comprehensive guidance issued to all the enhanced reporting and communications.
and 74m relates to the proposed disposal contributors at operational level: of the Groups interest in BAE Systems KPMGs plans to support us through our a veri cation process dealing with the Land Systems South Africa Pty Limited.
future audit transition were outlined and factual content of the reports: discussed.
We also looked at fees from a value-for-money perspective.
BAE Systems 62 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance We have since assessed the output of the AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE NON-AUDIT SERVICES POLICY annual review undertaken at the close of the The Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the Auditors 2014 year-end audit.
This review was based to provide non-audit services which we review on an annual basis.
The Policy on a Group-wide evaluation at management prohibits certain activities from being undertaken by the Auditors such as and functional level, and covered areas book-keeping and work relating to the preparation of accounting records and suchas: financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: financial understanding of the Groups risks and information system design and implementation: internal auditing: and any work opportunities to facilitate the development where a mutuality of interest is created that could compromise the independence of an appropriate audit plan: of the Auditors.
The Policy also places restrictions on the employment of former employees of the Auditors.
the robustness of audit processes: Recognising that the Auditors are best placed to undertake certain work of objectivity: anon-audit nature, the Policy permits the provision of Audit-Related Services quality of communications: and and Permitted Non-Audit Services up to limits that are pre-approved by the ability to provide a seamless service Committee, with speci c approvals required beyond such limits by the across differing jurisdictions.
A copy of the policy is available on the Companys website.
We provided feedback to the Auditors from Details of fees payable to the Auditors are set out on page 111.
In 2014, the evaluation and will assess how the non-audit fees represented 30% of the audit fee.
The principal non-audit related actions have been incorporated into services provided by the Auditors related to tax compliance and advisory the 2015 audit plan when the latter has services, the interim review and equity advisory services.
OTHER KEY AREAS OF WORK UNDERTAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE IN 2014 On the basis of the reviews undertaken in 2014, and the review following the 2014 During the year, the Committee has: year-end audit, the Committee proposed to reviewed and challenged the external audit plan to gauge whether it was the Board that it recommend that shareholders appropriately focused: support the re-appointment of KPMG LLP at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
considered the accounting, financial control and audit issues reported by theAuditors that owed from the audit work: Internal Audit Internal Audit plays an important role in reviewed the con rmation and information received from KPMG on the assessing the effectiveness of internal arrangements that it has in place to safeguard its independence and controls by a programme of reviews based objectivity: on a continuing assessment of business reviewed and agreed the audit fee: riskacross the Group.
reviewed and discussed on a quarterly basis the nature and level of non-audit The annual internal audit programme is fees, and undertaken an annual review of the Non-Audit Services Policy which agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate we concluded was still appropriate see above : Responsibility committees to ensure that theover-arching internal audit programme reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys helpline procedures in respect includes the assessment of the ofthe reporting of possible accounting, financial control or other financial effectiveness of policies and processes irregularities, which form part of our wider Ethics Helpline procedures, and relating to key areas of ethical and concluded that the procedures continue to work effectively: reputational risk, as well as financial risk.
reviewed on a twice-yearly basis the procedures for the identi cation, The Committee considered the output from assessment and reporting of risk: and the 2014 annual internal audit programme of assurance work on a six-monthly basis.
considered corporate governance and accounting developments.
Over the past year, the Committee has bene ted from interactive sessions with therespective heads of Internal Audit for theUK businesses, the US businesses andthe international businesses.
This has complemented the regular reporting we receive from, and private meetings we have with, the Internal Audit Director.
As part of the annual evaluation of the Internal Audit function that the Committee oversees each year, we have discussed with the Internal Audit Director the level of skilling and resourcing required to deliver the 2015 internal audit programme.
Nick Rose Chairman of the Audit Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 63
