Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit committee report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2014 Audit Committee Report.
The Committee monitors and reports to the Board on all aspects of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management.
This report provides an overview of the work undertaken by the Committee over the past year.
During 2014, the most significant topics considered by the Committee included the Groups property valuations, taxation, risk and a number of corporate transactions.
Descriptions of the Committees work on these matters can be found on page 62.
Henry Staunton Chairman of the Audit Committee, 26 February 2015 Members: Ian Henderson Henry Staunton, Chairman of the Henry Staunton Chairman Andrew Strang Audit Committee The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, including the Director of Tax and Treasury, attended oversees the financial reporting process, monitors by invitation to present reports required for the the effectiveness of internal control, internal audit, Committee to discharge its responsibilities.
risk management and the statutory audit and monitors The Audit Committee met three times during 2014. the independence of the statutory auditors and the Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on provision of non-audit services.
The Committee also met privately during the and the date of this report the Committee comprises year with both the external and internal auditors.
three independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Henry Staunton, who is considered to have The Committee follows an annual programme, which significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
is agreed with the Committee Chairman, management and external auditors prior to each financial year, that The Committees meetings were also attended by the ensures it gives thorough consideration to matters of Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance particular importance to the Company, and additional Director, General Counsel, Company Secretary and matters are considered when appropriate.
The Financial Controller together with senior Companys 2014 agenda is shown in the table below, representatives of the external and internal auditors.
and the significant matters considered by the The valuers and members of senior management, Committee during the year are explained on page 62.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2014 Regular agenda items Other matters considered during the year Report from Financial Controller External and internal audit plans Preliminary Results and Annual External Auditor Report Internal controls Report including regulatory update Determining and recommending Internal Auditor Report from to the Board that the Annual BDO Report taken as a whole was fair, Property valuations balanced and understandable Tax update Interim Results Announcement Going concern and Interim Management Risk management Statements Control and governance The Groups accounting under procedures IFRS 11 Effectiveness and reappointment Accounting treatment of the CLSA of external and internal auditor and investment vehicle with TfL Related party transactions www.
com 61 Audit committee report continued SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE DURING 2014 Matter considered What the Committee did Valuations As in previous years, the independent external valuers presented the half-year and year-end valuations to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the methodology and component parts of the valuations, discussed the valuations with the external auditors and challenged the valuers on the assumptions used, which included how planning progress, increased cost certainty, residential sales values and the investment vehicle with TfL should be reected.
The Committee also obtained conrmation that all information requested by the valuers had been provided by management.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach taken by the valuers was appropriate.
Please refer to note 16 on pages 114 to 117 in the notes to the accounts.
Deferred tax The Director of Tax and Treasury presented regular reports to the Committee, explained the basis of the Groups tax position and updated the Committee on the on-going relationship with HMRC.
The Committee challenged the assumptions made in arriving at the tax position and discussed with the external auditor the assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the deferred tax position.
The Committee was satisfied that the policy was appropriate for the Group.
Please refer to note 29 on page 129 in the notes to the accounts.
significant The Committee received updates from the Financial Controller on significant and complex and complex transactions, including the accounting treatment of the investment vehicle with TfL and the transactions CLSA.
The Committee discussed the accounting treatments of each transaction with management and the external auditors and is satisfied that the appropriate approach has been taken.
Further information on each matter is available within the Financial Review.
Risk The Committee reviews the Groups risk register, the approach taken in its compilation and the proposed principal risk disclosures as explained on page 12 on an annual basis and ensures that they are consistent and appropriate.
The external auditors have direct access to the Audit External and internal auditors Committee Chairman should they wish to raise any a External auditors concerns outside formal committee meetings.
The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors, and is responsible for developing, b Internal auditors implementing and monitoring the Companys policy Capco has appointed BDO LLP as its internal auditor.
on external audit, and for monitoring the auditors During 2014, BDOs audit plan had a strategic focus and independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, included reviews of anti-bribery policies, Lillie Square professional and regulatory requirements.
The external project management, provision of information to auditors are not permitted to perform any work that valuers, service charges, IT strategic planning, contract they may subsequently need to audit or which might management, health and safety, lease incentives and either create a conict of interest or affect the auditors accounts payable.
The 2015 internal audit programme objectivity and independence.
Non-audit services are will include contract management, Lillie Square sales, normally limited to assignments that are closely related treasury, cash management, bank covenants, antito the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature bribery policies, payroll and health and safety.
The that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
Committee is satisfied that the internal auditor was independent and its services effective.
Capco tendered its external audit contract in 2010, and  LLP PwC were appointed as c Non-audit services Group auditors on an annual rolling contract.
After the The Company has adopted a policy to ensure that the transitional period, Capco will comply with the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors forthcoming regulatory requirement that the external does not compromise their independence or objectivity.
audit contract be tendered at least every 10 years.
The The policy requires prior approval by the Audit Committee monitored PwCs effectiveness and Committee Chairman for non-audit work with a cost performance during 2014, and considered a paper exceeding the lower of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the prepared by the Financial Controller which confirmed estimated annual level of the auditors fees at that time.
that in managements view PwC were providing a high Approval is only given following a full and thorough quality audit service and continued to deliver against assessment of the value case for using the auditor and all objectives considered at their appointment.
The the skills and experience the auditor would bring.
Committee is satisfied that the Group is receiving a Additionally, consideration must be given to the robust and challenging objective audit and has therefore preservation of auditor independence, and the external recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed in auditors are required to confirm that they are acting 2015.
In compliance with the requirement that the audit independently and must not audit their own work, partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits make management decisions for the Company, create is rotated every five years, a new audit partner was mutuality of interest, develop close personal assigned to the Group by PwC during 2014.
62 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements relationships with the Companys personnel or nd The Committee conducts an annual review of the themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and Committee is satisfied that the policy remains effective.
considers reports provided by the Financial Controller, external auditor and internal auditor.
The Committee is The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2014 were satisfied that the Groups internal controls are 442,000, of which 55,000 related to non-audit work.
These fees primarily relate to corporate transactions.
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors Specic controls relating to financial reporting and remain independent and objective.
consolidation processes include: Management structure staffed by appropriate Internal control and risk management personnel, with clear lines of responsibility and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk accountability management framework and system of internal control and the on-going review of their effectiveness.
A A comprehensive budgeting and review system.
The summary of the risk management framework is set out Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports on page 12.
The framework is designed to manage from the Finance Director which include forecasts and rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide performance against budget and financial covenants reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against The internal audit programme undertaken by BDO material misstatement or loss.
Led by the Chief Executive, the Group finance team The Company has established processes to identify, participates in the control self-assessment and policy evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the compliance elements of the risk management Group.
These controls accord with the Turnbull framework and sets formal requirements with guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on business unit finance functions which specify the the Combined Code and remained in place up to the reports and approvals required.
BDO regularly date of the approval of this Annual Report.
The reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and procedures are reviewed by the Board on an annual report its findings to the Audit Committee.
basis and will be subject to a detailed review in 2015 as the Company implements the provisions of the revised An annual risk management process is followed to UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2014. identify risks and review the effectiveness of mitigating controls.
All senior managers are responsible for The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the managing and monitoring risks in their area of Groups internal controls and risk, and reports to the responsibility and recording these in the Group risk Board on its work and conclusions.
The Group risk register is reviewed by the The key elements of the Groups day-to-day procedures Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
An and internal control framework are: assessment is made of the maximum risk exposure, taking into account parameters such as the risk Schedule of matters reserved for the Board category, the likelihood of the risk occurring, the Remit and terms of reference of Board Committees mitigating controls and the consequence of the failure Delegated authority limits of controls.
The risk register is reviewed twice a year and upon any material change to the business, with a Documentation of significant transactions full review being undertaken annually, at which point The Executive Directors are closely involved in it is also reviewed by the Audit Committee with new the day-to-day operations of the business and or emerging risks considered by the Committee as hold regular meetings with senior management appropriate.
The Groups principal risks and to review all aspects of the business, including risks uncertainties are set out on pages 12 to 15. and controls The Board receives regular updates on strategy and project developments at Board meetings and Board updates A whistleblowing procedure under which staff may raise matters of concern is in place.
One matter was raised during the year.
An investigation was conducted which concluded that no wrongdoing had occurred.
