Nomination committee report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2014 Nomination Committee Report.
Following the work on succession planning reported in 2013, the Committees main focus in 2014 was on the recruitment of new Non-executive Directors, and I am pleased that Gerry Murphy will be joining the Board on 1 March 2015, bringing valuable skills and experience to the Board.
A summary of the process followed in the recruitment of Gerry, and a description of the induction programme that will help ensure he quickly becomes familiar with Capcos business are included in this report.
As I explained in my letter on page 7, Andrew Huntley will be retiring from the Board at the Companys forthcoming AGM and will step down from the Remuneration Committee on 1 March 2015.
The Board is grateful for Andrews contribution to the Company since 2010.
Recognising the need to maintain the depth of property expertise on the Board, the Committee will continue its focus on Board composition in 2015.
Ian Durant, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Ian Durant Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 26 February 2015 Members: Ian Henderson Henry Staunton Ian Durant Chairman Andrew Huntley Andrew Strang Ian Hawksworth Demetra Pinsent The Nomination Committee has responsibility for General Counsel, following which the Committee made making recommendations on Board appointments and a formal recommendation to the Board that Gerry succession to the Board.
Murphy be appointed as a Non-executive Director of Capco, and as a member of the Nomination Committee, The members of the Committee as at 31 December 2014 Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
and the date of this report are listed above.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year, and Work on the recruitment of an additional Nonattendance at these meetings is shown in the table on executive Director, who will have specic property page 60. experience, will continue during the early part of 2015.
During 2014, The Zygos Partnership was engaged to assist Non-executive Director induction with the recruitment of Non-executive Directors.
The An induction programme is provided for each new Zygos Partnership provides no other services to the Group.
Non-executive Director, which is tailored depending on the Directors experience and expected role on the Board.
Non-executive Director recruitment A typical induction programme for a Capco Non-executive Capco operates a rigorous and transparent recruitment Director will include individual meetings with the process for new Directors.
Following the Board succession Chairman, Executive Directors, General Counsel, planning undertaken in 2013, a review of the skills, Company Secretary and members of senior management, experience, independence and knowledge of Board site visits to Capcos estates, and an introduction by the members, and in anticipation of Andrew Huntleys Chairman to the Companys brokers, advisers and lawyers.
retirement from the Board, the Committee agreed that The Director is also provided with copies of past Board two new Non-executive Directors should be recruited, of and Committee papers and minutes, and individual whom at least one should have specic property expertise.
briengs are arranged on topics such as Directors duties The Zygos Partnership was appointed to assist with the and responsibilities and the property market.
recruitment process and a broad brief was provided to Non-executive Director development ensure that the long-list of candidates reected The Chairman and the Committee together ensure that diversity of both gender and experience.
The Chairman Directors keep their skills and knowledge up to date to and Chief Executive met with each of the short-listed allow them to full their roles on the Board and Board candidates and provided regular updates to the Committees.
The General Counsel and Company Committee.
Preferred candidates then met with each Secretary update the Board on legal and corporate of the independent Non-executive Directors and the 64 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014
