Corporate governance report OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK A framework of oversight, controls and reporting supports Capcos performance.
The Company was fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2014 Ian Durant, Chairman Dear Shareholder, The Directors Remuneration Report on page 66 explains the new salaries approved by the I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2014 Corporate Remuneration Committee in light of Soumen Das and Governance Report.
Gary Yardleys new roles as Managing Directors of the As I reported in my statement on page 6, Capco has Company.
Having received shareholder approval of grown consistently since its establishment in 2010, our remuneration policy in 2014, this year we will be and has delivered market-leading returns for asking shareholders to vote only on the Annual shareholders.
In delivering this performance, the Report on Remuneration.
However, the Company has been supported by a framework of Remuneration Committee has considered whether oversight, controls and reporting which allows it the remuneration policy is appropriate for future to operate with a level of openness and exibility years and will be conducting a review of these appropriate for the business.
The Board sits at the head of this structure and is In 2014, as part of the Audit Committees review of the accountable for the Companys success, providing annual accounts, it paid particular attention to the strategic leadership, monitoring delivery of its Groups property valuations, as these are the most objectives and managing its risk.
In this report, and significant numbers within our financial statements.
the Committee reports which follow, we explain the The Committee met with each of the valuers and operation of the Board and Committees, the matters challenged the assumptions used in preparing the that have occupied the Board during 2014, and our valuations, concluding that the approach taken by priorities for 2015. the valuers is appropriate.
Throughout the year the Board considered the This report has been prepared under the version of Companys strategy, including in-depth presentations the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2012 and debate at its annual two-day strategy meeting.
We will report against the revised Under the management of the Audit Committee, the version of the Code published in September 2014 in Companys changing risk prole was monitored to our 2015 Annual Report.
ensure that risk and strategy were appropriately aligned.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board is confident that the current strategy is appropriate, and the monitoring and management of risk will continue to be a key item on the Boards agenda in 2015.
In 2014, the Nomination Committee focused on the recruitment of new Non-executive Directors to ensure Ian Durant that Capcos Board continues to be well-positioned for Chairman the future.
The Nomination Committee report 26 February 2015 explains the recruitment process followed to date, and work to recruit an additional Non-executive Director will continue in the early part of 2015.
56 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board independence STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE The Code requires that, excluding the Chairman, at UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE least half the Board should comprise Non-executive The Company was fully compliant with the Code Directors determined to be independent.
The Board has considered the independence of the Board composition Non-executive Directors, and the table below sets out As at 31 December 2014, the Board comprised the those Directors considered to be independent in Chairman, three Executive Directors and six Noncharacter and judgement.
Each of these Directors has executive Directors.
The table below summarises the also confirmed that there is no reason why they should membership of the Board and Committees.
In addition, not continue to be considered independent.
biographies of all the Directors including information about their skills and experience can be found on pages In considering Director independence, the Board 54 and 55. concluded that Directors tenure should be counted from the date of their first election by shareholders to the Capco Board.
BOARD INDEPENDENCE Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Independent Committee Committee Committee CR Committee Ian Durant Chairman n a Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive No Soumen Das No Gary Yardley No Graeme Gordon No Ian Henderson Yes Senior Independent Director Andrew Huntley Yes Demetra Pinsent Yes Henry Staunton Yes Andrew Strang Yes 56% The Board in 2014 During 2014, the Board received regular asset, significant investment decisions including property financial and performance updates from the acquisitions and the investment vehicle with TfL, Executive Directors, and reports from the Company Lillie Square launch, Venues business transition, Secretary, General Counsel, Director of HR & CR and Earls Court demolition and Kings Court Committee Chairmen.
Other matters considered by development the Board during the year are shown below: Property valuations, market and broker updates Progress on Earls Court Properties planning and Strategy land assembly Annual and interim results, interim management Risk governance statements and dividends AGM resolutions Finance matters including budgets, taxation, cash Outcome of Board evaluation, including Board and treasury management diversity 9.99 per cent share placing and US Private Committees terms of reference and schedule Placement of matters reserved for Board decision www.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE THE BOARD Strategy: Leadership: Risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Oversees financial reporting Sets remuneration policy Recommends Board Committee Monitors internal controls Sets Executive Director appointments Aligns corporate Oversees risk management remuneration and Succession planning responsibility initiatives Monitors internal and incentives Board evaluation with the corporate strategy external auditors Approves annual Oversees corporate performance objectives responsibility activities Further information: Audit Committee Report Directors Remuneration Nomination Committee CR Committee page 65 pages 61 to 63 Report pages 66 to 85 Page 64 and 65 Corporate Responsibility Risk Management Report Report pages 44 to 53 pages 12 to 15 The annual Board calendar includes a two-day strategy meeting AN EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE which is held away from head office.
At this meeting the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of receives detailed updates from external advisers and the business the Company, and for its leadership, strategy, values, standards, units, and is able to consider strategic issues in depth, and spend time control and management.
with members of senior management in a less formal environment.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and Board papers are typically circulated a week in advance of meetings formally documented.
The Chairman is responsible for the to ensure that Directors have sufficient time to consider their leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its content prior to the meeting.
If matters require approval at short agenda, and ensuring effective links between shareholders, the notice, written approval is sought from the Directors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for developing the Companys strategic direction, implementing The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-executive Directors policies and strategies decided by the Board and managing without the Executive Directors being present and maintains the business.
regular contact with both the Chief Executive and members of senior management.
The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of the agreed strategy As matters that require the Boards decision are often large, within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
complex and slow moving, informal update meetings are held between Board meetings which are designed to allow Board Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Executive members adequate time and preparation to explore, understand Directors, subject to formal delegated authority limits, however and challenge matters under consideration.
These are often certain matters have been reserved for Board approval.
These combined with site visits and provide an opportunity for the matters are reviewed annually and include: Board and Committee Non-executive Directors to meet senior management.
Three such composition, Company strategy, significant funding decisions updates were held during 2014, which included visits to the Lillie and corporate transactions, delegated authority limits and Square marketing suite and the Earls Court project room.
Through the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for BOARD COMMITTEES advising the Board on matters of corporate governance, and ensures The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination good information ows within the Board and its Committees and and Corporate Responsibility Committees to enable the Board between senior management and Non-executive Directors.
The to operate effectively and ensure a strong governance framework General Counsel attends Board and Audit Committee meetings.
A summary of the role of each Committee is All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company shown in the gure above, and the activity of each Committee Secretary and the General Counsel.
during 2014 is described on pages 61 to 85.
The Board meets formally throughout the year with main meetings Each Committee has written terms of reference which were timed around the financial calendar, and additional meetings reviewed by the Audit Committee and Board during the year.
convened to consider specic matters as required.
Attendance at The terms of reference can be viewed on the Companys website Board and Board Committee meetings held during 2014 is shown www.
Minutes of all Committee meetings in the table on page 60. are made available to all Directors.
The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
58 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2014 BOARD EVALUATION Chairman and Company Secretary considered the approach to be taken for the 2014 Board Evaluation The Nomination Committee considered the proposed approach and approved the use of Thinking Board, provided by Independent Audit A questionnaire was prepared and issued to Directors The responses were collated and provided to the Board for their discussion An action plan was agreed ACTIONS FOR 2014 PROGRESS ACTIONS FOR 2015 Continue to develop The Chairman and Nomination Committee continue to focus Ensure effective succession planning on Board succession and an indicative Non-executive Director induction of new succession plan has been agreed.
Non-executive Consider improvements Director s to Board agenda and The Company Secretary carried out a review of the agendas papers and Board papers provided to the Board.
A number of minor Consider whether amendments to the Board papers and agenda have been existing opportunities Review the remit of the implemented.
Although the Board materials are felt to be for informal Board Corporate Responsibility appropriate, this area will remain under review.
contact are sufficient Committee It was agreed that the remit of the Corporate Responsibility Review risk Committee remains broadly appropriate, however the number management and of meetings per year would be reduced.
reporting Corporate website ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD Our corporate website www.
com allows Board performance and evaluation visitors to access Company information, annual reports, results Recognising that Capcos Board must be effective, the Board presentations and webcasts.
The site also includes links to our conducts an annual evaluation of its own performance and that business unit websites and contact details for shareholder queries.
of its Committees and Directors.
Following an external evaluation in 2013, the 2014 Board Evaluation was managed by the Chairman Annual General Meeting and Company Secretary.
The evaluation built on matters identied Our AGM allows the Board to update our shareholders on Capcos during the 2013 external evaluation.
Directors were asked to progress, and provides an opportunity for shareholders to pose assess the effectiveness of the Board by providing a mixture of questions to the Directors, and meet senior executives.
The outcomes of the Shareholders are encouraged to vote on the resolutions put to the evaluation were considered by the Board and a Board action meeting, either in person at the meeting, online or by submitting a plan was agreed.
We publish the results of the votes on all resolutions on In addition, during the year the Senior Independent Director our website following the meeting.
conducted an appraisal of the Chairmans performance which Our 2015 AGM will be held on 1 May 2015.
The notice of Annual identied a number of matters for focus during 2015, and the General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least 20 working Chairman undertook appraisals of the other Directors performance.
Separate resolutions will be proposed on COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS each issue, and in accordance with the Code, each of the Directors, Our policy except for Andrew Huntley who is retiring at the AGM, will offer The Board is keen to ensure that our shareholders and potential themselves for election or re-election.
investors have a good understanding of Capcos business and The Chairman, Chairmen of the Board Committees and other performance, and that Directors are aware of any issues and Directors will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders and concerns which shareholders may have.
The Company answer any questions.
communicates with stakeholders in a number of ways: Should shareholders have any concerns that they are unable to successfully resolve following communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, they may raise them through the Senior Independent Director.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The following table shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during 2014: Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Ian Durant 7 7 2 2 4 4 Ian Hawksworth 7 7 2 2 4 4 Soumen Das 7 7 Gary Yardley 7 7 Ian Henderson 7 7 3 3 6 6 2 2 4 4 Graeme Gordon 6 7 Andrew Huntley 7 7 - 6 6 2 2 Demetra Pinsent 6 7 2 2 4 4 Henry Staunton 7 7 3 3 6 6 2 2 Andrew Strang 7 7 3 3 5 6 2 2 7362 4 The Board met seven times in 2014.
Each Board and Committee member attended all scheduled Board and Committee meetings with the exception of Graeme Gordon who was unable to attend one meeting due to a family bereavement, and Demetra Pinsent and Andrew Strang who were each unable to attend one meeting called at short notice.
On appointment, and each subsequent year, Non-executive Communications with shareholders Directors are required to confirm in writing that they have Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for sufficient time to devote to the Companys affairs.
In addition, the Board and an investor relations manager was appointed they are required to seek prior approval from the Chairman before during 2014.
The Company runs an extensive investor relations taking on any additional external commitments which may affect programme, and the Chief Executive and Finance Director hold their time available to devote to the Company, and the Board is meetings with institutional shareholders throughout the year, advised of any changes.
including results presentations, webcasts, road shows, one-to-one meetings and investor tours.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and if appropriate authorised by the Board on appointment.
The Companys major shareholders are encouraged to meet with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director to discuss any The Board is satisfied that all Non-executive Directors are matters they may wish to raise.
During 2014, the Chairman and contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee held a number of The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to meetings with shareholders, including discussion of proposed authorise potential conicts of a Directors interests that may arise.
amendments to the Executive Directors remuneration prior to The Board has adopted a procedure under which Directors must the AGM.
notify the Chairman of any potential conicts.
The Chairman then The Directors receive regular updates on the Companys major decides whether a conict exists and recommends its authorisation shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at each by the Board where appropriate.
A Director who had a conict of Board meeting.
The Non-executive Directors are invited to attend interest would not be counted in the quorum or entitled to vote the Companys results presentations.
when the Board considered the matter in which the Director had an interest.
Private shareholders may raise questions through the Company Secretarys office either by telephone or by email DTR DISCLOSURE feedback@capitalandcounties.
The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report, and the Audit CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Committee and Nomination Committee Reports, except for The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in his information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is contained in biography on page 55.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans the Directors Report on pages 86 and 87. additional commitments allow him to devote sufficient time to perform his duties as Chairman of Capco.
The Deputy Chairman is a Director of the Board of Capcos joint venture in respect of the Lillie Square development.
He receives no remuneration for this appointment.
The Board considered this appointment carefully before conrming its approval and remains satisfied that there is no conict of interest and that the appointment does not compromise his independence.
