CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Board has overall responsibility for corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance.
We are committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance which best fits the Group.
Your Board recognises that through an effective structure of systems and controls that defines authority and accountability throughout the Group, risks are appropriately managed and controlled whilst still promoting entrepreneurial behaviour and ensuring a successful business.
Corporate Governance is a key driver to the success of a listed company, but no two businesses are the same and no two boards are the same.
Whilst some might say that the Chairman of a listed company should not hold executive powers, and be independent upon appointment, as Executive Chairman and founding shareholder my interests are strongly aligned with all other stakeholders, which ensures that the Group succeeds in its business strategy and continues to look to the future with optimism.
In December this year the Group entered the FTSE 250 and therefore became a constituent of the FTSE 350.
We recognise that, as a result, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires us to enhance certain aspects of our governance structures.
Whilst in this report we apply the Codes provisions as a smaller listed company, during 2015 we will aim to address any required enhancements, such as additional independence on both the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and we will report on this progress next year.
We continue to monitor the Codes requirements regarding Board composition.
It has always been my belief that an effective Board should have members who have a detailed knowledge of the companys business and its relationships, so that there can be effective challenge and searching questions asked of the Executive Directors.
We recognise that the composition of our Board is not aligned to this requirement, but from a governance perspective, I consider this to be more beneficial than a Board comprising a number of independent non-executives who cannot possess such in-depth knowledge and whose competence as custodians of the shareholders interests is unproven.
I thank our long-term shareholders for sharing this view.
Sten Mortstedt Executive Chairman COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE The Company became a constituent of the FTSE 350 index on 22 December 2014.
The Code contains a number of additional The principal corporate governance rules which applied to the requirements applicable to FTSE 350 companies on which we are Company in the year under review were those set out in the UK required to report our compliance for the first time in our 2016 Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Annual Report.
However, in demonstrating its commitment to Council FRC in September 2012 the Code, the UK good corporate governance the Board has already adopted a Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules and the FCAs number of these requirements.
Save as identified and explained Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Board fully supports the below, the Board considers that throughout 2014 it complied with principles of good governance as set out in the Code, which is the Main Principles and the supporting principles as set out in publicly available on the FRCs website www.
THE BOARD STEN MORTSTEDT EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 3 other Executive Directors 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors 3 other Non-Executive Directors Ensuring company growth and shareholder value AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors Monitors the arrangements for corporate reporting, Develops the Companys policies on executive risk management and internal controls remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors Maintains a direct relationship with the external auditor EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Reviews the daily running of the Groups business ASSET MANAGEMENT HEALTH & SAFETY INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEES COMMITTEE Analyses financial investment opportunities Reviews the Groups property Reviews and moderates the Groups policy and reviews investment portfolios investments in each country and best practices for Health and Safety 40 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts LEADERSHIP In addition to attending Board meetings, senior management meet regularly to discuss management issues relating to the The Role of the Board Group both formally and informally.
The Board, which met five times during the year, is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and future Insurance development of the Group and the management of its resources.
The Company has arranged insurance cover for its Directors and The Boards primary objective is to create long-term shareholder officers, as set out in the Directors Report on page 38. value by identifying and assessing business opportunities as they arise and ensuring that associated risks are identified, monitored Division of Responsibilities and controlled.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters The responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, who is responsible specifically reserved to it for decision.
Matters reserved for Board for the overall strategy of the Group, the Executive Vice Chairman decisions include identifying strategic long-term objectives, who supports the Executive Chairman, and the Chief Executive approving the annual Group budget, and approving substantial Officer, who is responsible for implementing the strategy and property transactions and investment decisions.
The for the day-to-day running of the Group, are specifically divided.
implementation of Board decisions and the day-to-day operations A written statement of the division of these responsibilities of the Group are delegated to the Executive Directors.
between the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are reviewed and approved by the Strategy Board each year.
Strategy is determined after having taken due regard of relevant This year, following the departure of Mr Tice as Chief Executive economic factors, financial forecasts, and domestic and Officer, Henry Klotz undertook the role of Executive Vice Chairman international developments.
The views of shareholders are sought and Acting Chief Executive Officer.
Following the appointment of by the Executive Directors and are reported back to the Board.
Mr Widlund on 3 November 2014, these roles were again separated.
The Board is also appraised of the views of shareholders, analysts and potential investors by the Companys advisers.
The Company does not comply with provision A.
3.1 of the Code, as the Executive Chairman was not independent on appointment.
Performance Monitoring There have been no significant changes to the commitments of Group and divisional performance, budgets and quarterly the Executive Chairman during the year.
financial forecasts including net assets and cash flow projections are formally reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis.
In Non-Executive Directors addition the Executive Directors monitor cash flows weekly.
Mr Cooper is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and he is available to shareholders who do not wish to approach Conflicts of Interest the Executive Chairman, the Executive Vice Chairman or the The Companys Articles of Association contain procedures to deal Chief Executive Officer about a Company matter.
with Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board considers that A formal meeting of the Non-Executives took place during the these have operated effectively during the year.
year, without the Executive Directors or the Chairman present, and at which a thorough review of the performance of the Meetings Executive Chairman took place.
Several meetings of the The attendance of Directors at Board meetings during the year is Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman took place set out below: during the year to discuss, amongst other things, the performance of the Groups strategy, the performance of the other Executive Directors and the performance of the Board as a whole.
Sten Mortstedt 5 5 The Board was satisfied with the experience, expertise and Henry Klotz 5 5 1 performance of each board member: they continue to add Fredrik Widlund 1 1 significant value to the operation of the Company through their John Whiteley 5 5 combined knowledge and experience, and exercise objectivity in Malcolm Cooper 5 5 decision-making and proper control of the Companys business.
Joseph Crawley 4 5 2 Elizabeth Edwards 3 3 EFFECTIVENESS 3 Claes-Johan Geijer 2 3 Christopher Jarvis 5 5 Composition of the Board Thomas Lundqvist 5 5 On 14 February 2014, Mr Richard Tice became a Non-Executive Jennica Mortstedt 5 5 Director and Mr Klotz assumed the role of Executive Vice Chairman 3 Brigith Terry 2 3 and Acting Chief Executive Officer whilst a replacement was sought.
3 Thomas Thomson 3 3 4 Richard Tice 1 2 On 7 April 2014, Mr Tice resigned as a Non-Executive Director.
5 Lennart Sten 2 2 On 13 May 2014, Ms Elizabeth Edwards was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Ms Brigith Terry, Mr Thomas Thomson 1 Appointed on 3 November 2014 and Mr Claes-Johan Geijer resigned as Non-Executive Directors.
2 Appointed on 13 May 2014 On 1 August 2014, Mr Lennart Sten was appointed a 3 Resigned on 13 May 2014 4 Resigned on 7 April 2014 Non-Executive Director.
5 Appointed on 1 August 2014 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED On 3 November 2014, Mr Fredrik Widlund was appointed as Appointments to the Board Chief Executive Officer.
The Board considered the setting up of a separate Nomination On 5 January 2015, Mr Klotz informed the Company that he would Committee, as recommended by the Code, but due to the size and nature of the Company, decided that this function was better step down from his executive duties on 31 December 2015 and, at the request of the Board, would become a Non-Executive Director carried out by the Executive Chairman and other Directors, Non-Executive and Executive, as appropriate for each appointment.
Given that there is no formal Nomination Committee, the Company The biographies of the Directors can be found on pages 36 and 37. is not compliant with provision B.
The Board is assisted by the Audit and Remuneration During the year, as part of its annual performance review, the Committees, the Terms of Reference for which can be obtained Board considered that there was a need to strengthen its from the Company Secretary.
knowledge base and experience with Board members who had recent and relevant property experience.
A list of suitable Independence candidates known to the Board was made, followed by an Guidance to the Code recommends that for FTSE 350 companies interview process that included meetings with the senior at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent director and other independent directors.
No external consultancy or open adverts were used in the appointments of Elizabeth Edwards and Lennart Sten.
At the year end, the Board comprised four executive directors, four independent non-executive directors and three other For the appointment of the Groups new Chief Executive Officer, non-executive directors.
As the Company was not a constituent the Company used Spencer Stuart, an external search agency.
of the FTSE 350 as defined by the Code it was compliant with Spencer Stuart is not connected with the Group.
The Board considers that having a mix of Following its annual board evaluation, which took place in non-executive directors who are either independent as defined November, and having had regard to stakeholder feedback, the by the Code, or have an in-depth knowledge of the Company, Board reviewed its balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and provides better oversight and governance than having concluded that following the recent appointments, the composition predominantly independent non-executive directors.
of the Board had the necessary balance the Group required.
The Board has determined that, under the Code Guidance, Elizabeth Edwards, Lennart Sten, Malcolm Cooper and Diversity Christopher Jarvis were independent in character and judgement The Board reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and that there were no relationships or circumstances which on the Board regularly.
Its policy with regard to diversity is such that could materially affect or interfere with the exercise of their it will continue to make changes to its composition irrespective of independent judgement.
2.3, the gender or any other form of discrimination and to appoint the Board undertook a rigorous review as to whether it considered best candidate to the post.
It, therefore, considers that setting Malcolm Cooper to be independent, having served on the Board measurable objectives based on diversity would not be in the for more than six years.
Based on Mr Coopers current full time best interests of the Group.
role with National Grid plc, the amount of time dedicated to his role as a Non-Executive Director and his contributions to the BOARD GENDER DIVERSITY Board in discussions generally, the Board were satisfied that Mr Cooper maintained the necessary levels of independence in Female addition to the Codes independence criteria.
18% The Board further determined that, under the Code Guidance, three Non-Executive Directors, Joseph Crawley, Thomas Lundqvist, and Jennica Mortstedt, were not independent: Miss Mortstedt is the niece of the Executive Chairman: Mr Lundqvist is the Vice Chairman Male of the Sten Mortstedt Family and Charity Trust and has served on 82% the Board for more than nine years: and Mr Crawley has a close family tie with the Executive Chairman by way of marriage.
Board Evaluation DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE During the year, the Board undertook its annual performance Non-Executive evaluation survey led by the Senior Independent Director, with Non-Independent Executive assistance from the Company Secretary.
The evaluation was 4 3 based on a questionnaire which addressed three key areas: membership of the Board, Board performance and Board operation.
The questionnaire enabled the Directors to score Non-Executive performance in each of these areas and also provided an Independent opportunity to raise any other issues.
The confidential responses 4 were compiled into a non-attributable report by the Senior Independent Director and provided to the Executive Chairman.
Based on the results, the Directors considered that following the appointments made during the year, the Board and its committees were working effectively and that there was a good mix of personalities, skills and experience.
They were pleased with the way in which the Executive Chairman led the Board and 42 had concluded critical strategic decisions.
Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts The key themes arising from this years evaluation, which will The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive form an action plan for 2015, are: to review succession planning Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which provides in respect of employees below Board level: to have a dedicated for their removal in certain circumstances, including under s168 meeting to discuss future strategy: and to continue to hold Companies Act 2006.
Their letters of appointment also set out meetings with only the Non-Executive Directors and the what is expected of them and the time expected for them to meet Executive Chairman present.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite them to In addition, following the comprehensive performance review serve for an additional period, subject to a rigorous review.
of the Executive Chairman that took place at the Non-Executive The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can Directors meeting, the Senior Independent Director fed the be obtained on request to the Company Secretary and will be results back to the Executive Chairman.
At that meeting, available for inspection 15 minutes before, and during, the AGM.
discussion included succession planning for Non-Executive Directors, which specifically included Mr Cooper, who has served ACCOUNTABILITY on the Board for more than six years.
The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and The Board notes provision B.
6.2 of the Code, requiring an understandable assessment of the Companys position and externally facilitated evaluation for FTSE 350 companies every prospects, which are explained in this Annual Report.
This was not undertaken in 2014, as the Company was not a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index throughout the year The Audit Committee prior to the reporting year.
However the Board notes the Codes The Board has established an Audit Committee to monitor the requirement and will consider when the external evaluation formal and transparent arrangements for its corporate reporting should take place.
and risk management and internal control principles, and for Information, Support and Development maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys Auditor.
Full details of the Committees work are given in the Audit Board members are sent Board packs in advance of each Board Committee's Report on pages 53 and 54. and Committee meeting, and senior executives attend Board meetings to present and discuss their areas of speciality.
In making Risk Management and Internal Control commercial assessments the Directors review detailed plans including financial viability reports which, among other things, The Company has internal control and risk management systems detail the return on capital, return on cash and the likely impact in place for the Companys financial reporting process and the on the income statement, cash flows and gearing.
preparation of the group accounts that it considers appropriate for the size, diversity and complexity of the Groups operations.
Directors are able to obtain independent professional advice at the It is reviewed and recommended by the Audit Committee in the Companys expense and have access to the services of the Company first instance, and then by the Board as a whole on an annual basis.
They are given appropriate training and assistance on appointment to the Board and later, if and when required.
It is the Companys aim to manage risk and to control its business and financial affairs economically, efficiently and effectively so as The Company offers all Directors the opportunity to update their to be able to exploit profitable business opportunities in a disciplined skills and knowledge, and familiarity with the Company in order way, avoid or mitigate risks that can cause loss, reputational to fulfil their role on the Board.
During the year, members of the damage or business failure, and enhance resilience to external Board have attended seminars on, inter alia, executive events.
The Board acknowledges that the Directors are responsible remuneration and the responsibilities of directors.
In addition, for the Groups system of internal control and risk management meetings with senior managers within the Company have been and has established procedures which are designed to provide arranged to further familiarise Non-Executive Directors with the reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As part of every new Board members induction, These procedures have operated for the entire financial year and Fredrik Widlund, Elizabeth Edwards and Lennart Sten met with up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Head of Property in each of the UK, France, Germany and Sweden so as to understand the portfolio.
Board members also The Directors recognise that such a system can only provide a attended site visits to various properties.
reasonable and not absolute assurance that there has been no material misstatement or loss.
The Board regularly reviews the Re-election management structure, HR policies and reward systems so as to ensure that management is aligned to the Groups values and Under the Articles of Association, which can be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders, the Board has the power supports the risk management and internal control systems.
to appoint directors and, where notice is given signed by all the The key elements of the process by which the system of internal other Directors, to remove a director from office.
control and risk management is monitored are set out below.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Internal Controls Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
7.1 of the Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies The Company has an established framework for internal financial to seek re-election by shareholders annually.
The Company has controls, which is regularly reviewed and monitored by the adopted this provision and, accordingly, Mr Fredrik Widlund, executive management and the Audit Committee, who update the Ms Elizabeth Edwards and Mr Lennart Sten will be standing for Board on its effectiveness.
election and all other Directors will be seeking re-election at the The Board is responsible for the Companys overall strategy, for forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Their details are contained approving budgets and major investment decisions, and for in the Directors Report on pages 36 and 37. determining the financial structure of the Group.
43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS duties regarding the Groups financial reports and provides a The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and direct link between the Board and the Companys Auditor through private investors.
The Boards primary contact with institutional regular meetings.
The Board has requested that the Audit shareholders is through the Chief Executive Officer and the Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and Chief Financial Officer, along with the Head of Group Property, Accounts and advises it on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, who have regular meetings with institutional shareholders.
balanced and understandable and provides the information They also undertake analyst presentations following the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Companys half-yearly and annual financial results.
They are performance, business model and strategy.
supported by a financial relations adviser and two corporate brokers, all of whom are in regular contact with institutional and There is an established organisational structure which has clearly defined lines of reporting and responsibility.
The Group has in retail shareholders, and with analysts.
A report of feedback from each institutional investor meeting is prepared by the broker place control processes in relation to all aspects of its financial dealings, such as the authorisation of banking transactions, which organised it, and a report of unattributed feedback from analysts on analyst presentations is prepared by the financial capital expenditure and treasury investment decisions.
All such reports and coverage of the Company The Group has a comprehensive system for budgeting and by analysts are circulated to the Board.
Consequently, all Directors planning whereby quarterly and annual budgets are prepared, develop an understanding of the views of institutional monitored and reported to the Board at each meeting.
rolling cash flows are updated and distributed to the Executive Directors on a weekly basis to ensure the Group has sufficient Analyst presentations following the announcement of half yearly cash resources for the short and medium term.
and annual financial results are webcast and available on the Companys website.
Set out on pages 3 to 35 is the Strategic Report, describing the Groups operations and the strategy which it employs to maximise The Group issues its annual financial report to each of its shareholders.
In accordance with the UK company disclosure returns and minimise risks.
regulations the Group does not distribute its half-yearly financial Risks report to shareholders but makes it available on its website.
Copies are available on request.
In line with the most recent audit committee guidance, the risks which the Group faces are reviewed and monitored in All financial reports and press releases are also included on the Board and executive meetings on an ongoing basis throughout Groups website at www.
All shareholders have at least 20 working days notice of the Each business area maintains a process to ensure that key risks Annual General Meeting at which all Directors who are available are identified, evaluated, managed and reviewed appropriately.
to attend are introduced and are available for questions.
All This process is also applied at Board level to major business shareholders are welcome to attend the Companys Annual decisions such as property acquisitions and disposals, and General Meeting and to arrange individual meetings by significant strategy implementations.
The views received at such meetings are fed back property activity portfolio update is circulated to the Board which to the Board.
identifies key business risks, developments and opportunities.
Proxy Voting Additional risk management processes, which include health and safety and environmental risk management, are employed The proxy forms for the Annual General Meeting and General within the businesses and updates are reported to the Board at Meetings which were held in 2014 included a vote withheld box.
Details of the proxies lodged for these meetings were announced to the London Stock Exchange and are on the Companys website Whilst there were no areas of weakness or failings identified by the Audit Committee and reported to the Board during their at www.
Shareholders may also choose to register their vote by electronic proxy on the Companys website.
review of the Groups risk management and internal controls, management have set up a rolling programme to review and test At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Company will comply the principal areas of internal control risks.
The results are with the Listing Rules in respect of the voting requirements for reported to the Audit Committee and reviewed by the Board the election and re-election of independent Directors where a during the year.
As identified and discussed by the Board, the Companys key MAJOR INTERESTS IN THE COMPANYS SHARES risks, the areas which they impact and how they are mitigated are described on pages 8 and 9.
Other than Mr Mortstedts 50.54% interest referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 51, as at 4 March 2015 REMUNERATION the Company has been notified of the following interests above 3% in the Companys issued share capital: The Remuneration Committee No.
of shares % The Board has established a Remuneration Committee which develops the Companys policies on executive remuneration and Bengt Mortstedt 2,937,011 6.84% sets the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors.
F&C Asset Management plc 2,124,509 4.94% FIL Limited 2,238,712 5.21% Full details of the Committees work are given in the Remuneration Schroder Investment Report on pages 46 to 52.
Management Limited 1,796,075 4.18% 44 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts There are no shareholders who carry special rights with regard state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed rights.
The Company knows of no agreements between holders and explained in the financial statements: and of securities which would result in restrictions on the transfer prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis of securities or on voting rights.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT In preparing the group financial statements, International Victoria Investment Holdings Limited VIHL, the investment Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: vehicle for the Sten Mortstedt Family and Charity Trust, currently properly select and apply accounting policies: holds 50.54% of the Companys shares in issue, and is therefore classed as a controlling shareholder under the Listing Rules.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and A relationship agreement between the VIHL and the Company understandable information: was entered into to ensure that all transactions and relationships between the two parties are conducted at arms length and on provide additional disclosures when compliance with the normal commercial terms.
The relationship agreement shall only specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable be terminated on the event that VIHL ceases to be a controlling users to understand the impact of particular transactions, shareholder, or if the Company ceases to be admitted to listing other events and conditions on the entity's financial position on the premium segment of the Official List.
and financial performance: and Throughout the period of review, the Company has complied make an assessment of the company's ability to continue with the mandatory independence provisions and procurement as a going concern.
obligations in the relationship agreement, and as far as the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Company is aware, VIHL has also complied.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure A change of control of the Company may cause a number of that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act agreements to which the Company or its active subsidiaries is 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the party, such as commercial trading contracts, banking company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention arrangements, property leases and licence agreements, to take and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In the context of the Group as a whole, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity only the banking arrangements are considered to be significant.
of the corporate and financial information included on the There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may employment that occur because of a change of control.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
JOINT VENTURE AND ASSOCIATES Responsibility statement This Corporate Governance report applies to the Company and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: its subsidiaries.
It does not include joint ventures or associates.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report loss of the company and the undertakings included in the and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law consolidation taken as a whole: and regulations.
the strategic report includes a fair review of the development Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and performance of the business and the position of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors company and the undertakings included in the consolidation are required to prepare the group financial statements in taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards risks and uncertainties that they face: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting information necessary for shareholders to assess the Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors companys performance, business model and strategy.
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they This statement of responsibilities was approved by the Board on give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and 4 March 2015 of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
By order of the Board In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply David Fuller BA FCIS them consistently: Company Secretary make judgments and accounting estimates that are 4 March 2015 reasonable and prudent: 45
