Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Meetings attended Malcolm Cooper Chairman 4 4 Christopher Jarvis 4 4 The role of the Audit Committee is: to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and review significant financial reporting judgements to review and monitor the Groups internal controls and risk management systems to recommend to the Board that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable to oversee the relationship with the Companys auditor and monitor its independence, objectivity and effectiveness during the audit process, including monitoring any recommendations from the Companys auditor to make recommendations to the Board for shareholder approval on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Companys auditor to review the potential need for an internal audit function to review the Groups policy on whistleblowing to review the policy on the supply of non-audit services by the Companys auditor to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities Both members of the Committee are considered to be independent under the Code Guidance.
For the purposes of the Code, Mr Cooper and Mr Jarvis are regarded as having recent and relevant accounting and financial experience.
The Chief Financial Officer, certain senior management and the Companys auditor are normally invited to attend the meetings.
At each meeting there is a standing agenda item facilitating the opportunity for the Companys auditor to meet without management present.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
REPORT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE During the year the Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and the Half-Yearly Financial Report, focusing on key areas of judgement and complexity, critical accounting policies and any changes required to them.
It also discussed the changes to the Listing Rules which no longer required the mandatory publication of Interim Management Statements, concluding that it was in shareholders best interests to be kept up to date with Company news in between statutory announcements.
Given the completion of two of the Groups developments during 2014, the Committee paid particular attention to the valuations and financial assumptions relating to Cliffords Inn and Spring Mews.
The Committee also challenged management on the judgements made in relation to the valuation of Vauxhall Square, which it continues to monitor closely given its potential value to the Group.
Taking into account the various factors affecting the valuations of these developments, such as comparable residential valuations and assumptions on future London office rental values, the Committee concluded that they were appropriately valued and recommended the same to the Board.
The Committee paid particular attention to reviewing the Groups principal business risks, and ensuring that they had been adequately identified and mitigated.
One such risk was the Groups funding strategy, which was benefiting from historically low interest rates across all the markets in which the Group operates.
Following discussion, it was agreed that management were able adequately to mitigate the associated risk of interest rate rises through ensuring that an appropriate level of existing floating-rate debt was hedged with interest rate swaps or caps.
The Committee also held meetings with the Groups UK valuers, DTZ and Knight Frank, to which it invited the whole Board, to discuss and question the methodology used for the bi-annual valuations of the Groups UK properties and developments.
It received written presentations from Colliers International and Jones Lang LaSalle in respect of Germany and France, respectively, with follow up meetings in August and November.
The Committee were satisfied with the explanations in relation to the portfolio and its associated key risks, such as specific local market updates and vacancy levels, which management were addressing.
Further, the Committee considered the appropriateness of the valuation and the accounting treatment of the Groups bond and equity investments.
Towards the end of the year, the Committee undertook its annual review of its Terms of Reference so as to ensure it continued to comply with best practice, and reviewed its performance to ensure that it continued to operate as an effective Audit Committee and had discharged its responsibilities in accordance with its remit.
For the size and complexity of the Group the composition of the Committee was considered appropriate and in compliance with the Code.
Following the Groups inclusion as a constituent of the FTSE 250, the Committee will aim to enhance its composition with an additional member during 2015.
The Committee concluded that there was sufficient information in the Annual Report and Accounts for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was able to recommend to the Board that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable.
There were no accounting or control issues arising during the year, which we confirmed to the Board.
53 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDIT The Committee reviewed the external audit strategy and the findings of the Companys auditor from its review of the Half-Yearly Financial Report and its audit of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It reviewed the letters of representation at both the full year and half year and recommended the same to the Board for signature.
Additionally, the Committee met with the Companys auditor prior to the final sign-off meeting for these Annual Report and Accounts in order to receive his report on the external audit process.
I am pleased to report that at both the half year and the full year, after reviewing the significant risks identified by the Companys auditor and how management had mitigated them, there was no issue of a material nature which needed to be addressed or brought to the Boards attention.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the full year and half year external audit processes, the performance of the Companys auditor and, separately, sought the views of senior management.
The Committee concluded that the external audit strategy had been met, and that key accounting and auditing judgments had been identified by the Companys auditor.
The Committees conclusions were that Deloitte LLP had undertaken the external audit in line with the audit plan, and it was agreed to recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP be asked to continue as the Companys auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
The external audit was last put out to tender in 2007 when the current auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed.
The lead audit partner was changed by rotation in 2012.
There are no contractual obligations to restrict the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee notes the wider EU regulatory developments in external audit tendering, and the current consultation from the Department of Innovation and Skills and the Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee will formulate its policy based on their recommendations.
INTERNAL AUDIT Following its annual review, the Committee recommended to the Board not to establish an internal audit function, due to the existence of current controls and review systems in place and as the Company was neither of sufficient size nor complexity to warrant it.
This line of reasoning was consistent with other property companies of a similar size.
The Committee will continue to review this assumption annually following the Groups inclusion in the FTSE 250.
In order to seek assurance that internal controls are rigorously tested, management have set up a rolling programme to review and test the principal areas of risk, with the results reported to the Committee and subsequently reviewed by the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee noted the new UK Corporate Governance Code, published in September 2014, and discussed the impact the revisions would have on risk monitoring, reviewing and reporting for the forthcoming financial year in which it will apply.
The Committee recommended to the Board the way in which the new provisions should be applied to the Group.
POLICY ON NON-AUDIT SERVICES The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditor, so as to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee noted the recent publication of the EC Audit Regulation which includes new restrictions on the provision of non-audit services, which it is monitoring closely.
These rules come into force from June 2016 and the Committee will amend its policy following clarification from the Department for Business Innovation & Skills.
The current policy, which is based on the most recent Guidance on Audit Committees and reviewed annually, categorises non-audit services as either: excluded: or permitted, without approval from the Committee, but subject to approval by the Chief Financial Officer of up to 10% of the annual aggregate Group audit fee: or permitted with approval from the Committee.
The only non-audit service provided by the Companys auditor during the year was tax advice of 14,300.
All such fees were approved by the Chief Financial Officer in accordance with the policy.
On behalf of the Board Malcolm Cooper Chairman Audit Committee 4 March 2015 54
