CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement Introduction This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issuedbythe Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 have been applied to the affairs oftheCompany.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Compliance with the 2012 Code The directors have considered the contents and requirements of the Code and note the following instances, and periods, of non-compliance: The appointment of Grenville Turner as chairman on 1 September 2014, having held the position of chief executive officer immediately prior to that date, results in non-compliance with provisions A.
3.1 of the Code that a chief executive should not go on to be chairman of the same company.
Additional counterbalances have been identified in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 46.
In addition, he does notmeet the independence criteria set out in B.
1.1 of the Code on appointment.
Following the resignation of Robert Davies on 7 November 2013, the Board did not consist of a majority of independent non-executive directors excluding the chairman in accordance with provision B.
However, compliance with this provision was achieved on 9 June 2014, following the appointment of two independent non-executive directors.
The corporate governance statement includes pages 44 to 53.
Additional information in respect of the operation, and terms of reference, ofthe Remuneration Committee is included within the separate Directors remuneration report.
The role of the Board and division of responsibilities The Board provides leadership to the Group and is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
It sets the strategy andoversees its implementation, ensuring that acceptable risks are taken and appropriate governance structures and controls are in place.
Itensures that the right people and resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, review management performance and deliver long term value to shareholders and other stakeholders.
In pursuit of these leadership objectives, specific actions taken by the Board were as follows: Responsibility Specific actions during period Setting and reviewing the Annual strategy meeting Overseeing and approving the Receiving reports from senior Groups long term objectives dedicated to reviewing Groups Groups agreement with Hermes management on trading, and commercial strategy strategic direction and agreeing for the Residential Property Fund.
business performance, regular Board updates.
financing, acquisitions and keyoperational projects.
Risk management and Discussing risk management Discussion and challenge to the Reviewing and approving the accountability controls and internal control processes Group risk register and related Groups regulatory results and reviewing key risk areas, heat map recording concluded announcements and including recommendations during the year.
Governance structures Approving the new chairmans Discussion of Board composition Approving and implementation appointment and deputy and approving the appointment of corporate governance chairmans role.
of a new chief executive officer arrangements and policies.
and three new non-executive directors.
Oversight of operational Approving the annual budget, Receiving update reports on Receiving reports on the IT aspects of the Group the business plan for the Group and discussing the Groups transformation project and and material acquisition or human resources, marketing monitoring implementation capital expenditure projects.
The Board retains control of key decisions and has put in place a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
The roles ofchairman and chief executive are separated, clearly defined and approved by the Board.
A copy of matters reserved for Board approval and the division of responsibilities between the roles of the chairman and the chief executive is available to view on the corporate governance section of the Companys website at: www.
These documents are also accompanied by the terms of reference for each of the three Board committees listed below.
The Board delegates matters to the three Board committees, identified below, in line with their terms of reference and the formal schedule ofmatters reserved for Board approval.
Further information on the work of these committees during the year can be found in each of their separate reports following this corporate governance introduction.
The Board delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved bythe Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the executive directors.
The directors attendance at the scheduled Board meetings and Board committee meetings is shown in the table opposite.
Attendance isexpressed as the number of meetings that each director attended out of the number they were eligible to attend as Chairmen or Committee members ieexcluding attendance where this was by invitation only.
44 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Director Date of appointment meetings meetings meetings meetings Grenville Turner 19 February 2013 9 9 Alison Platt 1 September 2014 2 2 Jim Clarke 28 December 2012 9 9 Caleb Kramer 19 February 2013 6 9 David Watson 2 September 2013 9 9 4 4 2 2 4 4 Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 9 9 4 4 2 2 4 4 Richard Adam 9 June 2014 4 4 2 2 2 2 Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 4 4 2 2 2 2 Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014 3 4 1 2 Sandra Turner 18 March 2013: resigned 9 June 2014 5 5 2 2 1 2 2 2 Caleb Kramer was engaged in various overseas activities which meant that his attendance was intermittent.
Rupert Gavin was also absent from one Board and one Remuneration Committee meeting due to commitments made prior to his appointment as a director.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover for its directors and officers.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of its directors during the year: these provisions remain in force at the date of this report.
Independence The Code notes that the Board should identify in the annual report each non-executive director that it considers to be independent.
Each of the non-executive directors is considered to be independent, with the exception of: Caleb Kramer as he holds the position of managing director at Oaktree Capital Management UK LLP, a substantial shareholder of the Company: and Grenville Turner as he was an employee of the Company in his role as chief executive officer and became chairman on 1 September 2014.
In addition, heretains an interest in the performance of the Company through unvested long term incentive plans detailed in the remuneration report on page 63.
The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board tobe independent.
Since, excluding the chairman, there are five of a possible six non-executive directors determined to be independent andtwo executive directors, the Board now complies with recommendation B.
Similarly, the composition of the three Board Committees complies in all respects with the independence provisions of the Code.
Shareholder engagement As chairman, I ensure that views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole and offer non-executive directors the opportunity to attend discussions with major shareholders.
David Watson, as senior independent director, attends a significant number of these meetings to ensure that he develops a balanced understanding of any issues arising and can provide context back to the Board Committees as he sits on all three Committees.
We actively seek channels through which to engage with investors and during 2014 the Company undertook a wide variety of investor relations activities.
Institutional shareholders represent the largest group of shareholders and much of the activity is focused on this group.
The chief executive officer and chief financial officer host or attend the majority of the events held, whilst key senior executives also participate in meetings and activities with institutional shareholders.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime means of communication with the majority of our shareholders is via the interim and annual reports, supplemented by interim management statements, which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Groups activities and results.
General presentations are given to both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the interim and annual results.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the AGM, where all directors will be in attendance.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are invited to do so by writing to the company secretary at the registered address given on page 123.
