CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of directors Our team As at the date of signing the directors report, the following people were directors of the Company: 1.
Alison Platt Chairman Deputy chairman and senior independent Chief executive officer non-executive director Grenville joined the Group in August 2006 and Alison joined the Group in September 2014. became Group chief executive in January David joined the Group in September 2013.
Alison was previously managing director 2007.
Taking the Group private in 2007 He was appointed non-executive director atBupa plc, responsible for international hethen led the Groups return to the public ofthe Company and chairman of the development markets, and has held a range market in 2013 and became non-executive Companys Audit and Risk Committee of senior posts including chief operating chairman on 1 September 2014. on2September 2013.
David is currently a officer of UKprivate hospitals business non-executive director of Charles Taylor plc, atBupa and anumber of key positions Grenville has almost 40 years experience in Kames Capital plc, Hermes Fund Managers inBritish Airways.
retail banking and the property sector.
Past Limited and T R Property Investment Trust plc.
co. uk, In June 2012 Alison joined the board of He chairs the audit committees of Charles St Jamess Place Plc, Sainsburys Bank Plc Cable & Wireless Communications plc as a Taylor plc, Hermes Fund Managers Limited and Realogy, the largest realtor in the US.
non-executive director and between 2009 and T R Property Investment Trust plc.
Inaddition to being non-executive chairman and 2013 Alison was chair of Opportunity Hehas extensive industry and accounting of Countrywide plc, Grenville is currently Now, which seeks to accelerate change experience.
David has had a distinguished Chairman ofKnightsbridge Student Housing Ltd forwomen in the workplace.
Alison was career as a finance director.
Most recently he and Bellpenny Ltd.
He is also a non-executive alsoa non-executive director of the Foreign was finance director for the general insurance director of the Zoopla Property Group and & Commonwealth Office FCO between division of Aviva plc and prior to that he held DCLG.
Grenville is a qualified chartered 2005 and 2010, and in the 2011 New Year various other senior financial roles atAviva as banker and holds an MBA from Cranfield Honours Alison was appointed a CMG for well as Prudential Group and NatWest Markets.
her services to the Board of the FCO.
David is a chartered accountant and a graduate of CityUniversity Business School.
Jim Clarke A N R Chief financial officer Jim joined the Group in November 2007.
Key to committee membership: Hewas previously finance director and company secretary of JD Wetherspoon A Audit and Risk Committee andhas previously worked for David Lloyd Leisure a division of Whitbread plc and N Nomination Committee HPBulmer Holdings plc.
Jim is agraduate ofStirling University and hequalified R Remuneration Committee asachartered accountant in1984.
Chairman 1 2 3 4 42 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chairman 1 Executive directors 2 Independent non-executive directors 5 Non-independent non-executive director 1 5.
Rupert Gavin Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Cathy joined the Group in July 2013 and Richard was appointed as a non-executive Rupert has a range of board positions, at was appointed non-executive director of the director of the Company on 9 June 2014 both chairman and director level in a variety Company and chairman of the Companys and became chairman of the Audit and Risk of businesses, with a strong consumer bias.
Most recently he was chief executive officer She is currently a vice president of UNICEF of Odeon and UCI Cinemas Group between A chartered accountant qualifying with KPMG UK and a member ofthe board of the Royal 2005 and 2014.
He was previously at the in 1982, Richard has nearly 30 years of College of Art andthe Institute of Financial BBC where he was chairman and chief experience as finance director of private and Services.
Shehas extensive industry experience executive of BBC Worldwide and also at listed businesses.
Since April 2007 Richard working with Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young BTwhere he was managing director of has been group finance director of Carillion plc andWatson Wyatt as a compensation and theconsumer division, prior to which he and before that of Associated British Ports benefits consultant in her early career.
She wasatthe Dixons Stores Group latterly Holdings plc.
He was previously non-executive subsequently joined Barclays PLC, where asdeputymanaging director.
director and chairman of the audit committee shewas a member of the group executive ofSSL International plc.
committee with responsibility for human N R resources, corporate affairs, strategy and He is a graduate of the University of Reading.
During her time with Barclays she was also director of investor A N R 9.
Caleb Kramer relations for four years and had extensive Non-executive director experience in remuneration in her many roles.
Most recently, she was chief administrative 7.
Jane Lighting Caleb joined the Group in May 2009 and officer of Lloyds Banking Group PLC.
She is Independent non-executive director was appointed as a director.
He is a managing agraduate of the University of Lancaster.
director and portfolio manager Europe Jane has spent her career in broadcast media, atOaktree Capital Management UK LLP.
A N R including chief executive officer ofChannel 5 Priorto joining Oaktree in 2000, Caleb Broadcasting for five years until2008.
She was co-founded Seneca Capital Partners LLC, formerly a non-executive director of Paddy aprivate equity investment firm.
From 1994 Power plc and is currently non-executive to 1996, Caleb was employed by Archon director and senior independent director Capital Partners, an investment firm.
to1994, Caleb was an associate in mergers and acquisitions at Dillon Read and Co. Inc. A N R and an analyst at Merrill Lynch and Co. Inc. Caleb received a BA degree in economics from the University ofVirginia.
