CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committees terms of reference are available at: www.
co. uk investorrelations corporate-governance Dear shareholder I became chairman of the Audit and Risk In light of the industry developments in Committee with effect from 1 August 2014, respect of historic professional indemnity Professional indemnity having been a member since joining the provision increases, and our own detailed Countrywide Board as an independent year-end review of claims data resulting provisions will remain a non-executive director on 9 June 2014. ina15.2 million exceptional charge, the Iwould like to thank my predecessor, Committee has reviewed and provided regular topic for discussion, DavidWatson, for his assured leadership of robust challenge to the documentation and as they have been at each the Committee and continued membership.
initial conclusions reached by management.
The second half of 2014 was always seen committee meeting this The Committees role is to assist the asa key period in assessing this issue as the Boardinfulfilling its financial oversight year, to ensure that six year primary statutory limitation period responsibilities by: came to an end.
It is disappointing to see appropriate independent assessing the integrity of the Groups that high levels of claims continue to be an financial reporting and satisfying itself that issue across the industry, with an unexpected oversight and governance any significant financial judgements made level of claims brought about under common are evidenced by management are sound: law outside of the primary statutory limitation period rather than under contract law.
evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups However, changes to the claim rate, claim risk management and internal control liability rate and average loss per claim will processes: and remain a regular topic for discussion, as they scrutinising the activities, performance, have been at each Committee meeting this independence and effectiveness of year, to ensure that appropriate independent theauditor.
oversight and governance are evidenced.
This report describes how the Committee I will be available at the Annual General discharged its responsibilities over the last Meeting to answer any questions about year, setting out the key tasks and major thework of the Committee.
The assurance framework required by the Committee is provided by complementary contributions from management reports, internal and external audit reports, and from risk Richard Adam management and compliance reports.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee However, as chairman of the Committee 26 February 2015 Ihave also held meetings with both the Companys internal and external auditors, thechief financial officer CFO and senior members of the Group finance department, and other senior executives in which key issues relevant to the Committees work were discussed.
48 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Committees work How the Audit and Risk Committee works The Committee has an annual work plan, Committee composition developed from its terms of reference, with The membership of the Committee, together standing items that the Committee considers with appointment date, is set out below: After careful review and at each meeting in addition to any matters Audit and Risk Committee that arise during the year.
In addition to its consideration of all relevant Member member since annual performance evaluation, the Committee information, the Committee Richard Adam carried out a review of its terms of reference chairman 9 June 2014 to align with best practice.
was satisfied that, taken as Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 The agendas for the four scheduled meetings a whole, the annual report Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 of the Committee during 2014 were organised David Watson 2 September 2013 around the Companys reporting schedule.
is fair, balanced and The chairman of the Committee reports at each The composition of the Committee changed understandable and has subsequent Board meeting on the business of during the period with Sandra Turner resigning the Committee meeting and recommendations affirmed that view to the from the Board and Committee inJune 2014, made by the Committee.
The main matters and the simultaneous appointment of fullBoard that the Committee considered during the Richard Adam and Jane Lighting, but year are described below.
remained in full compliance withthe Code recommendation of aminimum ofthree The Committee assesses whether suitable Financial reporting and significant independent non-executive directors accounting policies have been adopted and judgements throughout theperiod.
whether management have made appropriate Financial reporting estimates and judgements.
The Committee also The Code requires at least one member The Board and the Committee have reviewed considered the Groups existing tax strategy ofthe Committee to have recent and relevant this annual report, the half year financial and concluded that managements current financial experience.
Two members of the statements, as well as the going concern approach to tax remained appropriate.
Committee Richard Adam and David Watson basis of preparation of the Groups consolidated are considered by the Board to have financial statements at these points, in particular At the request of the Board, the Committee competence in accounting and recent and the underlying assumptions and sensitivities.
also considered whether the 2014 annual relevant financial experience.
Both have report was fair, balanced and understandable We considered the presentation of the financial professional qualifications with the Institute and whether it provided the necessary statements and, in particular, the compliance of Chartered Accountants of England and information for the shareholders to assess with financial reporting and disclosure Wales.
The biography of each member of Countrywides performance, business model requirements associated with premium theCommittee is set out on pages 42 to 43. and strategy.
The Committee took into account listing.
In respect of each of these matters, its own knowledge of the Group, its strategy Attendance by members at the meetings the Committee reviewed papers presented and performance in the year: internal isshown on page 45.
Meetings were held by management and discussed critical verification of the factual content within the atkey times within the reporting and audit judgements and estimates inherent within document: comprehensive reviews undertaken calendar and were also attended by the the conclusions, providing challenge where at different levels in the Group to ensure chieffinancial officer, Group financial controller, necessary.
The Committee also reviewed the consistency and overall balance: and detailed Group finance manager, the company secretary, reporting from the external auditor, review by senior management and the external the head of internal audit and the Companys incorporating accounting and reporting auditors.
After careful review and consideration external auditor,  LLP matters, internal control findings and their of all relevant information, the Committee was PwC.
In addition, internal risk management management representation letter to ensure satisfied that, taken as a whole, the annual and compliance representatives and other that all these matters had been considered report is fair, balanced and understandable advisors to the Company were invited to attend.
and consistent conclusions had been reached.
and has affirmed that view to the full Board.
The Committee held regular private sessions withboth the external and internal auditors which were not attended by management.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Financial reporting and significant judgements continued Financial reporting continued Accounting judgements and estimates In the year under review, the Committee considered the following significant matters, which include an element of judgement, in relation tothefinancial statements: Matter Action the Committee has taken Professional indemnity provisions We reviewed the methodology and resultant professional indemnity provision prepared bymanagement and regularly compared the emerging pattern of settled claims to assess whether the methodology and assumptions were appropriate.
Where management have updated their financial models to reflect the latest inputs and trends, and to accommodate aged claims where there is limited prior experience on which tostatistically model outcome, as well as taking into account available information in respect of all open claims we have provided robust challenge to any underlying assumptions adopted in respect of claim rates, claim liability rates, average loss per claim and provisions on discrete cases ofsignificance based on current legal advice.
The Committee concluded that the methodology and assumptions adopted were reasonable, but note that evaluating these potential liabilities is highly judgemental and in smaller populations of claims, including older more complex cases, estimates can be significantly affected by the outcome, good or bad, of a limited number of claims.
Accordingly additional sensitivity disclosures have been provided in note 3.
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles We reviewed discounted cash flows and sensitivities prepared by management, discussing with anindefinite life assumptions adopted, and concurred that a prudent approach underpinned the conclusion ofno impairment being required.
Acquisition accounting We reviewed a management paper summarising the acquisitions undertaken during the year.
These all followed existing models and methodologies in relation to the valuation of intangible assets.
We were satisfied with the fair value accounting approach and intangible asset valuations proposed by management.
Accounting treatment of transactions Due to the potential complexities of the transactions, we reviewed a management paper in relationto Zoopla Property Group plc summarising the transactions undertaken during the year in relation to Zoopla shares held and the impact of the: sub-division of existing equity shares held at the point of the restructuring ofZooplaProperty Group Limited: warrants arising on the signing of a new agreement in March 2014 and crystallising additional shares at the point of the Zoopla IPO: treatment of the deferred income arising on the agreement, spread to release as income over the underlying three year period 201618 of the revised contract: purchase of additional shares under a members subscription agreement on the Zoopla IPO: disposal of a proportion of the shares at the point of the Zoopla IPO: and application of 31 December share price to the valuation of remaining shares held at the year end.
We were satisfied that the transactions, as well as the straightforward mark-to-market at the year end, were calculated and disclosed and appropriately.
Share-based payments We reviewed the methodology and conclusion presented by management in relation tothevarious share-based payment arrangements, notably in relation to the IPO plan vestingin March 2015.
The assumptions made were reviewed and agreed as reasonable.
For more detail in respect of share-based incentives and valuation methodologies see note 27.
50 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The accounting treatment of all significant In addition, the Committee and the Board issues and judgements was subject to reviewed the effectiveness of the risk reviewby the external auditors.
For further management and internal control systems, information on the critical accounting estimates including the financial, operational and During 2015 an initial and assumptions refer to the notes of the compliance controls.
This was primarily consolidated financial statements on page 86. achieved by: sixmonth agreement For a discussion of the areas of particular audit reviewing the reporting from the Group wassigned with Deloitte focus by the auditors, refer topage 73 of the Risk and Compliance Committee arising independent auditors report.
tooutsource internal from its update to the Groups risk register through liaison with each of the divisions, auditcapability Risk management and internal control update to the control risk assessments and The Board is responsible for the Groups the resultant residual risk map reporting to system of internal control, including its risk ensure that this aligned with the Boards reviewing the recommendations arising management procedures, and for reviewing risk appetite: from an initial high level review of the risk its effectiveness.
This has been designed and governance structure undertaken by reviewing control findings from the internal tomanage, rather than eliminate, the risk of  PwC during audit team, which reports to the chief any failure to achieve its strategic objectives.
theperiod: financial officer but has direct access to It can provide reasonable, rather than absolute, the chief executive and chairman of the assurance against material misstatement or reviewing annually the Groups system of Committee.
Internal audit carries out audits loss.
The Boards approach to risk management internal control.
This includes a summary of to assess the adequacy and effectiveness is supported by an oversight structure, as key risks and associated controls and areport of internal controls over the key risks faced detailed on page 19, which includes from the internal audit team on its work: by the business and reports its findings theCommittee.
monitoring the risks and associated tomanagement and the Committee.
The Board has an ongoing process to identify, controls over the financial reporting Theinternal audit programme of work is evaluate and manage the significant risks faced processes, including the process by presented to and approved by the Committee by the Group.
This was in place throughout whichthe Groups financial statements on an annual basis, and updated on a rolling the year and up to the date of the approval areprepared for publication: basis as required.
This process is regularly reviewing reports from the external auditor Where the programme of internal audit reviewed by the Board and accords with the on any issues identified during the course work is revised, pre-approval from the Turnbull guidance.
Management is responsible of its work, including a report on control Committee is required and consideration for the identification and evaluation of significant weaknesses identified: and of amendments to resourcing requirements risks applicable to its areas of the business is also made.
During January 2015 an together with the design, operation and a process of internal control sign-off is used initial six month agreement was signed monitoring of suitable controls.
These risks in the Group where directors are required to with Deloitte to outsource internal audit are assessed on a continual basis at divisional detail completion of the Group risk register capability under the guidance of the head Board meetings and updated accordingly and associated control documentation of internal audit and his team.
Following inthe Group risk register.
and certify that controls are in operation completion of this initial contract period, toensure that the control environment further consideration will be given to isappropriate.
They confirm annually potential extensions of the agreement: inwriting that risk management process and appropriate controls are in place reviewing the recommendations to andoperating effectively.
improve the system of internal control arising from the internal audit team.
The implementation of these recommendations is followed up and reported on at each quarterly Committee meeting: ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued introduced to the Committee and attended Risk management and internal control year-end clearance meetings within the Group, continued culminating in the February Committee meeting, No material failings or weaknesses were to allow a smooth transition.
identified during the review of the risk management and internal control system.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and A copy of our non-audit services are, subject to controls by management that The Committee has also reviewed have been agreed by the Committee to monitor policy is available on our website at: whistle-blowing arrangements allowing and maintain the objectivity and independence employees toraise concerns on a www.
co. uk investorof the external auditor.
A copy of the non-audit confidential basis andensures that relations corporate-governance services policy is available on our website at investigation of any whistle-blowing www.
co. uk investor-relations incidentsis undertaken.
corporate-governance, providing details of prohibited, audit-related and permitted services.
Oversight of the external audit The policy requires approval by the Chief The Committees oversight of the external Financial Officer of any work undertaken by auditor includes reviewing and approving the PwC and mandates Committee approval, annual plan.
In reviewing the plan, the prior to the commencement of work, of all Committee discuss and challenge the non-audit assignments with an individual auditors assessment of materiality and feeabove a fide minimis threshold of 50,000, financial reporting risk areas most likely or going beyond an aggregate annual spend togive rise to material error.
PwC reported to the Board and confirmed its The total of non-audit fees and audit fees paid independence in accordance with ethical to PwC during the year is set out in the table standards and that it had maintained below.
In order to maintain its independence appropriate internal safeguards to ensure and objectivity, PwC undertook its standard their independence and objectivity.
PwC independence procedures in relation to these operates a five year rotation policy for audit engagements.
The Committee received a partners for a listed entity and, as a result of report at each meeting from management this being his final year of signing the audit and PwC regarding the extent of non-audit report, the current engagement partner will services performed.
His successor has been 2014 2013 Matter 000 000 Audit-related assurance services 44 44 IPO fees including 54,000 of subsequent remuneration advice 1,054 Tax advisory services 60 48 Due diligence on acquisition targets 97 152 Review of risk and governance structure 19 Access to PwC inform 1 Non-audit fees 221 1,254 Audit fees excluding audit-related assurance services 556 501 52 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Amounts paid to PwC were reported to and The Code requires that the external audit the Committee has influenced the considered by the Committee.
Non-audit contract should be put out to tender at least appointment of the successor to the current fees incurred in 2014 represent 40% of the every ten years.
As PwC was appointed as audit engagement partner and only it has recurring base audit fee, falling below the auditor to the Company in 2007, and has not concluded on his progression in the role, 70% cap set by the European Union and been subject to a re-tender for the contract permitting this without recourse to will remain subject to scrutiny and approval since then, the Committee intend to put the acompetitive tender process: by the Committee.
contract out to tender during 2017.
However, only the Committee will initiate and we may put the audit out to tender at any We also adopted a formal framework to conduct supervise the planned competitive tender time before a regulatory retendering date if our review of the effectiveness of the external process and make recommendations to we were to conclude that this is in the Groups audit process and audit quality and applied the Board in respect of any subsequent interest.
There are no contractual obligations this to the completion of the 2014 Group auditor appointments: and restricting our choice of external auditor and audit cycle.
The framework takes the form no auditor liability agreement has been the Committee authorises, prior to the ofan annual questionnaire covering all key entered into.
commencement of work, the provision of aspects of the audit, including the effectiveness non-audit services by the incumbent auditor of contribution of divisional and Group The Competition and Markets Authority CMA subject to a pre-approval of permitted management to the audit process, and is issued The Statutory Audit Services for Large non-audit services with an individual fee completed by each member of the Committee Companies Market Investigation Mandatory above a fide minimis threshold of 50,000, and by the chief financial officer.
Feedback Use of Competitive Tender Processes and or going beyond an aggregate annual isalso sought from other members of the Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 spend of 100,000 full details of the Group finance team, divisional management the Order in September 2014.
Whilst this policy are available on our website at and the head of internal audit.
Based on first applies to financial years beginning on www.
co. uk investor-relations responses tothe questionnaires, management or after 1 January 2015 we have chosen to corporate-governance.
produces a report for detailed consideration make a statement of compliance with the by the Committee.
The feedback from this provisions of the Order in the current year process is considered by the Committee and asfollows: is provided to the auditor and to management, the last competitive tender process for an with action plans developed accordingly and auditor appointment was undertaken in 2007 reviewed by the Committee.
In addition, the and resulted in the appointment of PwC: Committee consider the findings of the Audit Quality Review teams report into the conduct the Company proposes that it will complete of PwC audits generally.
the next competitive tender process during 2017, which is deemed to be in the best In its evaluation of the external audit function, interest of the shareholders in order to the Committee concluded that it was satisfied allow full consideration of and preparation with the work of PwC and that PwC continued for the tender process: to be effective, objective and independent.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended the statutory audit fee and the scope of to the Board the reappointment of PwC and the statutory audit have been approved for this to be put forward to shareholders between the Audit and Risk Committee atthe 2015 AGM.
At the Annual General and the auditor: Meeting in 2014, 97.24% of votes cast by shareholders were in favour of reappointing PwC as auditor.
