CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Nomination Committee The Committees terms of reference are available at: www.
co. uk investorrelations corporate-governance The composition of the Committee changed that the appointment to chairman would Dear shareholder during the period with Sandra Turner resigning be for a limited period of up to two years, I became chairman of the Nomination from the Board and Committee in June 2014, to provide a period of continuity in the Committee with effect from 1 September 2014 and the appointment of Richard Adam, business prior to appointing an and would like to thank my predecessor, Rupert Gavin and Jane Lighting in the same independent chairman: David Watson, for his leadership of the month.
We thus remained in full compliance that David Watson be appointed to a newly Committee during a period of significant with the Code recommendation that a created position of deputy chairman which transformation of the Board.
majorityof members should be independent would provide enhanced independent non-executive directors throughout the period.
2014 saw the Committee focus on Board oversight: and Board Committee composition and Attendance by members at the meetings that as a result there would be a strong succession planning, resulting in a number isshown on page 45. preference for the new chief executive ofnew appointments to the Board and The Committees work officer to be an external appointment: and changes toBoard Committee membership.
The Committee held two formal meetings These included my own move to chairman: that the Committee acknowledged that during 2014 which were held to debate the the appointment of a new chief executive there would need to be considerable Companys appointment of a new chairman, officer: and the appointment of three effortand focus by the Board to ensure a new Chief Executive and also new independent non-executive directors including that thedocumented separation of roles non-executive directors.
The main matters a new Chair for the Audit and Risk Committee.
and responsibilities between chairman and that the Committee considered during the chief executive officer was upheld andthat year are described below.
Role and responsibilities collectively they enabled both appointments The Committee is responsible for ensuring to have the space and confidence to fulfil Board and Committee composition that the composition of the Board and its their responsibilities.
As described above, the Board went through Committees is appropriate and enables them In light of the discussion held which concluded a period of significant refreshment during to function effectively.
This requires evaluation my own appointment, no use was made by 2014, with four new directors having joined of the balance of skills, experience, knowledge the Nomination Committee of an external and one having resigned.
and diversity and the resultant identification search agency or open advertising for the of any gaps, either in the short, medium or The first matter considered by the Committee appointment of chairman.
longer term, and recommendations to address in their meeting in January 2014 was around these.
Succession planning for key Board In light of my decision to step down as my ongoing involvement in the business.
positions forms part of our wider remit and chiefexecutive officer and take on the role Obviously at this point I was not a member as such we have insight into the Groups of non-executive chairman, the Committee ofthe Committee and so was not a party Leadership and Development Programme.
considered the skills and experience desired tothese discussions or the decision in my successor and prepared a candidate makingprocess.
We are also responsible for agreeing the profile.
Following anumber of interviews and annual Board effectiveness review process Given the Code provision that a chief presentations byshort-listed suppliers, the and monitoring any actions arising.
executive officer should not go on to be Committee appointed an independent chairman of the same company and should search and selection agency, Lygon Group, Committee composition be independent on appointment A.
3.1 and to assist inthe search for suitable candidates.
The membership of the Committee, together B.
1.1 respectively, the Board consulted at LygonGroup had no prior connection with with appointment date, is set out below: length with major shareholders in advance the Group.
A list of candidates, both internal ofthe proposed appointment.
Alengthy Nomination Committee andexternal to the Group, was presented Member member since Board debate of pros and cons was also tothe non-executive directors and me for recorded, along with consideration of skills discussion.
Following interview by Lygon, Grenville Turner and experience against the job specification thiswas reduced to a short-list of candidates chairman 1 September 2014 and assessment of available time and required who were initially interviewed by members of Caleb Kramer 19 February 2013 commitment.
The final consensus reached the Committee David Watson and CathyTurner Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 was that the best option to protect and and also interviewed by me asthe incumbent David Watson 2 September 2013 enhance shareholder value, and to allow us chief executive officer.
Afinal shorter list Richard Adam 9 June 2014 to consider a wider talent pool in the search ofpreferred candidates were then taken Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014 for a new chief executive officer was to offer through an independent capability assessment Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 the position to me.
This was agreed with the performed by SpencerStuart, an executive following conditions: search consulting firm, using proprietary tools.
46 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Based upon a combination of the feedback Following appointment to the Board, all directors from all of the interviewers, the skills and received a tailored induction programme, capability assessments and references providing an opportunity to gain an taken, the Committee, with me in attendance, understanding of the Group business and 2014 saw the Committee met to agree the preferred candidate organisation, operations and governance andproposed remuneration terms.
The environment, allowing them maximise focus on Board and Board remuneration terms were formulated using theircontributions to the Board as quickly Committee composition independent data provided to the Committee aspossible.
Key stages of the induction by New Bridge Street advisors to the programme are: provision of documents in and succession planning, Remuneration Committee.
relation to the Board, strategy, performance resulting in a number ofnew and corporate governance: meetings with The Committee appointed an independent the executive directors to gain an overview search and selection agency, Egon Zehnder, appointments to the Board of the business, current trading and key to assist in the identification of suitable commercial issues: meetings with other non-executive candidates to join the directors and senior executives to discuss Boardand achieve full Code compliance.
The Board intends to undertake an externally commercial issues and projects: and site visits, Inmaking recommendations to the Board, facilitated exercise in the final quarter of 2015 as required, to key locations to gain an the Committee specifically considered the at which time the current Board memberships understanding of the business and operations.
existing non-executive experience and skill will have been in operation for a full year sets and the desirable experience in suitable All directors are also offered subsequent andwill thus provide a well grounded candidates.
In particular the Committee sought training to suit their needs and continuous baseofexperience to enable an effective candidates with commercial, retail and professional development requirements.
discussion of opportunities to improve Board technology skills.
The Committee chairman Alldirectors also have access to the advice effectiveness.
This will also comply with the led the selection process interviewing a and services of the company secretary in Code recommendation for triennial external selection of short-listed candidates and addition to access to independent professional evaluation.
Further details of the process and proposing a narrower list of possible appointees advice at the Companys expense where they recommendations of the externally facilitated to be interviewed by the remainder of the judge it necessary to discharge their duties evaluation will be provided in our 2015 Board.
Following these interviews, the as directors.
chairman made recommendations to the Following the internal performance evaluation Board based upon the consensus expressed Board effectiveness conducted during the period, I am pleased by all interviewers.
A formal internal evaluation of the performance toconfirm the effective performance of of the Board, its Committees, the directors The Company believes that diversity of eachnon-executive director and the time and the chairman has been conducted in experience and approach, including gender commitment of each non-executive director.
Giventhe changes diversity, amongst Board members is of great I am therefore confident that each of them in the Board composition during the year, it importance and it is the Companys policy to would be in a position to discharge their was determined that this would be undertaken give careful consideration to issues of Board duties to the Company in the coming year and, by an internal questionnaire process.
For balance and diversity when making new accordingly, as detailed in the notice of the theBoard itself, this process was led by the appointments.
The search for candidates and AGM, all directors will stand for re-election.
chairman and included separate discussions any subsequent appointments are, therefore, with each director as required to follow up made purely on merit regardless of gender, on specific feedback and is supported on an race, religion, age or disability.
Given our ongoing basis by thepractice of the chairman commitment to appointing the best people meeting with the non-executive directors, and ensuring that all employees have an equal Grenville Turner without the executive directors being present, chance of developing their careers within the Chair of the Nomination Committee following each Board meeting.
In respect of Group, we do not think it is appropriate to set 26 February 2015 evaluation of the performance of the chairman, targets for Board appointments.
As gender this was conducted by the deputy chairman diversity remains atopic of significant by discussion with each of the non-executive discussion, we note that three of the nine directors without the chairman or executive members of our Board are female.
In addition directors being present.
For the Board to Board diversity, we believe in promoting Committees the process was collated diversity at all levels of the organisation and bythecompany secretary and responses further details of our workforce diversity are and actions were discussed and agreed set out on page 38. attheir respective committees.
