Directors Report continued Nomination Committee Report Letter from the Chairman of the Report of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Committee membership The membership of the Nomination Committee and the attendance at each of its meetings is set out in Table 3.
JohnAllan became a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 August 2014 following his appointment to the Board on the same date.
The Chairman chairs the meetings of the Nomination Committee, except when the business of the meeting relates to the appointment of his own successor.
In accordance with Code provision B.
2.1. the majority of members the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent by the Company.
Table 3 Membership and attendance at Nomination Dear Shareholder Committee meetings I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Number of Member Role meetings attended Committee.
The key areas of focus during the year were: 1 Bob Lawson Chairman 2 4 Board changes 4 4 Richard Akers Member Rod MacEachrane stepped down from his position as a Non- 4 4 Tessa Bamford Member Executive Director at the 2013 AGM having served nearly eight 4 4 Nina Bibby Member years on the Board.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the Mark Clare Member 4 4 skills set and experience of each of the Non-Executive Directors 2 2 2 Rod MacEachrane Member and was satisfied that the composition of the Board remained Mark Rolfe Member 4 4 satisfactory and balanced given the diverse range ofskills, 1 Bob Lawson excused himself from all meetings or parts thereof where his own succession experience and background of the Non-Executive Directors to was being considered.
drive the Groups strategy forward.
Accordingly, theNomination 2 Rod MacEachrane ceased to be a member of the Nomination Committee on 13 November Committee concluded that a replacement for Rod was not 2013 when he stepped down from his position as a Non-Executive Director.
necessary at this point in time.
The Nomination Committee Note: will continue to monitor the composition of the Board and 4 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
recommend appointments both Executive and Non-Executive 4 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
in the future as and when the needs of the business so require.
Chairman succession Composition of Directors Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committee, led by the Senior Independent as at 30 June 2014 Tenure as at 30 June 2014 Director, Mark Rolfe, facilitated the search for a suitable candidate to replace me as the Chairman of the Board.
As is required by the Code, I did not attend any meetings or parts of meetings which related to my succession.
The Nomination Committee engaged the services of the Zygos Partnership Zygos to assist in this recruitment process and details can be found on pages 53 and 54 of this report.
Performance evaluation The Nomination Committee undertook an internal review Non-Executive Chairman 1 0-3 years 2 of its effectiveness this year, given that an external review Executive Directors 3 4-6 years 3 was undertaken by Independent Board Evaluation last year.
Non-Executive Directors 4 During the year the Nomination Committee progressed the recommendations arising from the previous evaluation and details of this and the outcomes of this years review can be found on page 53.
The following pages provide further detail on the work undertaken by the Nomination Committee throughout the year.
Bob Lawson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 9 September 2014 52 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Key responsibilities and activities undertaken during the financial year The Nomination Committee met on four occasions to fulfill its key responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website www.
The activities undertaken by the Nomination Committee during the year are summarised below: Key responsibilities Activities undertaken during the year Succession planning reviewed the succession plans in place for each of the Directors including the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director and senior management to ensure that they remain satisfactory to meet the needs of the business.
Board balance, reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board, having regard to the Boards balance of skills, experience, independence independence, and knowledge, particularly following Rod MacEachranes retirement at the 2013 AGM and the announcement of the Chairmans composition and intention to step down at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM: effectiveness considered and reviewed the other commitments of each of the Directors excluding the Chairman and confirmed their continued independence: and implemented the recommendations arising from the performance evaluation review undertaken by Mrs Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation last year and undertook an internal performance evaluation of itself and its members.
The overall results were positive, particularly in respect of the process followed to recruit a new Chairman, the skills within the Nomination Committee and the resources available to it to fulfil its work plan.
The key areas of focus were to monitor and refresh succession plans in line with the requirements of the business.
Appointment and appointed Zygos to assist with the recruitment of a new Chairman: re-appointment met with potential candidates put forward as the Chairmans successor and recommended a short list of candidates to the Board: of Directors considered and recommended to the Board the appointment of John Allan as Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate with effect from 1 August 2014 and as Chairman of the Board immediately following the conclusion of the 2014 AGM: and reviewed the skills, time commitment and tenure of each of the Non-Executive Directors and recommended the re-appointment of Mark Rolfe as Senior Independent Director for a further three-year term.
Conflicts of interest recommended to the Board the re-authorisation of conflicts of interest of existing Directors.
There were no situations notified by John Allan as potential conflicts of interest on his appointment.
Such recommendations were unanimously endorsed by the Board.
Board balance have no business or other relationship with the Group that At the end of the financial year, the Board comprised eight mightinfluence their independence or judgement.
Details members, including the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors of their interests as shareholders are contained in Table 13 and three Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee on page 79 of the Remuneration Report.
regularly reviews the balance of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as and when necessary.
Bob Lawson was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Currently, the Board believes that it has the appropriate balance Company with effect from 1 July 2008 and was considered of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors having tobe independent on his appointment.
During the year the regard to the size and nature of the business.
In addition, the Nomination Committee considered Bob Lawsons other combination of the experience and calibre of the Non-Executive significant commitments, his Non-Executive Chairmanship Directors collectively, having regard to their diverse backgrounds ofGenus plc and his directorship of The Federation of and experience and their varying lengths of service, further Groundwork Trusts, and concluded that they do not impinge enhances this balance thereby mitigating the risk of group think.
upon his availability to fulfil his duties to the Company.
These commitments were also considered during the annual review Board independence ofthe effectiveness of the Chairman led by the Senior The Company recognises the importance of its Non-Executive Independent Director and the same conclusion was reached.
Directors remaining independent throughout their appointment as this enables them to provide objective advice and guidance Appointment and re-appointment to the Executive Directors through the use of their wide business of Non-Executive Directors and commercial experience and diverse backgrounds.
The The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments Non-Executive Directors are also able constructively to challenge to the Board and makes recommendations to the Board when and scrutinise the performance of the Executive Directors and suitable candidates have been identified.
When a vacancy to satisfy themselves with the integrity of the financial information arises the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of considered by the Board and provided to the Companys skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board.
In addition, their independence is of utmost It then prepares a description of the roles and capabilities importance when considering the appointment or removal required for that appointment.
The search for Board candidates ofExecutive Directors and in the determination of succession is carried out, and appointments are made, based on merit planning for the Board and other key individuals within the having regard to the need to maintain a balance of skills and Group.
The Nomination Committee has, during the year, experience on the Board, diversity and, where appropriate, reviewed and confirmed to the Board, that it remains satisfied, refreshment of Board memberships.
External recruitment that all of the Non-Executive Directors, including John Allan consultants are used where appropriate.
asat the date of his appointment, are independent in that they BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Directors Report continued Nomination Committee Report continued Non-Executive Directors are appointed, subject to re-election Biographical details of each of the Directors and supporting by shareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal statements for the election or re-election of the Directors are of directors, by the Board, for an initial three-year term and set out on pages 44 and 45 of this report and in the Notice normally serve a second three-year term.
Beyond this a third of the 2014 AGM.
These details illustrate the complementary term of up to three years may be served subject to particularly diverse range of skill sets including general business, commerce, rigorous review and taking into account the need for progressive financial, housebuilding and digital marketing knowledge that refreshment of the Board.
The Articles, in accordance with the Board members possess and apply to ensuring effective Code, require any Non-Executive Director who has served nine stewardship.
Details of the Executive Directors service years or more on the Board continuously to be subject to contracts can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 71. annual re-appointment.
The Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions During the year the Nomination Committee, led by the Senior to be put forward at the 2014 AGM relating to the election and Independent Director, undertook a process to identify a suitable re-election of Directors.
candidate to take over as Chairman from Bob Lawson when hesteps down in November 2014.
Four leading firms were Induction invited to tender for the appointment and advise the Committee.
The Nomination Committee, under the stewardship of the Zygos, an independent recruitment firm, was duly appointed Chairman, ensures that on joining the Company, each new and prepared a long list including candidates of both genders.
Director participates in a full and formal induction process.
The Nomination Committee then proceeded to arrive at a JohnAllan took part in this process which included health shortlist and after interviews unanimously concluded that John andsafety training, site visits, meetings with all Board members, Allan was the most appropriate candidate.
key external advisers and senior and operational management teams across the business.
John was also provided with an The letters of appointment of all Non-Executive Directors are induction pack containing general and specific information available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered relating to his role such as a schedule of meetings, copies of office during normal office hours and will also be available at the Board minutes and various policies and procedures, details 2014 AGM for 15 minutes before and throughout the meeting.
of his duties as a director of a listed plc and other obligations The letters of appointment clearly set out the time commitment under the various regulations governing the Company.
expected from each Non-Executive Director to ensure they satisfactorily perform their duties.
Each Non-Executive Director Development confirms that they are able to allocate the time commitment In January of each year the Board meets for a full day to review required at the time of their appointment and thereafter as and develop the overall business strategy of the Group which part of their individual annual effectiveness review undertaken includes presentations from senior management within the by the Chairman.
Group as well as external professionals.
In January 2014 the Board discussed the Groups growth plans and a number of Retirement and re-election of Directors strategic issues including mortgage availability, customer The Articles currently require Directors to submit themselves for demand, innovative methods of off-site construction, attracting re-election by shareholders at the first AGM following their initial and retaining high quality employees in the context of appointment to the Board and thereafter at intervals of no more enhancing diversity at all levels, planning issues, land supplies than three years.
All Board members will, in accordance with and Government programmes.
The review is increasingly the Code, stand for election or re-election as applicable by focusing on the medium and long term issues impacting the theshareholders at the 2014 AGM with the exception of Bob demand for the provision of homes.
Lawson see above irrespective of their date of appointment and length of service on the Board.
Each of the Directors has The Nomination Committee ensures that Directors continue to been subject to a formal performance evaluation process and update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company the Nomination Committee, and the Board, are satisfied that by attending appropriate external seminars and training courses, they each continue to be effective in, and demonstrate meeting with senior management and visiting regional and commitment to, their respective roles.
divisional operating offices and sites collectively and individually.
During the year under review, the Directors received presentations and updates on matters such as key accounting issues, narrative reporting, changes to the Code and the new reporting requirements on executive remuneration.
The Chairman reviews training requirements and annually agrees development needs with individual Directors.
54 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors conflicts of interest levels of seniority, when considering Board appointments and On 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Act codified internal promotions, whilst always seeking to ensure that each the duty to avoid conflicts of interest, by which Directors have post is offered strictly on merit to the best available candidate.
aduty to avoid a situation in which they have, or may have, a A copy of this policy can be found on the Companys website direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest www.
This duty applies to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity regardless of whether the As at 30 June 2014, the aggregate representation of women on Company could have taken advantage of it.
The Articles were the Board was 25% two out of eight directors and one-third of amended at the AGM held on 18 November 2008 to include the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
Diversity ageneral power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
within the Groups workforce is considered within the Strategic Report on page 32.
The Board has, in accordance with the Articles and best practice guidance, authorised the Nomination Committee to oversee This report forms part of the Corporate Governance Report theprocess for reviewing and making recommendations to and is signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee by: theBoard concerning any actual or potential conflicts ofinterest which arise or may arise in relation to each member ofthe Board, including details of any terms and conditions which it Bob Lawson deems necessary to impose on any authorisation given.
This Chairman of the Nomination Committee process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
9 September 2014 The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which is reviewed annually.
Following this review he will make recommendations tothe Board in respect of any changes to the authorisations, orterms and conditions applied, that may be required.
Each Director is responsible for notifying, and is aware of their responsibility to notify, the Chairman and or the Board of anynew conflicts or possible conflicts and of any change in circumstances relating to authorisations already given.
The Board, when authorising any conflict or possible conflict of interest, does not count in the quorum the Director whose conflict or possible conflict is being discussed and reserves theright to exclude a Director from a meeting whilst a conflict orpossible conflict is being considered.
The Board may revoke or vary any authorisation at any time.
Board gender diversity policy The Nomination Committee continues to review the recommendations on gender diversity contained within LordDavies report, Women on Boards, as part of its annual effectiveness exercise.
The Nomination Committees primary goal remains to identify the most appropriate candidates to join the Board and other senior positions within the Group.
However, in accordance with its terms of reference it also seeks to ensure that in considering succession planning it has due regard to thebenefits of diversity for the Board and for the Group as awhole, including gender.
Accordingly, the Board will continue towork with recruitment search consultants but, moving forward, will only use those that have adopted a voluntary code of conduct addressing gender diversity.
The Board has agreed not to impose a quota regarding gender balance, although the Nomination Committee and the Board recognise the need to ensure that the business reflects a diverse workforce, at all BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
