Directors Report continued Audit Committee Report Letter from the Chairman of the Table 4 Membership and attendance at Audit Committee meetings Audit Committee Number of Member Role meetings attended Mark Rolfe Chairman 4 4 Richard Akers Member 4 4 Tessa Bamford Member 4 4 Nina Bibby Member 4 4 Rod MacEachrane Member 2 2 Rod MacEachrane ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 13 November 2013 when he stepped down from his position as a Non-Executive Director.
Note: 4 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
4 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the financial year ended 30 June 2014.
The Audit Committee is financial year and completed its annual work programme in full.
responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Attendance at each of these meetings is set out in Table 4.
In financial reporting and its systems of internal control and addition to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, risk management.
representatives from Deloitte LLP and the Chief Internal Auditor attended each of the Audit Committee meetings and met During the financial year the Audit Committee has focused with the Committee independently of management and the upon four key areas.
First, it considered the Groups key risks Chairman of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group and risk management systems and controls, including how Finance Director and other members of senior management policies on internal controls and risk management are cascaded also attended meetings or parts thereof, by invitation, as throughout the business and the risk of cyber threat to the required.
After each meeting, I have reported to the Board Group.
Secondly, it reviewed and challenged the accounting upon the main matters discussed in order to ensure that all judgements being used in the preparation of the Groups Directors are informed of the Audit Committees work.
The Financial Statements, especially those in relation to going following section details the work undertaken by the Audit concern, the land and work in progress valuation, the valuation Committee in respect of the financial year under review.
of available for sale financial assets and the goodwill and intangible assets impairment review.
Thirdly, it assessed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit Function and the Mark Rolfe External Auditor, including their independence, objectivity and Chairman of the Audit Committee tenure based upon a review of their respective engagements during the financial year.
Finally, itconsidered the Groups 9 September 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and concluded that they are fair, balanced and understandable, following the completion of a detailed review.
In order to provide the Audit Committee with an appropriate mixof skills and experience, including financial expertise, all Non-Executive Directors now sit on the Audit Committee and membership throughout the financial year is shown in Table 4.
I can confirm that, in accordance with Code provision C. 3.1, each of the members is considered to be independent and theBoard is satisfied that I have recent and relevant financialexperience.
56 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Key responsibilities and activities undertaken during the financial year The Audit Committee follows an annual work programme, which covers the principal responsibilities as set under its terms of reference available from the Companys website www.
The Audit Committee undertook, amongst other matters, the following key activities in respect of the financial year: Key responsibilities Activities undertaken during the year Going concern assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom and banking covenants: reviewed managements detailed analysis, which included forecasts and scenarios considering potential downturns in the housing market: and satisfied itself, and subsequently the Board, that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate in the context of the Groups funding and liquidity position.
Further details upon the Groups going concern assessment can be found on pages 91 and 102.
Integrity of reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Group and the Company and all formal announcements relating financial reporting to the Groups and Companys financial performance.
This process included the review and debate over the following areas of significance and took into account the views of Deloitte LLP: i Land and WIP valuation The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect of land and WIP valuation.
This review involved detailed consideration ofthe assumptions made upon specific sites and in the context of the current UK housing market.
Detail upon the judgements in this area are explained within the Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty on page 111.
The Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management and concluded that the valuation of our land and WIP remains appropriate.
ii Available for sale financial assets The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect of the valuation of our available for sale financial assets.
This review involved detailed consideration of the assumptions made including the estimation of the market value of properties at the forecast redemption date and the determination of a suitable discount rate.
Detail upon the judgements in this area are explained within the Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty on page 111 and in note 17 on page 125.
The Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management and concluded that the valuation of our available for sale financial assets remains appropriate.
iii Annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment review The Audit Committee considered the judgements made in relation to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model inputs used.
Detail upon the judgements in this area are explained within the Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty on page 112.
The Audit Committee also reviewed and approved sensitivities used by management which were consistent with the 2012 13 financial year and a reasonably possible change to model inputs including related disclosure, as required by IAS 36.
The Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management and concluded that no impairment of goodwill or intangible assets was required.
iv Fair, balanced and understandable The Audit Committee reflected upon the feedback provided by shareholders in respect of our 2012 13 Annual Report and Accounts including the Remuneration Report, the interim management statement and the half year results and the regular updates the Board received throughout the year, and received an early draft of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts to allow itself sufficient time to review the disclosures therein.
The Audit Committee also received a report from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary which confirmed that: i the Annual Report and Accounts had been reviewed by the Group Executive Directors: and ii the Company had received confirmation from its external advisers and separately its auditor, Deloitte LLP, that the Annual Report and Accounts adhered to the requirements of the Code and relevant rules and regulations.
The Audit Committee then assessed, at its September meeting, whether the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable, reviewed the processes underpinning the compilation and assurance of the Annual Report and Accounts, in relation to the financial and non-financial management information and reviewed the internal processes underpinning the Groups reporting governance framework, the use of content owners and external legal and auditor review.
The Boards formal statement on the Annual Report and Accounts is contained within the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 92.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Directors Report continued Audit Committee Report continued Key responsibilities Activities undertaken during the year The effectiveness of In accordance with principle C. 2.1. of the Code the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system internal controls and the of internal controls, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk risk management process management systems.
A risk framework hasbeen developed for all business processes by the internal audit function and approved by the Audit Committee.
This framework forms the basis of the internal control audit plan for the year ahead, which tests if controls are being applied effectively in each operating division.
Material issues identified during internal audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on aquarterly basis, and necessary actions are immediately taken to remedy any failings in the internal control system.
The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal controls therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal controls does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential issues can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups Financial Statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review of the consolidated accounts and Financial Statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
The Audit Committee plays a vital role in managing the effectiveness of internal controls and the risk management process on behalf of the Board and accordingly, during the year it: reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls in relation to material financial risks and reviewed a number of process improvements during the year, on behalf of the Board, and confirmed that the risk management and internal control systems had been in place throughout the year ended 30 June 2014 and that they and their effectiveness accord with Turnbull guidance: provided regular reports to the Board in respect of its findings on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management process, in order to assist the Board to conclude and confirm that, in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code, it has maintained sound risk management and internal control systems throughout the year under review, which seek to safeguard shareholders investments as well as the Groups assets.
In addition, the reports allowed the Board to determine the nature and extent of the significant risks that it is appropriate for the Group to take to achieve its strategic objectives and to be assured that Executive Directors and senior management continue to implement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems within the governance and policy framework approved by the Board: spent time with management below Board level to understand risks and controls in a number of areas of the business including: cascading of internal control and risk management policies within the business: onsite IT systems: risk of cyber threat to the business: supply chain risks: and the enhancement of financial control following the increase in volume of homes built: reviewed in detail the output of the bi-annual controls self-certification process from each of the divisions: considered all whistleblowing and fraud reports and actions: reviewed all internal audit results and action plans: received regular reports from the Risk Committee in respect of the work it had undertaken to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks and for assessing individual key risks on a rolling basis.
During the year the Risk Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference in order to enhance their alignment with the responsibilities of the Audit Committee in respect of internal controls and risk management: reviewed the risk framework to determine if the system of internal control remains effective and reported their findings to the Board when considering the draft interim and full year Financial Statements: and assisted the Executive Committee to prioritise the risk framework by identifying the risks considered most significant to the Group.
Consequently, for each of the risks so identified, an assessment has been made of the probability and potential impact on the business and these risks are reported on internally and reviewed during internal audits and control self-assessments.
58 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Key responsibilities Activities undertaken during the year The effectiveness of The structure deployed by the Group when assessing risks is set out in Managing Risk on pages 36 and 37 internal controls and the of the Strategic Report.
The key aspects of the Groups system of internal control and risk management framework risk management process are as follows: continued i a clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each operating division: ii financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis: iii identification and review of principal operational risk areas to ensure they are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system, so that risk identification and the control of risk are a routine aspect of management responsibility.
Details of the management of risk system utilised and the principal risks and uncertainties and their relevance to the operations and financial performance of the Group are set out in Managing Risk on pages 36 to 41 of the Strategic Report.
Amongst other matters, the risks reviewed by management, the Audit Committee and the Board include: economic environment, including housing demand and mortgage availability: land purchasing: liquidity: attracting and retaining high-calibre employees: availability of raw materials, subcontractors and suppliers: Government regulation and planning policy: construction and new technologies: joint ventures and consortia: safety, health and environmental: and IT: and iv assessment of compliance with internal control and risk management systems.
This assessment is supported by the Groups internal audit team which is responsible for undertaking an annual audit plan, ad hoc audits and reporting to the Audit Committee, and, if necessary, the Board, on the operation and effectiveness of those systems and any material failings with them.
The planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations is approved by the Audit Committee.
It includes full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas such as the land viability process, land acquisition control and monitoring, WIP and subcontractor payment controls.
Where the internal audit team does not have the expertise or resources required to conduct complex audits they deploy external expertise.
The Groups operations and financing arrangements expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in borrowing and debt profiles, market prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most significant of these to the Group is liquidity risk.
Accordingly, there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from the operations to Group management to ensure that risks are promptly identified and appropriate mitigating actions taken.
These forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities and banking covenants is maintained.
In addition, the Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on its financial performance, in particular by using financial instruments, including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest and currency rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Such activities are delegated, by the Board, to a centralised Treasury Operating Committee, which in turn regularly reports to the Board.
The treasury department implements guidelines that are established by the Board, in accordance with approved treasury policies, and the Treasury Operating Committee.
The Audit Committee is pleased with the progress made to date, and recognises that work will need to be continued in these areas during the next financial year.
The Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Directors Report continued Audit Committee Report continued Key responsibilities Activities undertaken during the year Review of considered the impact of the adoption of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits accounting policies and the choice of accounting framework for the Companys subsidiaries following the decision to replace UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP which will apply from 1 July 2015.
External auditor considered the following areas in respect of the external auditor: i Re-appointment of auditor The Audit Committee took into account the following factors when considering the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditor to the Company and whether or not to tender the external audit in respect of the 2014 15 financial year: feedback on the effectiveness of the external audit from divisional, regional and Group Management who were closely involved in both the interim and year end reporting process: the Codes requirement to put the external audit out to tender every ten years, Deloitte LLP was appointed as the auditor of the Company through an external tender process in 2007: the appointment of Mark Goodey as the lead audit partner during the last financial year.
Mark Goodey will continue to act in this capacity until the conclusion of the 2017 audit subject to satisfactory performance.
FRC guidance and the Code suggest that the tendering should normally align with the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation: Deloitte LLPs objectivity and independence: Deloitte LLPs performance against the audit plan for the 2013 14 financial year: and the quality of advice and assistance brought to bear and received throughout the year.
The Audit Committee concluded that Deloitte LLPs performance as auditor to the Company continues to be satisfactory and that it was not necessary to consider a tender process this year.
The Audit Committee will assess its tendering arrangements towards the conclusion of Mark Goodeys period in office, or earlier if it has reason to do so.
Accordingly, it recommended to the Board that a resolution re-appointing Deloitte LLP as the auditor to the Company be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
That recommendation was subsequently endorsed by the Board.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
ii Auditor objectivity, audit effectiveness and independence The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit and concluded that the audit process as a whole had been conducted robustly and that the team selected to undertake the audit had done so thoroughly and professionally.
In coming to this conclusion the Audit Committee reviewed amongst other matters: Deloitte LLPs fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and the absence of any variations from it: reports highlighting the material issues and accounting judgements that arose during the conduct of the audit: feedback from Group and Regional management finance functions and the Chief Internal Auditor evaluating the performance of the audit: and the report from the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team.
iii Auditor independence and non-audit fees policy The Audit Committee formally reviewed the policy which the Company has implemented on Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Fees the Policy during the year.
The Policy sets out the duties of the Audit Committee and the limited range of services which the auditor may provide without requiring prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Any services outside this scope must be approved by the Audit Committee in order to maintain auditor independence and to monitor non-audit fees incurred by the Group.
The Policy also sets out a number of services which the external auditor is excluded from providing to the Group.
These include: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or Financial Statements: financial information systems design and implementation relating to the Financial Statements or accounting records: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, or : actuarial services: internal audit outsourcing services: management functions or human resources: broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services: legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and executive recruiting.
60 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Key responsibilities Activities undertaken during the year External auditor Under the Policy the Company is required to, and does, obtain written confirmation from Deloitte LLP that they remain continued independent on an annual basis.
Deloitte LLP have also provided a comprehensive report to the Audit Committee verifying that they have performed their audit and audit-related services in line with independence requirements and assessing why Deloitte LLP believe they remain independent within the requirements of the applicable regulations and their own professional standards, which were conclusions that the Audit Committee endorsed.
In reaching these conclusions the Audit Committee reviewed, amongst other matters, the: report from Deloitte LLP describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: extent of the non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP: and the ratio of audit to non-audit fees more generally.
iv Non-audit services The Audit Committee, while being satisfied that the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for the 2013 14 financial year was within the guidelines contained within the Policy, considered this area carefully given that the non-audit fees excluding audit-related assurance services were almost equal to the audit fees including the audit-related assurance services incurred by the Group for the same period.
Details of the audit including audit-related and non-audit fees incurred by the Group can be found on page 116.
The Audit Committee discussed the level of non-audit fees in detail with the Group Finance Director to gain an understanding of their nature and the rationale for engaging Deloitte LLP.
The Audit Committee noted that the majority of the non-audit fees related to audit-related assurance services which principally comprise the review of the Groups interim report, taxation compliance for which Deloitte LLP were appointed on 1 December 2010 following a competitive tender process in which four of the leading audit firms took part, and also taxation advice on various land acquisitions and disposals during the year.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee was satisfied that the work performed by Deloitte LLP was appropriate in the context of ensuring their independence as auditor, particularly given that the audit-related assurance services, relating to the review of the Groups interim report, can only be conducted by the Groups auditor and that the tax advisory services had been managed by a partner who has no involvement with the audit of the Group.
Consequently, the Audit Committee concluded that the level of non-audit fees was justified and did not raise any concerns in terms of Deloitte LLPs independence as auditor to the Group.
Deloitte LLP have also confirmed, in writing, that they are in agreement with this conclusion.
The Audit Committee confirms that there are no independence issues in respect of the auditor and that the Policy has been appropriately complied with throughout the year under review.
Internal Audit Function received reports from the Chief Internal Auditor on the findings of internal audits conducted throughout the business: and reviewed the systems and processes adopted by the internal audit function to ensure that they remain fit for purpose.
Audit Committee implemented the recommendations arising from the previous years performance evaluation: and effectiveness evaluated its own performance and that of its members through an internal process led by the Chairman of the Committee.
The outcome of the review was positive particularly in respect of each member having a clear understanding of what is expected of them to undertake and discharge their responsibilities.
The areas of focus identified were to continue monitoring the level of relevant financial experience within the Audit Committee: to continue to seek to streamline the Audit Committees briefing papers further: and to ensure that there was adequate time allocated to each item for discussion at the meeting.
Whistleblowing received updates from the Chief Internal Auditor on new whistleblowing incidents, on-going investigations and the outcome of any completed investigations: assessed the adequacy of the Groups whistleblowing policy in accordance with the requirements of the Code: and reviewed the procedure adopted by the Group to ensure it remains appropriate and adequately allows individuals who become aware of possible improper, unethical or even illegal behaviour to raise the matter with their manager or alternatively refer the matter to a confidential and independent telephone number the Whistleblowing Number.
The Whistleblowing Number is available to all employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week and any issues reported to the Whistleblowing Number are immediately brought to the attention of the Chief Internal Auditor.
The Chief Internal Auditor reviews and investigates the issue, and at his sole discretion can seek guidance from appropriate individuals within the Group, such as the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, as and when he deems necessary.
This report forms part of the Corporate Governance Report and is signed on behalf of the Audit Committee by: Mark Rolfe Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 September 2014 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
