Directors Report continued Corporate Governance Report The Board Table 1 Membership and attendance at Board meetings The Company is led and controlled by the Board, which has overall responsibility for the conduct of the business of the Number of Member Role meetings attended Group and ensuring that the obligations to its shareholders and Bob Lawson Chairman 9 9 others are understood and met.
The Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction of the Group and ensuring that it Mark Clare Group Chief Executive 9 9 has adequate resources and appropriate controls, values and David Thomas Group Finance Director 9 9 standards in place to deliver its strategy within a framework that Steven Boyes Group Chief Operating Officer 9 9 enables risk to be identified and managed.
Each Board Director Richard Akers Non-Executive Director 9 9 is aware of their responsibilities, individually and collectively, Tessa Bamford Non-Executive Director 9 9 to promote the long term success of the Group.
Nina Bibby Non-Executive Director 9 9 Rod MacEachrane Non-Executive Director 3 3 Board composition Mark Rolfe Senior Independent Director 9 9 The names, responsibilities and other details of each of the Rod MacEachrane stepped down from his position as Non-Executive Director of the Company Board Directors are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Membership on 13 November 2013. of the Board throughout the financial year and attendance at Note: each of its meetings are set out in Table 1.
John Allan joined the 9 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate 9 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
Corporate Governance reporting structure The Board Board Committees Group Management Committees Safety, Health and Nomination Audit Remuneration Executive Operations Land Environmental Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Constituted 1 July 2014 Health and Safety Risk Treasury Operating Operations Committee Committee Committee 46 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Key responsibilities and activities undertaken during website at www.
The Board the financial year including Matters Reserved : met on nine occasions during the financial year to review and The Board follows an annual standing agenda which has approve various key matters including those matters specifically been set in accordance with its terms of reference and reserved to it.
The key responsibilities of the Board and how matters reserved specifically to it.
A copy of the matters these were undertaken throughout the year are set out below: reserved to the Board can be found on the Companys Key responsibilities Activities undertaken during the year Strategy and management off-site strategic review of the Groups business including the performance of the Group against the strategy, objectives, the business plan and budgets, the long term strategy and objectives of the Group as well as the Groups three-year plan and budget: considered and approved various material land investments transactions including joint ventures: and reviewed the Groups safety, health and environmental performance throughout the business.
Financial reporting reviewed and approved: and controls the final results and the Interim Financial Statements: the Groups dividend policy to ensure it remains fit for purpose: the payment of an interim and recommendation of a final dividend: and changes to accounting policies and controls.
Risk management reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business: and and internal controls reviewed the work undertaken by the Risk and the Audit Committees in this area in order to ensure that a sound system of internal control and risk management is maintained.
Board composition led by the Chairman, undertook an internal performance evaluation of itself, its Committees and each of the Directors: and effectiveness considered and approved recommendations from the Nomination Committee to re-appoint Mark Rolfe as Senior Independent Director for a further three-year term: and met with the candidates short-listed as successors to the Chairman and ultimately approved the appointment of John Allan as a Non-Executive Director and successor designate to the Chairman.
Directors approved the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Senior Management following recommendations from the remuneration Remuneration Committee: reviewed the Companys funding of the Groups pension scheme: reviewed and approved the fees of the Non-Executive Directors including John Allan: and approved the grant and vesting maturity of awards and options under the Groups long term incentive schemes and Sharesave.
Corporate reviewed the Groups adherence to the Code: and governance assessed and confirmed the independence of Directors.
Group policies reviewed core Group policies relating to matters such as health & safety, ethics and anti-bribery, accounting policies and procedures to ensure that they remain fit for purpose.
In addition to a formal strategic review, the Board held meetings General Counsel and Company Secretary and external advisers, in, and conducted site visits in, the West and the Southern as appropriate.
Membership and attendance at meetings of regions of the business for periods spanning two days each.
each of the Committees during the 2013 14 financial year are Separate to these formal visits, individual Non-Executive shown in Tables 4, 17 and 3 pages 56, 82 and 52 respectively.
Directors also undertook informal site visits as part of their direct Each of these Committees and the Board completed annual engagement with employees.
The Board also receives briefings effectiveness reviews see pages 61, 83, 53 and 49. from Regional Managing Directors who are not hosting annual site visits from time to time, together with presentations and The Board constituted a fourth committee, the Safety, Health updates from key support functions, such as health and safety, and Environmental Committee the SHE Committee on 1 July human resources, information technology and sales and 2014 which will meet at least twice a year.
This has assisted the Board with assessing the risks will assist stewardship of the safety, health and environmental affecting the business, having had the benefit of direct input from issues impacting the business including, but not limited to, the those responsible for managing such risks on a regular basis.
Groups compliance with the safety, health and environmental management system: to review and recommend appropriate Board committees policies for the Group in respect of this area: and to review and During the year the Board had three principal committees to which monitor significant health, safety and environmental risks and it delegated specific responsibilities: the Audit pages 56 to 61 : the exposures to the business and the steps taken to mitigate Remuneration pages 62 to 86 : and the Nomination pages 52 to against these.
The Chairman of the SHE Committee is Richard 55 Committees each a Committee.
Each Committee Akers, Non-Executive Director and the members are Steven isprovided with sufficient resources to undertake the duties Boyes, Group Chief Operating Officer and Tom Keevil, Group delegated to them and is able to seek advice from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance Report continued Group management committees In addition to the Board committees there are a number of Group management committees which report directly to the Board or to a Board Committee to focus on specific areas of the business.
The Group management committees together with their membership and responsibilities are set out below: The Executive Committee The Risk Committee The Land Committee Meets on a weekly basis to review operational Meets at least three times a year.
matters and also undertakes more in-depth monthly reviews.
Members: Members: Members: Executive Board members, the Group The Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Group Board Executive Directors, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Controller, the Group General Counsel and General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Sales & Marketing Director, the Company Secretary, the Group Safety, Health the Group Treasurer, the Director of Group Director of Corporate Affairs, the Group and Environment Director, a Regional Managing Corporate Affairs and the Group Sales Human Resources Director and the Managing Director, a Regional Finance Director from a & Marketing Director.
Director of Wilson Bowden Developments.
different region and the Chief Internal Auditor.
Other employees of the Group, such as Responsibilities: Other members of the Executive Committee, the Group Joint Heads of Legal Property Supporting the Group Chief Executive in heads of function and senior managers attend Services, are invited to attend each meeting.
carrying out the day-to-day management meetings by invitation having regard to the of the activities of the Group.
business areas to be explored.
Responsibilities: Reviewing and approving all land acquisition Responsibilities: proposals across the Group.
Depending Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups on the value of the land acquisition, Board internal control policies and procedures for approval may also be required, for example the identification, assessment and reporting for any joint venture arrangement.
of risks and assessing individual key risks on a rolling basis.
The Health and Safety The Operations Committee The Treasury Operating Committee Meets on a monthly basis.
Meets as and when required by the needs Operations Committee of the business.
Members: Members: Members: The Group Chief Operating Officer and the The Group Chief Executive, the Group The Group Chief Operating Officer, the Group six Regional Managing Directors.
Finance Director and the Group Treasurer.
General Counsel and Company Secretary, theGroup Safety, Health and Environment Members of the Executive Committee, heads Responsibilities: Director, the Group Design & Technical of Group functions and the Regional Finance Reviewing the Groups funding requirements Director, the Group Human Resources Directors attend the meetings by invitation and approving new debt facilities.
Further Director, a Construction Director, two Regional on an ad-hoc basis.
approval from the Board may be required for Managing Directors and a divisional safety, certain types of funding and where the level of health and environment manager.
Responsibilities: funding is over and above the levels delegated Responsible for managing operational to the Treasury Operating Committee.
Developing the health and safety strategy for the Group: ensuring that health and safety policies and procedures are adequately implemented and adhered to throughout the Group: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups health and safety systems and keeping abreast of changes in legislation surrounding safety, health and the environment.
48 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Board performance evaluation Roles of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive The Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous and the Senior Independent Director annual evaluation of its own performance, that of its Committees The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the and of individual Directors.
Given that an external consultant Board and the Group Chief Executive is clearly defined in writing undertook the performance evaluation of the Board and its and has been approved by the Board.
The key responsibilities Committees for the 2012 13 financial year, the Board agreed of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior to carry out such evaluation for the year under review through Independent Director are as follows: an internal process which was led by the Chairman.
The Chairman Bob Lawson Areas covered by the evaluation leads the Board in the determination of strategy and in the The Board evaluation process covered the performance of achievement of its objectives: theBoard and its Committees on various areas, including: organises the business of the Board by setting its agenda contribution to strategy and shareholder accountability: and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion risk management: of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues: financial and operating reporting: ensures that the Board receives timely, accurate and clear succession planning including diversity : information so as to conduct its business properly: inter-relationships between the Board and its Committees: and facilitates the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Board Committees and decision making.
Directors and constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Key findings ensures new Directors participate in a full and formal Overall feedback was positive with the Directors recognising that induction process: the performance and effectiveness of the Board had been further makes certain that the continued development needs enhanced by implementing the recommendations made by Mrs of the Directors are identified and addressed: and Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation in respect of the ensures effective communication with shareholders.
In addition, the Directors complimented the strategy day in January in terms of subject matters addressed The Chairman is supported by Tom Keevil, the Group General and the quality of the briefing papers produced.
Counsel and Company Secretary, in carrying out these duties.
Focus areas for 2014 15 The Group Chief Executive Mark Clare The key areas that the Board will focus on and address responsible for the day-to-day management of the operational throughout this financial year are to ensure that: activities of the Group in accordance with overall strategy the disciplines enshrined into the Board process and policy as determined by the Board: and are maintained: chairs the Executive Committee through which he carries focus remains on the Board and the Committees maintaining out his duties.
Details on the membership and duties of the satisfactory skills, experience and knowledge to help deliver Executive Committee can be found on page 48 of this report.
the Companys long term strategy and objectives: and succession plans continue to be monitored and refreshed The Senior Independent Director Mark Rolfe in line with the needs of the business.
responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, at least annually: and Progress with 2012 13 focus areas responsible for ensuring that, where required, he is available During the year the Board and its Committees addressed all to shareholders to: i address any material issues or the issues raised as part of the 2012 13 performance evaluation concerns which the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive process, including setting aside time at each meeting to consider have failed to resolve: and ii listen to their views in order its effectiveness and the streamlining of briefing papers and for the Company to gain a balanced understanding of their presentations to the Board.
Evaluation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Information and support In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Chairman The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board met with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the receives accurate, timely and clear information.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior isissued with an agenda, briefing papers and comprehensive Independent Director, met without the Chairman being present, to operating and financial management reports for the period assess the performance of the Chairman and provided feedback under review, generally five working days before any Board from the process.
There were no issues of any substance arising meeting.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary from the review of the Chairmans performance and there was attends all Board and Committee meetings and all Directors unanimous support for him.
In addition, the Chairman met with have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent each Director individually to discuss their contribution to the Board professional advice at the Companys expense to assist with and their performance as Directors during the year under review.
the discharge of their responsibilities as Directors.
Inaddition to these specific meetings the Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Executive Directors being present either immediately prior to or immediately following committee meetings, given that they are all members of each of these.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance Report continued All Directors are provided with a rolling three-year schedule of iv Graduate recruitment proposed meeting dates.
Any Director who is unable to attend The Group runs a number of programmes for new entrants a meeting is invited to provide their views to the Chairman ahead through our Future Talent Strategy.
The Group currently has of that meeting, having reviewed the agenda, briefing papers 86 graduates across our two-year and one-year schemes, 64 of and management information.
Reasons for non-attendance which commenced their training in September 2014.
In addition, are recorded by the Group General Counsel and Company 64 delegates have commenced our new bespoke Foundation Secretary and either he or the Chairman will, thereafter, meet Degree in Residential Development and Construction.
We are with any absent Director to go through any action points which currently training 332 Trade Apprentices, 34 Commercial and are of relevance to that Director.
Formal minutes of each Board Technical Trainees and 21 undergraduate paid interns.
Over a meeting are prepared, circulated and submitted for approval three year period, we have committed to recruit in aggregate at the next meeting.
Employment policy and involvement v Employee training and development i Employment and diversity The Group has a suite of leadership and management The Group is committed to seeking to develop the talents of its development programmes aimed at all levels within the employees so that they can maximise their career potential and organisation.
The programmes are designed and delivered providing rewarding careers in an atmosphere that engenders internally and are tailored to the needs of the business.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on merit, following an objective assessment of ability and The Group also offers the Barratt Academy, a staged experience of candidates, after giving full and fair consideration to programme to enable employee development from Apprentice all applications including individuals with disabilities.
The Group to site manager as well as within the areas of Technical, is also committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from Commercial and Sales.
Succession planning is in place across discrimination.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and the Group and the leadership programmes assist with the practices provide equal opportunities in respect of issues such as development of individuals as part of this process.
training, career development and promotion for all existing or potential staff irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, vi Employee Sharesave Scheme religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
In April 2014 the Company invited all eligible employees of Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become the Group to participate in the sixth grant under the Savings disabled whilst working within the Group.
Related Share Option Scheme the 2014 Sharesave which was approved by shareholders at the Companys annual ii Employee engagement general meeting AGM held in November 2008.
The invitations The Board recognises that appropriate employee engagement for the 2014 Sharesave were deferred until the current financial is a key factor in the long term success of the Group.
It utilises year to allow eligible employees to take full advantage of the a comprehensive employee engagement programme with the changes introduced by HMRC to the maximum monthly aim of creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are savings limit.
Consequently, the Company allowed eligible invited to take part in an on-line engagement survey each year.
employees to contribute a maximum of 500 per month in The results of this survey are fed back to each operating one or a combination of Sharesave schemes, compared to the division who use the results to formulate plans for maintaining 250 per month permitted in previous years.
This gave those or improving engagement in the following year.
individuals who had participated in previous grants under the Sharesave the opportunity to increase their savings and gave iii Employee communications other employees new and existing the chance to participate A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
in the 2014 Sharesave and become more involved in the The Company seeks to ensure that all significant events, Groups performance.
As at 30 June 2014, approximately economic factors and financial updates and the impact of 45% of employees participate in one or more of the active these on the performance of the Group are communicated to Sharesave schemes.
This is mainly done through the Groups intranet, email alerts, core briefings and regular newsletters.
Additionally, Relations with shareholders the Group Chief Executive regularly briefs senior and middle The Board recognises the importance of having an on-going management via conference calls and bulletins which gives relationship with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It fully them the opportunity to ask questions and enter into dialogue.
supports the principles of the Code and the UK Stewardship Individually and collectively, the Board and the Executive Code which encourages open dialogue between companies Committee members visit operating divisions and sites and their shareholders.
The Group has arrangements in place frequently in order to assess operational performance, engage which enable it to communicate effectively with shareholders with employees on a one-to-one basis and gain first-hand in respect of matters such as business strategy, governance, experience of employees aspirations and concerns.
remuneration and any senior management or Board changes.
50 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Information about the Group, its Board and its business, Table 2 Notifiable Interests including the interim and annual reports, interim management statements and trading updates, company announcements % of total % of total issued share issued share and details on services available to shareholders can be found Number of capital when capital as at Nature of on the Companys website at www.
1 2 3 Name voting rights notified 30.06.2014 holding Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 3.51 Indirect required via the Regulatory Information Service and the Group Capital Research strives to ensure that all key information is effectively and and Management clearly communicated.
Company 50,235,000 5.104 5.10 Indirect JP Morgan Chase The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director & Co 17,286,656 4.98 1.76 Indirect meet regularly with investors and analysts in order to convey an Standard Life Direct & Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.94 4.84 Indirect understanding of the market and the Groups operations and Ruffer LLP 46,887,233 4.80 4.76 Direct objectives.
These meetings take place throughout the year but particularly after the annual and interim results announcements.
Polaris Capital Management LLC 34,606,679 3.59 3.51 Indirect The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors also have 1 Represents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective theopportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders at shareholder in accordance with DTR 5.1.
Certain of such notifications pre-date the the request of either party and the Senior Independent Director Companys Placing and Rights Issue in 2009 and may not reflect the relevant shareholders is available to meet with major shareholders, as and when holding following the equity issue, where the revised holding has not triggered a further notification requirement.
required, to gain an understanding of any issues and concerns.
2 Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the relevant notification dates.
3 Based on the Total Voting Rights as at 30 June 2014 as announced on 1 July 2014 and, During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee accordingly, may not accurately reflect the position in respect of those shareholders whose consulted with major investors and the principal investor notifications preceded the Placing and Rights Issue as referred to above.
advisory groups, on the proposed remuneration policy of the Group for the 2014 15 financial year and the following two Between 1 July 2014 and 9 September 2014 no changes years which will be presented to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
in respect of interests in the voting rights in the Companys He also communicated separately with them on the key matters issued share capital have been notified to the Company.
considered by the Committee and how the remuneration policy has been applied during the year.
The Total Voting Rights of the Company as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, as announced on 1 September In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have 2014, are 985,105,849. aclear understanding of, the views of major shareholders, the Group Finance Director presents regular reports to the Articles of Association Board on the Companys investor relations activities and reports The Companys Articles of Association the Articles contain are received from the Companys broker.
regulations which deal with matters such as the appointment and removal of Directors, Directors interests and proceedings The notice of each AGM and related papers are circulated to at general and board meetings.
Any amendments to the allshareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions AllDirectors, including the Chairmen of the Committees, attend of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special resolution the AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions.
The Group Chief Executive also gives a presentation on the progress and performance of the Group prior to the formal On behalf of the Board business of the meeting.
Major shareholders Tom Keevil In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Transparency Rules the DTRs all notifications received by the Company are published on the Companys website 9 September 2014 www.
co. uk and via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 30 June 2014 the persons set out in Table 2 have notified the Company, pursuant to DTR 5.1, of their interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
