120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 25 Corporate Governance Statement The Company is a member of the Association of Senior Independent Director with effect from the date Investment Companies the AIC.
The Board has of the Annual General Meeting on 28 May 2015. therefore considered the principles and Since all the Directors are non-executive, in recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate accordance with the AIC Code and the preamble to Governance issued in February 2013 the AIC the UK Corporate Governance Code, the provisions Code by reference to the AIC Corporate of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the role Governance Guide for Investment Companies issued of the chief executive and, except in so far as they at the same time the AIC Guide, both of which apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors can be found at www.
The AIC Code, remuneration, are not relevant to the Company, and as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the are not reported on further.
principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance The Companys Articles of Incorporation require all Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Directors to retire by rotation at least every three September 2012, which can be found at years.
However, in accordance with the www.
uk, as well as setting out additional recommendations of the AIC Code and the UK principles and recommendations on issues specic Corporate Governance Code the Board has agreed to investment companies.
The AIC Code also that all Directors will retire annually and, if incorporates a framework of best practice for appropriate, seek re-election.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and The Board considers that it is appropriate to report experience are considered to add signicantly to the against the principles and recommendations of the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which overall length of service of any of the Companys incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Directors, including the Chairman, has been In September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services imposed.
Commission issued a Finance Sector Code of During the year the performance of the Board, Corporate Governance the GFSC Code.
As the committees and individual Directors was evaluated Company already reports against the AIC Code and through an assessment process led by the the UK Corporate Governance Code it is deemed to Chairman.
This process involved the completion of meet the requirements of the GFSC Code and has questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the therefore not reported further on its compliance with Company, discussions with individual Directors and that code.
individual feedback from the Chairman to each of the The Board consists solely of independent nonDirectors.
The evaluation of the Chairman was led by executive Directors.
During the year, the Directors did the Chairman of the Audit Committee in consultation not consider it appropriate to appoint a Senior with all the other Directors.
Independent Director as recommended by principle The table below sets out the number of scheduled 1 of the AIC Code and provision A.
4.1 of the UK Board and committee meetings held during the year Corporate Governance Code, as this role was fullled and the number of meetings attended by each by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition to these scheduled meetings, that matter, the Company complied throughout the there were a further 21 Board and Board committee year with the recommendations of the AIC Code and meetings held in Guernsey during the year.
the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Since the end of the year, and as Individual Directors may, at the expense of the explained in the Chairmans Statement, the Board Company, seek independent professional advice on has decided that Mr M R Moore will be appointed as any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Russell 5 5 n a n a 1 1 1 1 T Clark 5 5 3 3 1 1 appointed 4 February 2014 M R Moore 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 P Niven 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 B W Sweetland 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 N J M Tostevin 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 26 Corporate Governance Statement continued their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate directors and ofcers liability insurance.
nomination committee which did not include the entire Board and believes that this enables all The basis on which the Company aims to generate Directors to be kept fully informed of any issues that value over the longer term is set out in its objective arise.
and investment policy as contained on page 8.
A management agreement between the Company and The committee is convened for the purpose of FCIB sets out the matters over which the Managers considering the appointment of additional Directors have authority and the limits beyond which Board as and when considered appropriate.
Any approval must be sought.
All other matters, including appointments to the Board are based on merit, but investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, in considering appointments the Nomination gearing, corporate governance procedures and risk Committee also takes into account the ongoing management, are reserved for the approval of the requirements of the Company and the need to have Board of Directors.
The Board meets at least a balance of skills, experience, independence, quarterly and receives full information on the diversity, including gender, and knowledge of the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities Company within the Board.
The Directors have not and other relevant information in advance of Board set any measurable objectives in relation to the meetings.
Whenever there are new appointments, these Directors receive an induction Throughout the year a number of committees have from the Managers and Company Secretary on been in place.
Those committees are the Audit joining the Board.
All Directors receive other relevant Committee, the Management Engagement training, collectively or individually, as necessary.
Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The committees operate within clearly dened terms of reference which are available for inspection upon Relations with Shareholders request at the Companys registered ofce.
The Company proactively seeks the views of its shareholders and places great importance on Audit Committee communication with them.
The Board receives The Report of the Audit Committee is contained on regular reports from the Managers and brokers on pages 27 to 29. the views of shareholders, and the Chairman and other Directors meet with major shareholders at least annually and make themselves available to meet Management Engagement Committee shareholders when required to discuss any significant The Management Engagement Committee issues that have arisen and address shareholder comprises all of the Directors and is chaired by Mr P concerns and queries.
The Notice of Annual General Niven.
Meeting to be held on 28 May 2015 is set out on The committee reviews the appropriateness of the pages 63 and 64.
It is hoped that this will provide a Managers continuing appointment together with the forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to terms and conditions thereof on a regular basis.
It meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of the Company.
The Annual Report and also reviews the terms and quality of service Notice of Annual General Meeting are posted to received from other service providers on a regular shareholders at least 20 working days before the basis.
As stated in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 30, the full Board determines the level of Directors fees and accordingly there is no separate Remuneration Committee.
On behalf of the Board Nomination Committee C Russell The Nomination Committee comprises all of the Director Directors and is chaired by Mr C Russell.
The Board considers that, given its size, it would be 9 April 2015 26 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
