120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 27 Report of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee comprised all In relation to the provision of non-audit services by the Directors except the Chairman of the Board, the auditor, it has been agreed that all non-audit work Mr C Russell.
It is chaired by Mr N J M Tostevin.
Mrs to be carried out by the auditor must be approved in T Clark will become Chairman of the Committee advance by the Audit Committee and any special following the Annual General Meeting on 28 May projects must also be approved in advance.
In 2015 at which Mr Tostevin will retire from the Board addition to statutory audit fees of 74,000 2013: 65,000, KPMG received audit-related fees of The duties of the committee include reviewing the 11,000 for the year 2013: 13,000 which related Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal principally to a review of the interim financial controls, and the terms of appointment and information.
The Audit Committee does not consider remuneration of the auditor, KPMG Channel Islands that the provision of such non-audit services is a Limited KPMG, including its independence and threat to the objectivity and independence of the objectivity.
It is also the forum through which KPMG conduct of the audit.
reports to the Board of Directors.
The committee As part of the review of auditor independence and meets at least twice yearly including at least one meeting with KPMG.
effectiveness, KPMG have confirmed that they are independent of the Company and have complied The Audit Committee met on three occasions during with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating KPMG, the year and the attendance of each of the members the Audit Committee has taken into consideration the is set out on page 25.
In the course of its duties, the standing, skills and experience of the rm and the committee had direct access to KPMG and senior audit team.
The Committee assesses the members of the Managers investment company effectiveness of the audit process through the team.
Amongst other things, the Audit Committee reporting it receives from KPMG in respect of both considered and reviewed the following matters and the half year and year end Report and Accounts.
The reported thereon to the Board: committee remains satisfied that KPMG continues to the annual and half-yearly reports and accounts: provide effective independent challenge in carrying the accounting polices of the Group: out its responsibilities.
On the basis of this the principal risks faced by the Company and the assessment, the Audit Committee has recommended effectiveness of the Companys internal control the continuing appointment of KPMG to the Board.
environment: Following professional guidelines, the audit partner the effectiveness of the audit process and related rotates after five years and this is the fourth year for non-audit services and the independence and the current partner.
The appointment has not been objectivity of KPMG, their re-appointment, put out to tender since the Companys launch in remuneration and terms of engagement: 2005 and it is the current intention of the Audit the policy on the engagement of KPMG to supply Committee that the appointment will not be put out non-audit services: to tender until the end of the next partners five year the implications of proposed new accounting rotation term.
KPMGs performance will, however, standards and regulatory changes: continue to be reviewed annually taking into account the receipt of an AAF report from the Managers: all relevant guidance and best practice.
and whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and Internal Controls understandable.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As part of its review of the scope and results of It has therefore established a process designed to the audit, during the year the Audit Committee meet the particular needs of the Company in considered and approved KPMGs plan for the audit managing the risks to which it is exposed, of the financial statements for the year ended consistent with the internal control guidance issued 31 December 2014.
At the conclusion of the audit, by the Financial Reporting Council.
KPMG did not highlight any issues to the Audit Committee which would cause it to qualify its audit As part of this process, a matrix has been created report, nor did it highlight any fundamental internal that identies the Companys key functions, including control weaknesses.
KPMG issued an unqualied those carried out by the Managers and other service audit report which is included on pages 33 to 35. providers, and the individual activities undertaken Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 28 Report of the Audit Committee continued within those functions.
From this, the Board has the Company Secretary in respect of compliance identied the Companys principal risks and the matters and duties performed on behalf of the Company.
controls employed to manage those risks.
These are reviewed at each quarterly Board Meeting.
The A formal annual review of these procedures is carried Board also monitors the investment performance of out by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee the Company against its stated objective and has also reviewed the Managers Report on Policies comparable companies and reviews the Companys and Procedures in Operation and Tests in activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that accordance with AAF 01 06 for the year ended the Managers adhere to the agreed investment 31 December 2014 that has been prepared for their policy and approved investment guidelines and, if investment company clients.
Containing a report from necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
In independent external accountants, the report sets out addition, the Board receives quarterly reports from the Managers control policies and procedures with Significant Matters Considered by the Audit Committee in Relation to the Financial Statements Matter Action Valuation of the Investment Property Portfolio The Groups property portfolio accounted for 91 per cent The Board and Audit Committee reviewed the outcomes of its total assets as at 31 December 2014.
Although of the valuation process throughout the year and valued by an independent firm of valuers, CBRE Limited, discussed the detail of each of the quarterly valuations the valuation of the investment property portfolio is with the Managers at Board Meetings.
The Managers inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement by liaise with the valuers on a regular basis and meet with the valuers.
Errors in the valuation could have a material them prior to the production of each quarterly valuation.
impact on the Companys net asset value.
Further The Board was represented at most of the quarterly information about the property portfolio and inputs to the valuation meetings with CBRE Limited during the year, valuations are set out in note 9 to the accounts.
including the meeting in advance of the production of the year end valuation.
In addition, this is the main area of audit focus and, accordingly, the Audit Committee receives detailed verbal and written reports from KPMG on this matter.
Accounting Recognition of Secured Bonds On 31 December 2014, the Group drew down new longThe Audit Committee reviewed the Groups re-financing term borrowings of 260 million as detailed in note 14 to arrangements and concluded that the Group was the accounts.
The majority of these funds were held in a required to continue to consolidate the results of its secured bank account at the year end and were used to financing subsidiary, F&C Commercial Property Finance repay the Groups existing 230 million Secured Bonds Limited, at 31 December 2014.
The Audit Committee on 2 January 2015. concluded that as the funds held in the secured account on 31 December 2014 were under the control of the Bond Trustee and could be used for no purpose other than the repayment of the Secured Bonds, the offsetting requirements contained in IAS 32 were met and the cash held should be offset against the bond liability and the net balance of nil shown on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Further details are contained in notes 13 and 18 to the accounts.
Going Concern The Groups accounts have been prepared on a going The Audit Committee reviewed the basis for concluding concern basis.
Under guidance issued by the Financial that the Group remains a going concern, including Reporting Council, the Directors are required to conduct consideration of the liquidity of its investment properties, a rigorous assessment of this basis of preparation.
the quantum of its cash holdings, cashflow forecasts, the due date for repayment of the Groups borrowing facilities and continued compliance with applicable loan covenants, and satisfied itself that the going concern basis of preparation remains appropriate.
28 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 29 respect to the management of their clients investments.
The effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the Managers group audit committee which receives regular reports from the Managers audit, risk and compliance department.
Procedures are in place to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and ensure that action would be taken to remedy any significant issues identied from this monitoring, which would be reported to the Board.
No significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company were identied in the year under review nor to the date of this report.
Since its appointment in July 2014, the depositary has provided quarterly reports to the Board and carries out daily independent checks on all cash and investment transactions and is liable for any loss of assets.
The review procedures detailed above have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only has provided reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
It has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Managers and the Company Secretary, including their internal audit functions and the work carried out by the Companys external auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
N J M Tostevin Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 April 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
