52 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board The Board is responsible to the Companys 30 September 2014 shareholders for the long-term success of the Group, its strategy, values and Chairman its governance.
The role of the Board Board: non-executive chairman, three executive directors and six non-executive directors The Board provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or through the Nominations Audit Chief Remuneration Board Risk and Committee Committee executive Committee Compliance Committee operation of committees of directors and delegated authority, applies independent judgement on matters of strategy, Executive performance, resources including key directors appointments and standards of behaviour.
The Board sets the Groups strategic objectives and approves and monitors Business Divisional Boards: Project Portfolio business plans and budgets submitted Operating Board Development Retirement Solutions Board Board UK Residential by the executive directors and senior Development management.
The written statement of Fund Management matters reserved to the Board is reviewed Germany and approved annually by the Board and a copy is available on the groups website www.
co. uk or from the LENGTH OF TENURE OF DIRECTORS company secretary on request.
AGM Feb 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The executive directors Robin Oversee the day-to-day running of the 3 years 8 years Broadhurst business, ensuring strategic coordination Andrew and alignment.
5 years 7 years 6 years Cunningham Nick 5 years The Project Portfolio Board Jopling Monitors and coordinates projects Mark 5 years across Grainger.
Greenwood John 12 years Barnsley The Operating Board Baroness Ensures that Graingers central support 7 years Margaret Ford functions and general operations are fitBelinda 4 years for-purpose and, where relevant, able to Richards provide Grainger with a potential source of Tony 3 years competitive advantage.
Wray Simon 2 years Davies The Business Development Board Supports the executive directors in Ian 1 Coull setting the overall strategic direction of the business and in identifying strategic Key: business development opportunities.
Chairman Executive directors CEO Deputy CEO Non-executive directors Strategic report Governance Financials 53 is available from the company secretary The directors on request.
The non-executive directors As at the date of this report the directors of the Company are: meet periodically without the executive Chairman Non-executive directors directors present.
There have been two Robin Broadhurst Baroness Margaret Ford senior independent director such meetings since 1 October 2013 and Executive directors John Barnsley an additional meeting of the non-executive Andrew Cunningham Belinda Richards directors without the chairman or the Mark Greenwood Tony Wray executive directors present where the Nick Jopling Simon Davies chairmans performance was discussed.
Ian Coull Senior independent director Ian Coull was appointed to the Board on 23 September 2014.
The senior independent director is available Peter Couch retired from the Board on 31 January 2014. to shareholders if they request a meeting or have concerns, which contact through Balance of directors the normal channels has failed to resolve 30 September 2014 or where such contact is inappropriate.
Chairman 1 No such requests were received from 1 3 1 3 2.
Executive dire 4ctors 3 4 shareholders during the year.
Non-executives 6 independent director leads the annual performance review of the chairman.
EFFECTIVENESS Meetings 5 5 There were six meetings of the Board in the year.
The Board has a list of matters Chairman and chief executive each of the divisional boards to review all reserved to it and a rolling annual plan of The posts of chairman and chief operational issues.
items for discussion, agreed between the executive are separate and their roles and chairman and the chief executive.
The list responsibilities are clearly established, Non-executive directors of reserved matters and annual plan are set out in writing and agreed by the The non-executive directors are responsible reviewed regularly to ensure all matters Board.
A copy of the written statement for bringing independent and objective reserved to the Board, as well as other key of roles is available on the Groups judgement and scrutiny to all matters issues, are discussed at the appropriate website, www.
co. uk, or before the Board and its committees, time.
At each board meeting the chief from the company secretary on request.
using their substantial and wide ranging executive provided a review of the business The chairman is responsible for running experience.
The key responsibilities of setting out how it was performing and the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
non-executive directors are set out in details of strategic issues arising.
In the year The chief executive reports to the chairman, their letters of appointment and include the range of subjects discussed included: as does the company secretary on matters requirements to: Strategy: of corporate governance.
The chairman Challenge and contribute to the is the guardian of the Boards decision Performance of business divisions: development of the Companys strategy: making and is responsible for ensuring a The Groups debt and capital structure constructive relationship between executive Scrutinise the performance of and hedging swaps policy: and non-executive directors and for management in meeting agreed goals fostering a culture of challenge and debate and objectives and monitor the reporting The Groups financial results: in the boardroom.
of performance: and to The chief executive is responsible for Dividend policy: Satisfy themselves that financial running the business and implementing Regulatory and governance issues: and information is accurate and that financial the Boards decisions.
He chairs a weekly controls and systems of risk management meeting with the other executive The development of the Groups people.
directors, both of whom report directly to him, and, together with the executive A copy of the standard letter of directors, holds monthly meetings with appointment for a non-executive director 54 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Three of the meetings were preceded, the Information flow of the senior management team in the The chairman, together with the company evening before, by an informal meeting Newcastle, London and Frankfurt offices.
allowing more time to debate issues secretary, ensures that the directors receive He was also shown some of the Companys clear information on all relevant matters in a in depth.
One meeting preceded the properties near each of these offices.
Companys strategy conference attended timely manner.
Board papers are circulated Training and updating in relation to sufficiently in advance of meetings for by members of the senior management the business of the Group and the legal team.
Two of the Board meetings were held them to be thoroughly digested to ensure and regulatory responsibilities of directors clarity of informed debate.
The Board at the Companys head office in Newcastle was provided throughout the year by upon Tyne, three in the Companys London papers contain the chief executives a variety of means to board members written report, high level papers on each office and one at its Wellesley development including presentations by executives, in Aldershot.
During the course of these business area, key metrics and specific visits to business operations and circulation papers relating to agenda items.
The Board meetings, the directors have heard of briefing materials.
Individual directors presentations from divisional directors on papers are accompanied by a management are also expected to take responsibility information pack containing detailed the following matters: for identifying their training needs and to Talent development financial and other supporting information.
ensure they are adequately informed about The Board receives a bi-weekly update from Strategic land the Group and their responsibilities as Future of regulated tenancies the chief executive throughout the year a director.
and occasional ad hoc papers on matters Future of home reversions The Board is confident that all its PRS strategic objectives of particular relevance or importance.
members have the knowledge, ability The Board also received presentations from and experience to perform the functions Attendance table various business units.
required of a director of a listed company.
Meetings Time commitment Access to independent advice Meetings eligible Executive directors attended to attend The Board is satisfied that the chairman All directors have access to the advice and Andrew Cunningham 6 6 and each of the non-executive directors services of the company secretary who committed sufficient time during the Peter Couch 1 1 ensures that Board processes are followed year to enable them to fulfil their duties and good corporate governance standards Nick Jopling 6 6 as directors of the company.
None of the are maintained.
Any director who considers Mark Greenwood 6 6 non-executive directors has any conflict of it necessary or appropriate may take interest that has not been disclosed to the independent, professional advice at the Meetings board in accordance with the Companys Companys expense.
None of the directors Meetings eligible articles of association.
sought such advice in the year.
Non-executive directors attended to attend Robin Broadhurst 6 6 Induction and professional development Performance evaluation John Barnsley 6 6 The chairman is responsible for ensuring The 2014 review was undertaken by Baroness Margaret Ford 5 6 that induction and training are provided to Advanced Boardroom Excellence ABE Belinda Richards 6 6 each director and the company secretary an independent firm of consultants who organises the induction process and regular specialises in Board performance and Tony Wray 6 6 updating and training of Board members.
corporate governance and which was Simon Davies 5 6 Ian Coull was appointed in the year appointed to undertake a thorough and received a comprehensive, tailored independent review of the Board and its Board committees induction to the company.
The process involved a review The Board has established four principal meeting with the company secretary to of information provided to the Board Board committees to which it has delegated go through the Board Handbook which and committees followed by confidential certain of its responsibilities.
They are includes sections on directors duties, interviews with the directors and the the Audit Committee, Remuneration corporate governance, Company policies company secretary, and observation of Committee, Nominations Committee and the use of the Companys electronic a Board meeting and meetings of the and the Board Risk and Compliance Board portal.
He also received briefings Remuneration, Audit, Risk and Nominations Committee.
The roles, membership and from the chief executive regarding committees.
The key findings and action activities of these committees are described Graingers business operations as well as points arising from ABEs report are in more detail later in the Corporate having individual sessions with members as follows: Governance statement.
Strategic report Governance Financials 55 Board Information and Succession and Debate Decision Making Development Plans Board Committees Culture and Relationships Findings The level of challenge NEDs were Board succession The committees were Directors expressed was good.
comfortable that has been and working effectively.
a high degree of There was nothing was being continues to be a Committee confidence in standards structures are of integrity and emphatically felt hidden and that they high priority activity.
to be no danger of would be given any Board succession revisited annually professionalism, led groupthink, given information they planning is well by the chairman by the chairman and the collection of asked for.
considered with and company chief executive.
secretary to review There was felt to be a strong personalities.
The chairman was good briefings and There is an air of praised for his role sounding out of the effectiveness strong sense of The robust challenge at in ensuring that major shareholders.
and composition of Grainger Way, praising the Grainger Board everyone had the The induction the committees.
Board members The Grainger Board and the majority opportunity to have of directors of directors were their say.
is reasonably engage in committee currently has good very positive about effective, but needs business and skills, experience and the quality of to be formally draw on their knowledge within its skills, experience, NED population and Board discussions.
documented and The Board needs to more structured.
knowledge and, NEDs are able to provide explore options for where appropriate, the appropriate level providing additional independence.
of challenge to the executive team.
external stimulus to the strategy debate.
The chief executive encouraged NEDs to have access to the wider executive team.
Action Chairman and CEO Adopt a consistent, Formally document Seek ways to to consider having focussed and the existing director continue to build points more presentations succinct approach induction process.
upon the current from external to format of exemplary work of professionals.
Review the decision making process to establish a more structured approach.
The Board and its committees will monitor progress and continue their critical review of its effectiveness during the year ahead.
In accordance with the prevailing provisions of the Code, it is the current intention of the Board that external facilitation of the Board evaluation will be carried out every three years.
Re-election of directors achieve business objectives entirely and can ACCOUNTABILITY Notwithstanding that the Companys Internal control only provide reasonable and not absolute articles of association require the directors assurance against material misstatement or The Board is responsible for reviewing and to offer themselves for re-election at least approving the Groups system of internal loss.
The Risk and Compliance Committee once every three years, in accordance with is delegated the task of reviewing all control and its adequacy and effectiveness.
the recommendations of the Code all of The Group has a cyclical process for identified risks, with the ultimate key risks the directors, with the exception of Robin retained for full board review.
The Audit identifying, assessing and managing its Broadhurst and John Barnsley who are significant risks, which has been in place Committee reports to the Board at every retiring from the Board, will be offering Board meeting.
Risks and controls are for the full year under review and up to themselves for re-election at the AGM in the date of approval of the Annual report reviewed to ensure effective management February 2015.
In light of the performance of appropriate strategic, financial, and accounts.
The process is designed to evaluations summarised above and the enable the Board to be confident that such operational and compliance issues.
provisions of the Companys articles of The Audit Committee also reviews the risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as association, the Board recommends that all possible.
It should be noted however, that half year and full year financial statements, of the directors be re-elected.
which includes the results of our associate no system can eliminate the risk of failure to 56 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED and joint ventures, which are subject to the risks relating to the business.
No significant Remuneration Committee, also met same internal controls as within the Group.
failings or weaknesses were identified from with the corporate governance officers In addition, the Group has an internal audit this review in the year.
of the Companys major shareholders in function that performs relevant reviews advance of the AGM where the keys issues as part of a programme approved by the Going concern discussed were the Companys policy for Audit Committee.
The committee considers The Group closely monitors its future directors remuneration and succession.
any issues or risks arising from internal anticipated cash flows and compliance The Groups website includes a specific and audit in order that appropriate actions with its banking covenants.
Based on comprehensive investor relations section, can be undertaken for their satisfactory these forecasts and the sensitivities which containing all RNS announcements, share resolution.
The internal audit manager has have been run on different scenarios the price information, annual documents a direct reporting line to the chairman of directors have a reasonable expectation available for download and similar the Audit Committee.
A detailed annual that the Group and Company have materials.
All the directors intend to be in budget is produced each year, together adequate resources to continue in existence attendance at the AGM in February 2015 with longer-term projections in accordance for the foreseeable future.
For this reason and to be available to answer questions.
with the agreed strategy, which are they continue to adopt the going concern All shareholders have the opportunity to presented to the Board for consideration basis in preparing the accounts.
attend the AGM, which continues as a and approval.
A fundamental part of the route for communication with smaller and control process is the diligent monitoring Relations with shareholders private shareholders.
of actual performance against this budget The Company has held more than The notice of meeting and Annual by the Board.
Where applicable, revisions 100 meetings with shareholders, report and accounts are sent out at least are made to expected out-turn against analysts and potential investors in the 20 working days before the meeting.
which further progress can be monitored.
year in addition to the usual half-yearly Separate votes are held for each proposed A detailed monthly management results announcements and briefings.
resolution, including the approval of information pack is prepared which covers Andrew Cunningham and Mark the Remuneration Committee report, each major area of the business and that Greenwood, chief executive and finance and a proxy count is given in each includes detailed consolidated results and director respectively, have had the vast case after the voting on a show of financial information for the business as a majority of these meetings and manage the hands.
Grainger includes, as standard, whole.
The performance of each business Groups investor relations programme with a vote withheld category, in line with area is reviewed monthly by both divisional the head of corporate affairs.
Some of the best practice.
management and the executive directors key issues raised were the strong growth Shareholders are also able to lodge and is subsequently reported to the Board.
in values in the UK property portfolios, their votes through the CREST system.
The Board also discusses in detail Graingers view on the likely future growth the projected financial impact of major in UK HPI and the growing importance Substantial shareholdings proposed acquisitions and disposals, of the PRS and the role that Grainger As at 30 September 2014 and 31 October including their financing.
All such proposed can play in it.
Feedback is always sought 2014 being the latest practicable date prior substantial investments are considered following such meetings and this feedback to the date of this report, the Company is by all directors.
Where meetings are is presented to the Board.
aware of the following interests amounting required between Board meetings and The chairman, company secretary, to 3% or more in the Companys shares: a full complement of directors cannot and Baroness Ford, the chairman of the be achieved, a committee of directors considers the necessary formalities.
30 September 2014 31 October 2014 The Board is also responsible for reviewing Holding Holding Holding Holding million % million % and approving the Groups treasury Schroder Investment Management Ltd strategy, including mitigation against changes in interest rates.
The Groups with voting rights 73.7 17.6 71.2 17.1 processes for internal control have been in without voting rights 12.9 3.1 13.6 3.2 place throughout the year and accord with BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 27.7 6.6 31.8 7.6 the Turnbull guidelines 2005.
The Board Henderson Global Investors 14.9 3.6 14.9 3.6 regularly reviews the Groups processes Aberforth Partners 13.0 3.1 13.0 3.1 for internal control and conducts a formal State Street Global Advisers Ltd 12.9 3.1 13.1 3.1 annual review of these processes and the
