Strategic report Governance Financials 57 ATTENDANCE TABLE Audit Member Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member since attended to attend Committee Belinda Richards April 2011 4 4 Committee chairman John Barnsley February 2003 4 4 report Baroness Margaret Ford July 2008 4 4 Tony Wray November 2011 4 4 Both John Barnsley and Belinda Richards have recent and relevant financial experience as The Audit Committee required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
currently comprises four independent Committee meetings To make recommendations to the Board non-executive directors.
The Committee met four times during in relation to the appointment and Belinda Richards the year.
The meetings were attended by removal of the external auditors and to Committee chairman the Committee members, the company approve their remuneration and terms secretary and, by invitation, the finance of engagement.
director, representatives from the external To review and monitor the external auditors and the internal audit manager.
auditors independence and objectivity Once a year, the Committee meets and the effectiveness of the audit separately with the external auditors and process, taking into consideration with management without the other being relevant UK professional and present.
The chairman of the Committee regulatory requirements.
has regular quarterly meetings with the internal audit manager.
To develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor Role and responsibilities to supply non-audit services, taking Monitoring the integrity of the annual into account relevant ethical guidance and interim financial statements, the regarding the provision of non-audit accompanying reports to shareholders services by the external audit firm, and and corporate governance statements.
to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers Reporting to the Board on the that action or improvement is needed appropriateness of the Groups and making recommendations as the accounting policies and practices.
In conjunction with the Board Risk To report to the Board on how it has and Compliance Committee reviewing discharged its responsibilities.
and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and To oversee the whistleblowing provisions risk management systems, including of the group and to ensure they are reviewing the process for identifying, operating effectively.
assessing and reporting all key risks.
Managing the internal audit function and approving their terms of reference and their forward audit plan.
58 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Activities of the Committee Significant areas External audit Reviewed and discussed with the The significant areas considered by the The Groups current external auditors are external auditors the key accounting Committee and discussed with the external  LLP.
The Audit considerations and judgements reflected auditors during the year were: Committee is responsible for reviewing in the Groups results for the six month the independence and objectivity of the period ending 31 March 2014.
Property valuations: we received reports external auditors, and ensuring this is from management on the assumptions safeguarded notwithstanding any provision Reviewed and agreed the external to be used in valuing the Groups of any other services to the Group.
auditors audit strategy memorandum in property assets.
In considering the The Board recognises the importance of advance of their audit for the year ending proposals we reviewed the valuations 30 September 2014. safeguarding auditor objectivity and has and, for reversionary assets, the taken the following steps to ensure that suggested discount rates provided by Discussed the report received from the auditor independence is not compromised: the external valuers, and confirmed that external auditors regarding their audit in The Audit Committee carries out each the external valuers were sufficiently respect of the year ending 30 September year a full evaluation of the external independent from the Group.
2014, which report included comments auditor as to its complete independence Managements recommendations in on their findings on internal control from the Group and relevant officers relation to the directors valuations were and a statement on their independence of the Group in all material respects scrutinised against external evidence and objectivity.
and that it is adequately resourced and the verification work completed by and technically capable to deliver Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing the external valuers.
We were content an objective audit to shareholders.
policy and satisfied itself that this met after due challenge and debate with the Based on this review the Audit FCA rules and good standards of assumptions and judgements applied.
Committee recommends to the Board corporate governance.
each year the continuation, or removal Valuation of derivatives: throughout Reviewed and agreed the forward the period we reviewed accounting and replacement, of the external auditor.
internal audit plans and monitored papers in relation to the management The external auditors provide auditthe progress against those plans at of the Groups derivatives, including the related services such as regulatory each meeting.
impact of swap cancellations and any and statutory reporting as well as hedge ineffectiveness.
Formalised and agreed the scope, delivery formalities relating to shareholders and and implementation of the Group wide Presumed risk of fraud in revenue other circulars.
recognition by overstatement and The external auditors may undertake due management override of controls: the Received reports from internal audit diligence reviews and provide assistance committee considered the presumed risks covering various aspects of the Groups on tax and pension matters given its of fraud as defined by auditing standards operations, controls and processes in knowledge of the Groups businesses.
and was content that there were no both the UK and Germany.
Such provision will however be assessed issues arising.
on a case-by-case basis so that the best Reviewed and approved the register of Considered the accounting treatment placed adviser is retained.
The Audit non-audit assignments undertaken by of substantial transactions including Committee monitors the application of the external auditors in the year ending any judgemental areas.
This included policy in this regard and keeps the policy 30 September 2014. the sale of the home reversion portfolio under review.
Organised the audit tender process see to Clifden Holdings Limited in January The Audit Committee reviews on a section below.
2014, and the recoverability of any regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all outstanding consideration.
Reviewed the Audit Committees terms consultancy fees, with a view to assessing of reference.
reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and any independence issues that may Financial statements: Considered have arisen or may potentially arise in the presentation of the financial the future.
statements, and in particular, the analysis between recurring and nonrecurring items.
We were satisfied with managements presentation.
Strategic report Governance Financials 59 The external auditors report to the Audit tender process Internal Audit directors and the Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee Internal Audit undertake audits across confirming their independence in determined to undertake a competitive Grainger using a risk based methodology accordance with Auditing Standards.
Ten firms were considered, and in accordance with the changing risk In addition to the steps taken by the including  LLP, our profile of the Company.
Individual audits Board to safeguard auditor objectivity, incumbent auditors, that were assessed are supported as appropriate by specialist  LLP against predetermined criteria agreed by skills and subject matter expertise.
Audits operates a five-year rotation policy for the Audit Committee.
Having assessed are identified during an annual audit audit partners.
these firms a short list of three firms was planning cycle, which is informed by the selected.
Whilst  results of current and previous audit testing, Different teams are utilised on all other LLP declined to join the tender process the Companys strategy and performance, assignments undertaken by the auditors.
there were no reasons that needed to be the risk management process and the plans Before any such assignments can brought to the attention of shareholders.
commence teams must obtain approval All three firms met the chief executive, Additional audits are identified during of the Audit Committee.
This approval the chairman of the Audit Committee, the year in response to changing priorities confirms that sufficient and appropriate the executive directors and key senior and requirements.
safeguards are put in place to ensure that managers within the business and were All Internal Audit findings are auditor independence is retained.
given access to an electronic data room graded, appropriate remedial actions, with all relevant company information.
responsibilities and timescales are agreed The Audit Committee give careful The three firms then made consideration before appointing the with management, and progress monitored presentations to the Audit Committee and reported.
auditors to provide other services.
panel, which presentations were scored The Group regularly use other providers to Internal Audits plans and resources against pre-set parameters.
At the are considered and monitored by the Audit ensure that independence and full value conclusion of this process it was agreed for money are achieved.
Other services Committee, together with all internal that KPMG LLP were the panels preferred control findings and remedial actions.
are generally limited to work that is closely choice and that the committee would related to the annual audit or where the Internal Audit have a direct reporting line recommend to the main Board that KPMG to the Chair of the Audit Committee.
The work is of such a nature that a detailed LLP be appointed as the Companys understanding of the business is necessary.
effectiveness of internal audit is assessed auditor for the year ending 30 September by review of their reports, meetings  LLP 2015.
The Board subsequently ratified have remained in place as auditors with the Head of Internal Audit without this recommendation.
The appointment management being present and holding for a considerable number of years.
of KPMG LLP will be recommended to Their performance is reviewed annually by separate meetings with the finance director shareholders for approval at the 2015 to assess his views on their effectiveness.
As part of its review the Annual General Meeting.
Committee notes that the Group Audit Partner was rotated in 2012 During the year, 76,000 was paid by the group to  LLP for taxation services.
A further 74,000 was paid for other services, which was made up of payments relating to comfort letters on the prospectus to be issued relating to the bond issuance on the Irish Stock Exchange, as well as work over the systems migration.
