76 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance ATTENDANCE TABLE Board Member Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member since attended to attend Risk and Tony Wray May 2012 4 4 Committee Chairman John Barnsley May 2012 4 4 Compliance Belinda Richards May 2012 4 4 Mark Greenwood May 2012 4 4 Committee Simon Davies February 2013 4 4 report The Committee met four times during The Retirement Solutions business is the year.
The meetings were attended by regulated by the FCA.
The Committee the Committee members, the company oversees compliance with regulatory secretary and by invitation, the Groups obligations and receives regular updates on The Board Risk and risk and compliance manager, the proposed future regulatory developments.
Compliance Committee group general counsel and the internal The effectiveness of the Committee audit manager.
was reviewed as part of the overall currently comprise four The Committee operates a forward independent Board evaluation process.
At each meeting, the The culture of risk awareness, and Committee reviews the quarterly risk and effective risk management through the directors and one executive compliance report prepared by the risk further development of the risk assurance director.
and compliance manager together with framework, continues to become more the quarterly complaints and Top Risk embedded in the way that Grainger Tony Wray and Projects reports.
The Committee also thinks and operates at all levels within Committee chairman regularly discusses emerging risks.
This focus will be critical in Other areas reviewed in the last protecting our outstanding reputation in year include risks associated with block the market as we move forward.
management, the supply chain and core systems review projects together with risk briefings prepared by departmental managers.
These briefings included reports on people risk and the embedding of risk management, business continuity planning, the project management capability within the business and a legal and regulatory update.
The purpose of these briefings is to provide the Committee with a more comprehensive insight into the principal risks and processes within the Group and ensure that the risk mitigation plans are robust.
