48 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction The continuing development of existing What does systems and controls balanced with the grant of appropriate discretion Corporate to our staff is the key to successfully establishing the accountability and responsibility of the whole Grainger team.
Governance mean Excellent communications, together with a team approach promoting a culture of selfdiscipline, is infinitely superior to the issuing to Grainger?
Within this context, the Boards job is to exercise judgement in all matters of leadership, governance and risk to The Board of the Company is create confidence within the Company committed to providing effective and ensure that its reputation for its leadership and promoting the commercial, profit driven approach with integrity is understood by all the highest standards.
At our core, Companys stakeholders.
the relationship we have with From my perspective as chairman of Grainger, good governance means having our many thousands of tenants a diverse, strong and robust Board that is the foundation on which our constructively challenges the executive directors, but is supportive in helping reputation depends.
them implement the agreed strategy of the Company.
Robin Broadhurst The culture of the Board is based on Non-executive chairman mutual respect for each of its members and promotes a free flowing dialogue, with me, as chairman, encouraging participation by every member.
It needs to be purposeful but sufficiently relaxed to be conducive to making good decisions with a consensus.
I find that the best test of success is that when each meeting is concluded every participant feels that the process was not long winded and adequate time was spent on the key areas for debate resulting in unanimous agreement.
In addition to our usual Board meetings, the Board met in May 2014 for a strategy discussion facilitated by an external independent adviser.
The proposed strategy was developed further in June 2014 with the involvement of approximately 40 members of Graingers senior management team.
This process provided useful feedback in helping develop the Companys five year strategy and the budget for the forthcoming financial year.
Strategic report Governance Financials 49 Details of the agreed strategy are set out Composition and independence As at 30 September 2014, the Grainger within the Strategic Report on pages 2 The Board reviews non-executive director Board had two female non-executive to 47. independence on an annual basis and takes directors, Baroness Margaret Ford and I will be stepping down as chairman into account the individuals professional Belinda Richards, representing 20% of and as a director at the Companys AGM characteristics, their behaviour at Board Board membership.
Margaret and Belinda in February 2015 when John Barnsley, who meetings and their contribution to unbiased bring invaluable skills to the composition has been a huge asset to the Board over and independent debate.
All of the nonof the board, and as and when board the last twelve years will also be stepping executive directors are considered by the appointments arise, we will look to follow down.
In order to retain stability and to Board to be independent.
the procedures recommended by the ensure ongoing continuity during this We are aware that, for some investors, Davies Report and by the Code to maintain transition, various changes to the Board length of non-executive directors service a balanced Board.
Committees were made to smooth this beyond nine years will prejudice their process.
Both myself and John Barnsley independence.
John Barnsley has served Board evaluation stepped down from the Nominations on the Board since February 2003.
This year, an independent evaluation of Committee in February 2014 and were The Board and myself believe that John the Grainger Board was carried out by replaced by Belinda Richards and Tony Barnsley has always exercised a degree of Advanced Boardroom Excellence following Wray with Baroness Margaret Ford rigorous enquiry and intellectual challenge on from the internal assessments, led by replacing myself as chairman of the in respect of his role as non-executive myself, undertaken in 2012 and 2013. committee.
At the same time Margaret director and as such continue to regard The report indicated that the Board came also replaced John Barnsley as senior him as independent.
His continuity of out well in overall effectiveness with independent director and she has led the service has been of considerable benefit particular strengths in challenge and full external process to find directors to to the Company through a period of debate, Board committees and quality replace John and myself.
Ian Coull joined significant change in both the executive of Board discussions.
Areas for potential the Board on 23 September 2014 as a and non-executive directors and has development were board information, the non-executive director and subject to his provided an important knowledge link with decision making process and succession re-election as a director at the AGM in the past and an in-depth understanding and development plans.
Further details are February 2015 will take over from me as of the Company that is considered to be available on pages 54 and 55. chairman at the conclusion of that meeting.
highly beneficial to the board.
Further, Andrew Carr-Locke will be joining the this enhanced duration of service is Shareholder engagement Board in February 2015. complementary to the longer term The Board regards it as important business cycle applicable to the Grainger to maintain an active dialogue with Compliance with the UK Corporate business model.
Governance Code The Board consisted of a majority Andrew Cunningham, the chief The governance rules applicable to all UK of independent non-executive directors executive, and Mark Greenwood, the companies admitted to the Official List excluding the chairman throughout finance director, had regular meetings with of the UK Listing Authority are set out the year.
the companys shareholders and analysts in the UK Corporate Governance Code Biographical details of all the current while myself and Baroness Margaret the Code, published by the Financial directors are set out on pages 50 and 51.
Ford met with the corporate governance Reporting Council.
The Board fully supports In accordance with the UK Corporate representatives of our major shareholders in the principles set out in the Code and Governance Code, all the directors, with advance of the Annual General Meeting in confirms that it has complied with all of the exception of myself and John Barnsley February 2014. the provisions of the Code throughout the who are retiring from the Board, will stand Further details regarding our financial year ended 30 September 2014. for re-election at the AGM.
engagement with our shareholders are set This report sets out Graingers out on page 56 governance policies and practices and Diversity Robin Broadhurst includes details of how the Group applies Grainger believes that a diverse culture Non-executive chairman the principles and complies with the is a key factor in driving its success, and supports the Davies Reports aspiration to provisions of the Code.
promote greater female representation on listed company boards.
