60 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance ATTENDANCE TABLE Nominations Member Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member since attended to attend 1 Committee Baroness Margaret Ford February 2002 3 3 Committee chairman 1 Robin Broadhurst February 2005 1 1 report 2 John Barnsley February 2011 1 1 Belinda Richards February 2014 2 2 Tony Wray February 2014 2 2 The Nominations 1 Baroness Margaret Ford became chairman of the Committee in February 2014 when Robin Broadhurst retired from the Committee.
Committee currently 2 John Barnsley retired from the Committee in February 2014. comprises Key responsibilities Board composition and membership of Board threeindependent The key responsibilities of the Committee Committees non-executive directors.
are to: Reviewed the composition of the Review the size, balance and Board including the range of skills, level Baroness Margaret Ford Committee chairman constitution of the Board including of experience and balance between the diversity and balance of skills, executive and non-executive directors.
knowledge and experience of the nonReviewed the membership of the various executive directors.
Consider succession planning for directors Following its review in November 2013 and other senior executives.
it was agreed that, with effect from the Identify and nominate for the AGM in February 2014, Robin Broadhurst approval of the Board candidates to fill and John Barnsley would stand down Board vacancies.
from the Nominations Committee and be replaced by Belinda Richards and Tony Review annually the time commitment Wray.
Baroness Margaret Ford would required of non-executive directors.
succeed Robin Broadhurst as the chairman of the committee.
After reviewing the Make recommendations for the Board, membership of the Audit, Risk and in consultation with the respective Remuneration Committees and noting that committee chairmen regarding they were all working well it was agreed membership of the Audit, Remuneration that the memberships of those committees and Risk and Compliance committees.
Main activities of the committee Senior independent director duringtheyear Having considered the composition of The Committee met formally three times the Board and its committees and after during the year to 30 September 2014. consultation with major shareholders, it was agreed that Baroness Margaret Ford should replace John Barnsley as senior independent director after the AGM in February 2014 which would allow her to lead the process to appoint the non executive directors to replace Robin Broadhurst and John Barnsley who were scheduled to retire from the Board after the AGM in February 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financials 61 Appointments to the Board Non-Executive Director As John Barnsley will be retiring from Chairman the Board in February 2015 Zygos were The Nominations Committee oversaw also commissioned to search for a nonthe selection process of Ian Coull as executive director to join the Board in chairman with effect from the AGM in February 2015.
February 2015 and his appointment as a The Committee indicated that the non-executive director with effect from candidate brief was for someone September 2014. with strong recent and relevant The Zygos Partnership were appointed financial experience.
as advisers to the Committee and were A shortlist of four candidates was agreed asked to compile a long list of potential from the initial long list of potential candidates.
Zygos have worked previously candidates identified by Zygos.
with the Board on other non-executive and executive appointments and Having interviewed all short listed do not provide any other services to candidates the Committee then met the Company.
formally to discuss the candidates.
The unanimous recommendation of the The Committee determined that the committee to the Board following this candidate brief was for a successful meeting was that Andrew Carr-Locke be business leader in the property or related appointed as a non-executive director sector, with main Board experience and from February 2015. strong credentials in strategy and driving business growth.
A shortlist of three candidates was agreed by the Committee, all of whom were then interviewed by the Committee chairman and each member of the committee.
The chief executive was also involved in the interview process and the HR director attended all of the interviews.
The Committee then met formally to discuss the candidates.
The unanimous recommendation of the Committee to the Board following this meeting was that Ian Coull be appointed as a nonexecutive director from September 2014.
After the AGM in February 2015 Ian Coull will take over as chairman of the Board when Robin Broadhurst retires and will replace Margaret Ford as chairman of Nominations Committee.
