48 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction The continuing development of existing What does systems and controls balanced with the grant of appropriate discretion Corporate to our staff is the key to successfully establishing the accountability and responsibility of the whole Grainger team.
Governance mean Excellent communications, together with a team approach promoting a culture of selfdiscipline, is infinitely superior to the issuing to Grainger?
Within this context, the Boards job is to exercise judgement in all matters of leadership, governance and risk to The Board of the Company is create confidence within the Company committed to providing effective and ensure that its reputation for its leadership and promoting the commercial, profit driven approach with integrity is understood by all the highest standards.
At our core, Companys stakeholders.
the relationship we have with From my perspective as chairman of Grainger, good governance means having our many thousands of tenants a diverse, strong and robust Board that is the foundation on which our constructively challenges the executive directors, but is supportive in helping reputation depends.
them implement the agreed strategy of the Company.
Robin Broadhurst The culture of the Board is based on Non-executive chairman mutual respect for each of its members and promotes a free flowing dialogue, with me, as chairman, encouraging participation by every member.
It needs to be purposeful but sufficiently relaxed to be conducive to making good decisions with a consensus.
I find that the best test of success is that when each meeting is concluded every participant feels that the process was not long winded and adequate time was spent on the key areas for debate resulting in unanimous agreement.
In addition to our usual Board meetings, the Board met in May 2014 for a strategy discussion facilitated by an external independent adviser.
The proposed strategy was developed further in June 2014 with the involvement of approximately 40 members of Graingers senior management team.
This process provided useful feedback in helping develop the Companys five year strategy and the budget for the forthcoming financial year.
