Governance Corporate governance statement Audit Committee report Audit Committee report I am pleased to have been appointed as Chair to the Audit Committee of KWE at this exciting time in its development.
I am looking forward to working with and leading the newly established Audit Committee which was put into place upon listing.
The report below provides details of the Audit Committee and Simon Radford its activities.
Audit Committee Chair 13 March 2015 Committee membership and attendance The Committees purpose during the period Our primary role is to monitor the integrity of the financial Our Audit Committee members are Charlotte Valeur, reporting of the Company and review the financial Mark McNicholas and Simon Radford.
The Audit results to consider the appointment, independence Committee is chaired by me, Simon Radford.
I am a and remuneration of the auditors, and to undertake chartered accountant in England and Wales and I am regular reviews of the key control and risk procedures deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant adopted by the Group, the Investment Manager and financial experience for the purposes of the Codes.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee also Detailed biographies of the Committee members are serves the role of a risk committee.
The Committees other responsibilities We meet formally at least three times a year.
For the In addition to the principal duties set out on page 51, period under review, we have held five meetings we are responsible for: of the Audit Committee and our attendance is shown Assessing the effectiveness of the Company's in this table.
financial reporting procedures Reviewing the adequacy and soundness of Member Attendance procedures adopted by the Company and the Simon Radford 5 5 Investment Manager for preventing and detecting Mark McNicholas 5 5 fraud, and the adequacy and soundness of the Charlotte Valeur 5 5 Company's and the Investment Manager's systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and antiCrestbridge Fund Administrators Limited attends money laundering all our meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
In addition, we invite William McMorrow, Mary Ricks, The Committees focus during the period other representatives of the Investment Manager and These are the main matters we discussed at its investment advisers, our Board apprentice and our our meetings: external auditor to attend as required.
The detailed review of the content, tone and format The Committees terms of reference of the annual and half-year press releases, financial Our full terms of reference, explaining our role reports including the annual report and accounts, and the authority delegated to us by the Board as well as the quarterly trading updates released by are available on the KWE website.
the Company, and making recommendations to the Board for approval Go to www.
eu 60 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Audit Committee report The review and approval of the annual audit plan of rental growth and yield movement and, at the same time, the external auditor, and approval of the fee for the challenging the assumptions and judgements made by external audit the valuers.
The external auditors had discussions with the independent valuers separately from the Audit Committee, Discussion of reports from the external auditor using real estate specialists where appropriate, and have following their audit provided the Audit Committee with a summary of their The assessment of the effectiveness of the external review as part of their report on the half year and period audit process, as described below end results.
For details of the Groups properties and related accounting policies see Notes 3J, 5A and 14 of the The review and consideration of the Companys key financial statements.
risks, internal control policies and procedures in its first year of operations.
The principal risks and uncertainties Although going concern is a matter for the whole facing the Company are set out on pages 38 to 41 Board, see page 69, a review of the Groups headroom The need for an internal audit function specific to the under its covenants and undrawn facilities in relation to Company Groups financial forecasts and sensitivity analyses was also conducted.
Acquisitions, disposals and revenue The Companys tax framework, structure and risks recognition from significant lease transactions were also The appointment of third party valuers and approval of considered to the extent that there are any unusual terms the valuation reports and conditions or judgements made in relation to timing.
The regulatory solvency requirements relating to the Another significant issue specifically reviewed by the declaration and payment of quarterly dividend Audit Committee for the period ended 31 December 2014 Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its was the acquisition of investment properties, land and responsibilities buildings and loans secured by real estate, in the context of reviewing analysing and discussing the complexities Financial reporting and significant judgements in acquisition agreements entered into by the Group and During the period under review, we monitored the their treatment under the relevant accounting standards.
integrity of the financial information published in the Accounting for IPO costs and secondary issue costs was interim and annual financial statements as well as another area considered by the Audit Committee.
quarterly updates and considered the extent to which suitable accounting policies have been adopted, presented Conclusions in respect of the Companys and disclosed.
In assessing this, the Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts receives and considers reports from the Investment The production and the audit of the Companys Annual Manager, the audit strategy and focus of the external Report is a comprehensive process requiring input auditor and the methodology adopted by the valuers.
from a number of different contributors.
In order to Taking into account information from these activities, we reach a conclusion on whether the Companys financial considered whether the Investment Manager has made statements are fair, balanced and understandable, as suitable and appropriate estimates and judgements.
In required under the Codes, the Board requested that we addition, we assessed the independence, objectivity and advise on whether we consider that the Annual Report competence of our valuers.
In outlining our advice, we have considered the following: As the valuation of the Groups portfolio is fundamental to The comprehensive documentation that is in place the Groups balance sheet, the Audit Committee invited outlining the controls in place for the production of the the independent valuers along with the auditors to discuss Annual Report, including the verification processes in the valuations included within the half year and period place to confirm the factual content end financial statements.
This included a rigorous review of the valuation process undertaken, changes in market The detailed reviews undertaken at various stages of conditions and recent transactions in the market and the production process by the Investment Manager, how these have impacted upon the third party valuations, Administrator, auditors and ourselves, that are valuation movements on individual properties and the intended to ensure consistency and overall balance independent valuers expectations in relation to future Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Governance Corporate governance statement Audit Committee report In addition, we have had discussions with our We do not consider it necessary to require our external Administrator in connection with the preparation of auditor to tender for the audit work at this time, although satisfactory controls report for the period ended 31 we will review this matter annually.
During the period under December 2014 which would outline the compliance and review, KPMG was retained to provide non-audit reporting control procedures in place at the Administrator, and how accountancy services in relation to the capital markets they link with those of the Company and the Investment transaction in October 2014.
KPMG was also retained to Manager.
The effectiveness of such internal controls will carry out certain tax, structuring and due diligence services be independently verified during the forthcoming period.
For the period ended 31 December 2014, KPMG was paid a fee of approximately As a result of the work performed, we have concluded and 0.5 million relating to audit and audit related assurance reported to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts services rendered to the Group, and a fee of approximately for the period ended 31 December 2014, taken as a whole, 1.5 million relating to non-audit services, primarily relating is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the to the provision of tax and transaction advisory services in information necessary for our shareholders to assess the connection with acquisitions made by the Group.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in the As a Committee, we have reviewed the provision of nonDirectors statement of responsibilities on page 72. audit services and believe them to be cost-effective and not an impediment to our external auditors objectivity External audit and independence.
It is the Companys practice to KPMG provides audit services to the Group.
The annual employ KPMG on assignments which are additional to report and accounts have been prepared in accordance their statutory audit duties, where their expertise and with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Since the fees charged by experience with the Company are important, principally the auditor will depend on the services provided and the tax, compliance and transaction matters, or where they time spent by the auditor on the affairs of the Group, there have been awarded assignments on a competitive basis.
is no maximum amount payable to the auditor, although the Board continually keeps the auditors fees under review Internal audit and benchmarks against the fees paid by its peers.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys business model and in particular the external KPMG were appointed as the external auditor to the management structure which it has put in place Company and its subsidiaries during the financial period.
Considering the brief No formal tender process was initiated in KPMGs period of operation of the Company and the nature, appointment.
KPMG also provides audit services to the scale, complexity and range of operations of the Investment Managers group.
Company, an internal audit function specific to the Company is considered by the Audit Committee to be To maintain audit quality and provide comfort on the unnecessary at this stage.
The Audit Committee will integrity of financial reporting, we reviewed, challenged review this matter annually in accordance with the and approved the annual audit plan of our external auditor.
UK Code and will regularly reconsider its position on We ensured that the audit work focused on matters these matters.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the we considered to be important, by virtue of their size, Companys risk management framework, its policies potential impact, complexity and level of judgement.
for preventing or detecting fraud, as well as the code of ethics, and ensured that the Company has systems We are responsible for the evaluation of our external and procedures in place to safeguard compliance with auditors and for communicating the results of this relevant regulatory and legal requirements.
In doing so we considered a range of factors including the quality of service, our The Committees effectiveness external auditors specialist expertise, the level of audit The recent evaluation reflected that we are in a phase fee, and independence.
We have evaluated the work of development, having only had a brief period since completed by our external auditor in the period to 31 our formation.
Despite this, it was noted that valuable December 2014, taking into account the fees paid work and progress had been made in our areas of to KPMG, and are satisfied with their effectiveness, responsibility.
62 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
