Governance Corporate governance statement Leadership Leadership The Board and its responsibilities In carrying out our duties as a Board, we are The Board has five Directors, all of whom are committed to maintaining a good understanding of the non-executive, and together, we have overall views of our shareholders and we attach considerable responsibility for setting the Group's strategic importance to communicating with them.
aims and maximising the Companys success.
We do this by directing and supervising the affairs Board meetings and attendance of the business, overseeing implementation of our There are no specific requirements for the strategy and investment policy by the Investment frequency or timing of meetings of the Board.
We Manager and meeting the appropriate interests of meet at least four times in each calendar year and our shareholders and relevant stakeholders, whilst hold additional ad hoc meetings as required.
All enhancing the value of the Company and ensuring our Directors are given full and timely access to our investors are protected.
the information necessary to assist them in the performance of their duties.
The ad hoc meetings The Company has entered into an Investment are generally called to approve specific transactions Management Agreement IMA with KW Investment such as those involving a conflict of interest with Management Ltd, which is described more fully on the Investment Manager or capital raisings and page 128.
Under the IMA, the Investment Manager frequently involve a quorate sub-committee of the is responsible for the risk and portfolio management Board, which is appointed as necessary.
of the Companys assets, and has full discretionary authority to enter into transactions for and on behalf This table opposite shows our Directors attendance of the Company, except for matters involving a at the Board and Committee meetings held during conflict of interest, which require the formal consent the period from incorporation to 31 December 2014. of our independent Non-Executive Directors.
We also meet at least once a year at a formal Our core responsibilities as a Board are set out planning session to discuss the Companys investment strategy and vision, as well as the below: pipeline in the Groups target market.
The first of Determination of the investment policy.
The such strategy and planning meeting was held in Companys investment policy is set out on page February 2015.
125 to page 127 of this report Crestbridge Fund Administrators Limited, as our Overseeing the performance of the Investment Company Secretary and Administrator, attend all our Manager and other service providers Board meetings.
We also invite representatives of Reviewing the performance of the Groups the Investment Manager, certain external service portfolio as well as the Groups activities, suppliers and our Board apprentice to attend as including its investment decisions required.
Further details about the Board apprentice programme are set out on page 58.
Statutory obligations and public disclosure Strategic matters and financial reporting Risk assessment and management including reporting, compliance, governance, monitoring and control Other matters having a material effect on the Group 48 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Leadership Attendance at Board and committee meetings Board committees Management Director Board Audit Nomination Engagement Charlotte Valeur 12 17 5 5 1 1 1 1 1 - - - William McMorrow 10 14 Mark McNicholas 16 17 5 5 1 1 1 1 1 Simon Radford 13 14 5 5 - 1 1 1 2 Mary Ricks 10 14 2 5 1 1 - The Board agenda At our quarterly meetings, the Board follows a Update on shareholder and investor formal agenda.
This agenda includes, amongst other communications, corporate brokers and things: broker reports, review of the free float and the shareholder profile Investment Managers report for the period, including a review of the performance of the Discussion of the principal risks and investments, an assessment of the progress of uncertainties facing the Group and its business new investment opportunities, valuations for the Share price discount and premium management investment portfolio, peer group information, and industry issues Recommendations and updates from the Board Committees and the Administrator, with a review Financial results and cash flow forecasts, of policies and procedures, a compliance report including dividends declared and dividend cover and an update on legislative regulatory obligations Notes 1.
In total, 17 Board meetings have been held since incorporation and 14 Board meetings have been held since the IPO 2.
As observer Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Governance Corporate governance statement Leadership Board Committees and the governance structure Since the Companys IPO in February 2014, We regularly review the governance framework we have worked hard to implement all the to monitor and test its effectiveness in managing relevant procedures required by the Codes and and controlling the business and as a Board, we other applicable legislation and regulation.
Our regularly consider if any enhancements are required governance framework is summarised below, to meet the changing nature and environment in including the committees established by the Board.
Nomination Board Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Committee Management Audit Committee Engagement Committee Investment Manager Administrator & Company Secretary Auditor KW Investment Management Ltd Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd KPMG Key external service suppliers Investment Advisers KW Europe KW UK Control KW Espaa Accountability KW Europe Investment Committee 50 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Leadership We have established an Audit Committee The Nomination Committees other duties include: which also fulfils the role of a risk committee, Regularly reviewing the Board structure, size and a Nomination Committee and a Management composition Engagement Committee with formally delegated duties and responsibilities and written terms of To make recommendations to the Board reference, which have been approved by the Board.
concerning any matters relating to the The Board will review the membership and chairing continuation in office of any Director at any of each committee at least once every three years.
time including the suspension or termination of service of that Director Audit Committee To make a statement in the Annual Report about The principal duties of our Audit Committee are: its activities To consider the appointment of external auditors To discuss and agree with the external auditors Management Engagement Committee the nature and scope of the audit We have also established a Management Engagement Committee.
Its primary purpose To keep under review the scope, results and cost is to review the performance of and contractual effectiveness of the audit and the independence arrangements with the Investment Manager and and objectivity of the auditors the evaluation of the fee payable to the Investment To review the external auditors letter of Manager in connection with its services to the engagement and management representation Company.
In addition, it is also responsible for letters and make recommendations to the Board evaluation of the performance of and adequacy of contractual arrangements with all other third party To undertake regular reviews of the key internal service providers other than our external auditors.
control and risk procedures adopted by the Group and how they link with the systems and Remuneration Committee controls put in place by the Investment Manager As the Company has no executive officers, we have and Administrator not established a separate Remuneration Committee.
The Board is satisfied that any relevant issues that To monitor regularly the requirement for an arise in connection with the fee payable to the internal audit function independent Non-Executive Directors can be properly To monitor the integrity of the financial considered by the Board as whole.
No Director statements and reviewing significant financial will participate in the decision-making process reporting judgements contained in them concerned with the setting of his her own individual fee.
As a consequence, the Board, as a whole, is To review the key internal control and responsible for discussions and decisions regarding compliance procedures adopted by the remuneration.
Matters relating to the remuneration Investment Manager and the Administrator and fee of the Investment Manager are considered by the Management Engagement Committee.
Nomination Committee The primary purpose of our Nomination Committee is to fill vacancies on the Board and ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate level and balance of skills and experience to effectively lead the Company.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Governance Corporate governance statement Leadership Services in the period ended 31 December 2014 and The Company has no employees except for significant capital deployment and quality portfolio employees in two wholly-owned operating subsidiaries assembly undertaken by the Investment Manager in the Group and is externally managed by the in such time, following the recommendations Investment Manager.
In addition, Crestbridge Fund of the Management Engagement Committee, Administrators Limited provides key administration the Board is of the opinion that the continuing services to the Company in its capacity as appointment of the Investment Manager on the Administrator and Company Secretary to the terms agreed under the IMA is in the interests of Company.
The Investment Manager Further details on the Investment Manager are given The Company has entered into the Investment in the accountability section on page 59 and in the Management Agreement with KW Investment Management Engagement Committee report on Management Ltd, a wholly owned indirect page 63. subsidiary of KW.
Administration services Under the terms of this agreement, the Investment The Company has entered into the administration Manager is responsible for the risk and portfolio agreement with Crestbridge Fund Administrators management of the Companys assets and has full Limited.
Our Administrator provides day-to-day administration services to the Company and discretionary authority to enter into transactions for acts as Secretary to the Board and Committees.
and on behalf of the Company subject to matters Our Administrator also provides regulatory and involving a conflict of interest, which require the compliance support to the Company.
formal consent of our independent Directors.
The Directors have access to the advice and We have delegated authority to the Investment services of the Administrator, who is responsible Manager for the day-to-day management of the for ensuring that Board procedures are followed assets held or acquired by the Group and there is a and that it complies with Companies Jersey Law prescribed schedule of investment and management 1991 and applicable rules and regulations of the services that the Investment Manager performs for JFSC and the LSE.
Where necessary in carrying out the Group.
A summary of the principal terms of the their duties, the Directors may seek independent IMA is set out on page 128 of this report.
professional advice and services at the expense of the Company.
As a Board, we require the Investment Manager to produce a business execution plan each year for the The Management Engagement Committee formally Company, setting out the strategy for the provision reviews the performance of our Administrator each of its services under the IMA and the management year and makes recommendations to the Board as it of the properties held or acquired by the Company.
The Board formally reviews the Investment Further details on the Administrator are given in Managers performance each year so that we the accountability section on page 59 and in the can state, if appropriate, that their continued Management Engagement Committee report on appointment is in our shareholders best interests.
Taking into account the growth of the Company 52 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
