Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Nomination Committee report Nomination Committee report I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nomination Committee for the period ended 31 December 2014.
Mark McNicholas Nomination Committee Chair 13 March 2015 Committee membership and attendance succession for Directors, particularly the Chair.
during the period To do this, we keep the leadership needs of the Our Nomination Committee members are Charlotte Company under review to ensure the continued Valeur, Mary Ricks and me, Mark McNicholas Chair.
ability of the Company to compete effectively in the marketplace.
We also keep up to date and fully We meet at least once a year and on other occasions informed about strategic issues and commercial as required.
For the period under review, we have changes affecting the Company and the market in held one meeting of the Nomination Committee and which it operates so we can ensure the leadership our attendance is shown in this table.
of the Company is well-equipped to deal with any consequent changes.
Member Attendance The Committees responsibilities: Mark McNicholas 1 1 Beyond our primary function, we also: Charlotte Valeur 1 1 Mary Ricks 1 1 Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and Committee including the range Crestbridge Fund Administrators Limited attends of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience all our meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
available and make recommendations to the In addition, we invite other representatives of the Board about any adjustments, having regard to Investment Manager and its investment advisers, the regulations to which the Company is subject and our Board Apprentice to attend as required.
Oversee the process for the appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors The Committees terms of reference Our full terms of reference, explaining our role Assess the effectiveness and performance and the authority delegated to us by the Board, of the Board and each of its Committees, are available on the Companys website at how the Board works together as a unit, the www.
eu relationships between the Board and the Investment Manager and Administrator, and The Committees purpose other relevant factors The primary role of the Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise, as well as putting in place plans for Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Governance Corporate governance statement Nomination Committee report The Committees focus during the period under review, we took on board an apprentice We considered the structure of the Board during from Board Apprentice Ltd, which is a not-for-profit the period under review and have decided that no organisation dedicated to increasing diversity changes are necessary and that the Boards levels on boards by widening the pool of board-ready of experience and knowledge are appropriate for candidates and looks at diversity as beyond gender the size and nature of the Company.
and encompassing ethnicity, culture, age, disability, personality and skill set.
For a period of one year, Appointment process we have appointed Charlmaine Vella as a Board No new Director has been appointed since the apprentice and, in that capacity, Charlmaine attends Companys IPO in February 2014 and we do not believe all Board and Committee meetings for educational purposes and takes part in discussions only when that there is a gap that currently needs to be filled.
invited to do so by the Board.
She receives no remuneration or expenses from the Company.
We have, however, formalised a policy for the appointment process.
We will use open advertising Evaluation process and ongoing training or the services of external advisers to facilitate We developed a questionnaire-based, internal the search for suitable candidates.
Consideration evaluation process that was adopted during the will be given to candidates from a wide range of period under review.
The details and results of backgrounds, based on merit and against objective this are set out in Effectiveness on page 56 of criteria, including taking care that appointees have this report.
enough time available to devote to the position and with due regard for the benefits of diversity in all its As the majority of the Non-Executive Directors of forms on the Board.
the Company are Jersey residents and each of the Board members is regulated by the JFSC, they are Any short listed candidates we select will be seen each required to undertake 25 hours per annum in the first instance by the Chair and one other of continued professional development.
If appropriate, the potential not identified any specific training needs so each candidate s will be invited to meet the Committee Director is required to take responsibility for his as a whole.
We will then decide whether to her own continued professional development recommend an appointment to the Board and the and to self-certify satisfaction of the regulatory Board will decide whether to make the appointment.
In addition, Jersey regulations require that all Directors of the Company undergo antiDiversity policy bribery and anti-money laundering training.
We consider that together the Directors have a A process for meeting this requirement has been balance of skills, qualifications and experience which discussed by the Committee and is being set in are relevant to the Company and the Group as a place: induction training will be provided by an whole.
The Board and this Committee support the independent service provider at the Companys recommendations of the Davies Report and believe expense.
in the value and importance of diversity in the boardroom.
However, we do not consider that it is The Committees effectiveness appropriate or in the interest of the Company and its The recent evaluation reflected that the Committee shareholders to set prescriptive diversity targets for is in a phase of development, having only had a the Board.
The proportion of female Directors on the brief period since our formation.
Despite this, it Board is currently 40%.
was noted that valuable progress had been made in our areas of responsibility and the Board and The Board is committed to improving the its committees were comprised appropriately for opportunities for people from a diverse range the needs of the Company and were operating of backgrounds to understand and prepare for effectively.
During the period 58 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
