40 Governance Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction The Board acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to the principle of, achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
This report, together with the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration, as detailed on pages 45 to 61, describes how the Principles of Good Governance, which are set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, are applied by the Group.
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, revised in September 2012, throughout the year to 31 July 2014 and up to the date of this report.
It has also complied with the edition of the Code published in June 2010, as compliance with this edition of the Code is still required by the Listing Rules.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available, free of charge, from the Financial Reporting Council, online at www.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The Group has applied the Principles of Good Governance, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles, by complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code as reported above.
Further explanations of how the Main Principles and Supporting Principles have been applied are set out below and in connection with the remuneration of the directors, in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
The Board At the date of this report the Board consists of seven directors whose names, responsibilities and other details appear on page 36.
Two of the directors are executive and five of the directors, including the Chairman, are non-executive.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial resources and personnel are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision, which includes strategy and management, structure and capital, financial reporting and controls, internal controls, contracts and agreements, communication, Board membership and other appointments, remuneration, delegation of authority, corporate governance matters, policies and other miscellaneous items.
In addition, it has a series of matters that are dealt with at regular Board meetings including an operational review, a financial review, land acquisition, major projects, personnel, risk, health and safety, strategy, reporting requirements, corporate governance, internal control and matters for decision.
It has also adopted aframework of delegated commercial and operational authorities which define the scope of powers delegated tomanagement below Board level.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and all the directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles require one-third of the directors to offer themselves for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting AGM and all directors to seek re-election at least every three years.
The Articles also require new directors appointed since the last AGM to offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM.
In addition, the UK Corporate Governance Code includes a provision that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
As a result, all of the directors retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The directors biographies are shown on page 36.
None of the executive directors hold external directorships.
Board effectiveness The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it operates effectively.
In this regard it pays due cognisance to the FRCs document entitled Guidance on Board Effectiveness, dated March 2011.
The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the requirements of the business.
During the year there were seven Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, four meetings of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, one meeting of the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration and two Nomination Committee meetings.
The Board holds a meeting at least once a year dedicated almost entirely to strategy.
In addition, the Board aims to visit four divisions each year and last year visited the North London, Scotland, Thames Valley and Wessex divisions, as well as receiving presentations at Board meetings from senior Head Office, regional and divisional management.
In addition, presentations are also given by external advisers and other third parties, where necessary.
There were no absences from any Board or Board Committee meetings by any director during the year, with the exception that Mr Toms was unable to attend one Board meeting and one meeting of each of the Audit and Nomination Committees and of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration.
The non-executive directors met twice during the year, including once without the Chairman present.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 41 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Training and development The Board received appropriate training and updates on various matters relevant to its role, as and when required.
Training needs are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation process and on an ongoing basis.
The new non-executive directors have benefited from a Board induction programme which included meetings with a number of the Companys advisers, senior personnel at Head Office, regional chairmen and divisional management, as well as site visits.
Board balance and independence The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, which are recorded in writing and approved by the Board, are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
The senior independent non-executive director is John Cuthbert, who is available for shareholders to raise any queries or concerns they may have.
Each of the non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, has, at all times, acted independently of management and has no relationship which would materially affect the exercise of his or her independent judgement and decision-making.
The Company considers all of its non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Whenever any director considers that he or she is interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or may be a party, due notice is given to the Board.
No such instances of any significance have arisen during the year.
Board evaluation This years evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual directors, was again externally facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, which has no other business connections with the Group.
The evaluation was conducted using online questionnaires and follow-up telephone calls.
This process also included the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, evaluating the performance of the other directors and the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, assessing the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman, evaluated its own performance and the Committees, led by their respective Chairman, evaluated their own performance.
The evaluation concluded that, overall, the Board and its Committees are performing well.
Good progress has been made on actions from last years evaluation so that there is now a more forward looking agenda at Board meetings and there have been improvements in management information to the Board, information provided to external stakeholders and work on succession planning, particularly below Board level and this work continues.
The main areas of improvement identified by this years evaluation were that the Board will be looking to improve on the Groups CSR performance and reporting.
In addition the Group is looking to develop further its strategy in relation to employee management.
Furthermore work will continue to develop KPIs in relation tobusiness performance and to further improve the quality of Board information.
The Board Committees The Board has formally constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference for the Audit and Nomination Committees and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration are available either on request, at the AGM or on the Groups website: www.
Other Committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as required from time to time.
Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration comprises the executive directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms, conditions and remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Last year it met on one occasion to review the fees and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee comprises John Cuthbert Chairman, Mike Toms, Paul Hampden Smith, Denise Jagger and John Watson, who were all members of the Committee throughout the year.
Peter Johnson was a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 31 January 2014.
The Committees main duties are to formulate plans for succession for both executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year met on two occasions.
During the year, the Committee made recommendations to the Board in relation to the structure of below Board succession planning.
It also reviewed the quality ofthe recruitment and induction process for the two new non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit using a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria recommended by the Committee, with due regard given to the benefits of diversity on the Board, in all its aspects.
The appointment of a non-executive director is for a specified term and re-appointment is not automatic and is made on therecommendation of the Committee.
The Committee also guides the whole Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
John Cuthbert Chairman of the Nomination Committee 13 October 2014 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Committee membership The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors, Paul Hampden Smith Chairman, Mike Toms, John Cuthbert and Denise Jagger, who were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Peter Johnson was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 31 January 2014.
The directors biographies on page 36 detail the Committee members previous experience.
The Board considers that Paul Hampden Smith has recent relevant financial experience and is confident that the collective experience of the members enables them to act effectively as an Audit Committee.
Meetings during the year The Committee meets at least three times per year and met three times during the year under review.
Details of Committee members attendance is given on page 40.
The Committee met the external auditor without management present on two occasions.
In addition, the Committee Chairman had regular contact with the Finance Director and the external auditor.
Responsibilities and terms of reference The key responsibilities of the Committee include the following: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and position.
to review and make recommendations in relation to the half year and annual financial statements prior to submission to the Board for approval.
to assess the scope and effectiveness of the systems established by management to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks.
to review managements reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
to consider the appointment re-appointment of the external auditor and assess its independence each year.
to recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees above a certain level, in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
to develop and monitor the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not restrict the external auditors independence or objectivity.
to agree the nature and scope of the external audit and review the quality control procedures and steps taken by the external auditor to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.
to oversee the process for selecting the external auditor and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the AGM.
to consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
to review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
to review annually the Groups compliance with its Anti-Bribery Policy.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
The work of the Committee during the year is described below.
Financial reporting The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts, interim results, preliminary results announcement and reports from the external auditor, KPMG LLP, on the outcome of their audit during the year.
During the year, and up to the date of this report, the Committee considered the key accounting issues in relation to the financial statements to be: profit recognition: and the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress.
These were discussed with the external auditor and are described in more detail below.
Profit recognition gross profit of 316.4 million 2013 203.3 million has been recognised on housing and other revenue.
Gross profit is recognised for completed house sales based on the latest whole site phase gross margin, which is an output of the site valuation.
These valuations, which are updated at frequent intervals throughout the life of each site, use actual and forecast selling prices, land costs and construction costs and are sensitive to future movements in both the estimated cost to complete and expected selling prices.
Forecast selling prices are inherently uncertain due to changes in market conditions.
The Committee understand the Groups gross profit recognition policy and the related systems and controls.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 43 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Financial reporting continued The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they performed in relation to profit recognition, including testing controls over monitoring and updating site selling price and construction cost forecasts, including how the work of suitably qualified surveyors employed by the Group is incorporated into site valuations, and the authorisation and recording of costs.
The external auditor has identified higher risk active sites based on a number of risk indicators and performed a comparison of estimated total revenue and costs throughout the life of these sites to assess the historical accuracy of managements forecasting processes.
The Committee believes, following enquiry of management and the external auditor, that appropriate internal controls are in place to assess the forecast selling prices and costs to complete, and that the Groups gross profit recognition policy is appropriate and has been properly applied in these financial statements.
Carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress inventories of 1,822.7 million 2013 1,513.5 million are the largest asset on the Groups balance sheet see note 13 for further detail.
Inventory is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
To determine the net realisable value the whole site gross margin is forecast as detailed above.
The risk is that for any site, currently trading or not, the net realisable value may be below cost.
Management ensure that any site with negative margins has an appropriate provision, with this being re-assessed during the year.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they performed in relation to the carrying value of the Groups landand work in progress, which includes the procedures identified above in relation to profit recognition.
The Committee believes, following enquiries with management and the external auditor, that appropriate internal controls are in place to assess the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress, and the carrying value of these assets in thefinancial statements is appropriate.
External audit KPMG LLP is the Groups external auditor and presented a detailed audit plan to the Committee in March 2014 which included an assessment of the key risks.
For the year ended 31 July 2014, the primary risks identified were the valuation of inventories and margin recognition due to the inherent judgement required.
The Group has a written Independent Auditor Policy in place which seeks to preserve the independence of its auditor by defining those non-audit services the independent auditor may and may not provide.
There are clearly defined levels of approval depending on the value of work to be provided.
Where fees exceed 100,000 or where total non-audit fees equate to 100% of audit fees, Board approval is required.
In respect of any material project with fees in excess of 200,000 where the auditor is considered for the provision of services, this would be the subject of a competitive tendering process.
The Groups independent auditor would not be engaged for any of the following non-audit related services: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Group: financial information system design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, or contributions in kind reports: actuarial services: internal audit outsourcing services: management functions or human resources: broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and any other service that is impermissible by regulation.
In addition KPMG LLP provides the Committee with written confirmation, on an annual basis, that it remains independent.
For an analysis of fees paid to KPMG LLP see note 4 on page 81.
The non-audit fees are for tax compliance and ad hoc tax advisory work and an audit of the Groups final salary pension scheme, which is closed to future accrual.
The Committee considered the re-appointment of KPMG LLP following its review of the external auditors performance and has recommended to the Board that the external auditor should be re-appointed at the forthcoming AGM.
The review included discussions with management and the auditor, an assessment of how the auditor had performed in relation to the audit plan, the independence of the auditor and the presentations made to the Committee during the year.
The current auditor has been in place and the audit has not been tendered since the Company was listed in 1979, with the lead audit partner having been the subject of rotation in accordance with Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3.
Nick Plumb this year commenced his fiveyear term as lead audit partner.
It is the Companys current intention to put the external audit contract out to tender within the next six years, subject to the annual performance reviews carried out by the Committee.
Other matters During the year, the Committee considered the FRC guidance on audit materiality, the Groups IT strategy, IT programme and their effect on the Groups control environment.
It also approved the appointment of a new external provider for the Groups whistleblowing helpline, revised its own terms of reference and reviewed the Groups procedures for ensuring compliance withthe Bribery Act 2010.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness, following guidance from the Committee.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The system is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report Internal Control Guidance for Directors of Listed Companies Incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to establish, maintain and monitor a system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management to safeguard the shareholders interests in the Groups assets.
This system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular requirements and reduce the risk to which it is exposed rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board also reviews the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed on an ongoing basis.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to particular areas of the business together with the design and operation of suitable controls.
These principal risks, which are described in the Strategic Report on pages 30 to 32, are regularly assessed and cover all aspects of the business and in particular, land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, sales and personnel.
In addition, there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk profile.
There is a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic and ongoing basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, the operation of the systems and controls necessary to manage such risks and their effectiveness and to satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: The Board has agreed a list of key risks which affect the Group, which are reviewed throughout the year, and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group mitigate those risks.
The acquisition of land and land interests is initiated by divisional management and reviewed by the regional chairmen prior to submission to Head Office for approval.
All land acquisitions must achieve minimum financial acquisition criteria and are subject to approval by the executive directors and in certain circumstances, approval by the Board.
A comprehensive monitoring and reporting system is in place entailing annual budgets, monthly forecasting and management reporting, including variance analysis and commentary.
This is produced by divisional management and reviewed by the regional chairmen and function heads at Head Office.
Summaries are also provided to the executive directors.
Monthly divisional board meetings are held to review divisional performance, which are attended by the regional chairmen.
The executive directors attend certain divisional board meetings on a regular basis during the year, and this is supplemented with main Board visits to divisions.
Site valuations are produced periodically throughout the life of a site, with the actual and forecast costs and revenues produced at a divisional level prior to review by the divisional management team and Head Office team.
Regular visits to sites by in-house health and safety teams and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance.
A central treasury function operates at Head Office ensuring the optimum financing is obtained for the Group as a whole.
A number of the Groups key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include taxation, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal, personnel and company secretarial functions.
This centralisation ensures a consistent approach and the appropriate range of skills to manage these specialised areas.
The Group does not have a separate internal audit function and, as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need for such an internal audit function and makes a recommendation to the Board.
During the year, having considered the robust systems and strong controls already present at both divisional and Head Office levels, as described above, the Audit Committee recommended that no separate internal audit function was presently required.
The position will continue to be monitored by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
During the year, there were no significant internal control issues identified by the Groups internal control monitoring procedures, as detailed above.
Paul Hampden Smith Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 October 2014 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
