Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Group Executive Board 2.
Justin OConnor Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Savills UK Chief Executive Continental Europe For photograph and full biography see opposite page.
Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Mark was appointed to the Group Executive Board Justin was appointed to the Group Executive Board when it was formed in February 2008. in September 2010.
Simon Shaw Group Chief Financial Officer Background and relevant experience: He became Background and relevant experience: He joined For photograph and full biography see Chief Executive of Savills UK Limited following the Cordea Savills in January 2004 as Head of Business opposite page.
merger of the Commercial and L&P businesses in Development.
He was subsequently appointed Chief January 2013.
He previously served as Chairman Executive of Cordea Savills in January 2006.
Chris Lee and Chief Executive of Savills Commercial Limited previously held a number of senior positions at Group Legal Director & Company Secretary from January 2008 and prior to this was Head of the Henderson Global Investors, Lend Lease and the Manchester office which he opened for Savills from AMP Society Appointment to the Group Executive Board: when he joined in July 1996.
Chris joined Savills in June 2008 and was appointed 15.
Mitch Steir to the Group Executive Board in August 2008.
Rob McKellar alternate member with Michael Colacino He has responsibility for legal and compliance Chief Executive Asia Pacific Chairman & CEO Savills Studley issues globally.
Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Background and relevant experience: He held Rob was appointed to the Group Executive Board Mitch was appointed to the Group Executive Board equivalent roles with Alfred McAlpine plc, Courts plc when it was formed in February 2008. when Studley, Inc. joined Savills in May 2014. and Scholl plc between 1997 and 2008, prior to which he was Deputy Group Secretary of Delta plc from Background and relevant experience: He was Background and relevant experience: He joined 1990 to 1997. appointed Chief Executive of Asia Pacific on 31 March Studley, Inc. in 1988 after beginning his commercial 2005 having served as the Group Finance Director real estate career at Huberth & Peters in New York.
Rupert Sebag-Montefiore since June 2000 and prior to this since December 1994 Head of Global Residential was Finance Director of Savills Commercial Limited.
Other appointments: Mitch serves on the boards of The Museum of the City of New York, the Film Society Appointment to the Group Executive Board: of Lincoln Center, The Realty Foundation of New York, 12.
Raymond Lee Rupert joined Savills in 1980 and was appointed to The Avenue of Americas Association, and the Citizens Chief Executive Hong Kong, the Group Executive Board when it was formed in Budget Commission.
Macau and Greater China February 2008.
Appointment to the Group Executive Board: 16.
Michael Colacino Background and relevant experience: He Raymond was appointed to the Group Executive alternate member with Mitch Steir was appointed as Head of Global Residential in Board in January 2011.
President Savills Studley January 2013 having until then, served as Managing Director and Chairman and Chief Executive of Background and relevant experience: He joined Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Savills L&P Limited from May 2000 and October Savills in 1989.
In 2009, Raymond became the CEO Michael was appointed to the Group Executive Board 2004 respectively.
in Hong Kong and Macau and in 2010 was appointed when Studley, Inc. joined Savills in May 2014.
Raymond is a Fellow of the Hong Other appointments: Rupert is currently a Director Kong Institute of Directors and is a Guangdong Province Background and relevant experience: He joined of Pigeon Land Ltd and Penshurst Properties Ltd. Zhuhai Municipal Committee Member, CPPCC.
Studley, Inc. in October 1991 and became president He is also a member of the Investment Committees in 2002. of Winchester College and Christ Church, Oxford.
Simon Hope Other appointments: Michael serves on the Real Global Head of Capital Markets Estate Board of New Yorks Board of Governors and the Advisory Board of the Zell-Lurie Real Estate Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Center at Wharton.
Simon was appointed to the Group Executive Board when it was formed in February 2008.
Background and relevant experience: He joined Savills in September 1986 and he is Head of our Global Capital Markets business.
He is also a member of the Board of the Charities Property Fund and Tilstone LLP.
