Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy The Groups remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, Group Executive Board members and senior fee-earners are structured to provide a competitive mix of variable performance related i. e. annual performance profit share and longer-term incentives and fixed remuneration principally base salary to reflect individual and corporate performance.
The objective is to set targets which are both achievable and stretching.
In determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviewing that of the Group Executive Board members, the Committee reviews the role and responsibility of the individual, their performance and the arrangements applying across the wider employee group.
It also considers sector and broader market practice in the context of the prevailing economic conditions and corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues.
The Remuneration Policy and its application to the Executive Directors are described in more detail in the pages which follow.
The information in this Report has not been audited unless otherwise stated.
Overview of the Remuneration Policy The chart and table below and accompanying tables on pages 55 to 57 and then pages 60 to 64, together provide an overview of the different elements of remuneration, their purpose and linkage to our corporate strategy, and the key features of each component.
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Salary Near term Annual Performance Long term Performance Share Plan Related Profit Share PSP Pension Defined contribution Delivered in part in Delivered in part Awards vest subject to satisfaction cash immediately in the form of of performance conditions, currently subject to shares, deferred comparative TSR performance clawback for three years 50% of award and EPS growth Benefits Private medical insurance subject to malus 50% of award subject to malus include and car car allowance and clawback Fixed remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and the cost of employer pension contributions, while variable remuneration comprises the annual profit share and long-term incentive potential under the Performance Share Plan.
Remuneration Policy The following sets out the Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
There have been no changes in the Remuneration Policy since the 2014 AGM.
To provide consistency with the remainder of the Report, salaries shown are 2015 salaries and the scenario charts and Performance Share Plan awards have been updated for the operation of the policy in 2015.
Details of service contracts have also been updated.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Base Salary A core component of The Committee considers base salary Set significantly below market median n a the total reward package, levels annually taking into consideration: levels with greater emphasis on the which overall is designed performance related elements of reward.
The Groups philosophy to place to attract, motivate and greater emphasis on variable, For 2015 salaries are with effect from retain individuals of the performance related remuneration.
The size and scope of the role.
The general level of salary reviews Although salaries are reviewed annually, across the Group.
in line with the Groups philosophy, the Appropriate external market Committee does not intend to make annual competitive data.
incremental salary increases for Executive Directors.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to award salary increases taking into consideration the factors considered as part of the annual review.
There is no overall maximum salary or increase.
52 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
