Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time commitment expected.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a period of three years.
These appointments may be renewed for subsequent terms.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, all Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The Chairmans letter of engagement allows for six months notice.
Appointments of other Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either party with three months notice.
The Company reserves the right to make a cash payment in lieu of notice.
The following table sets out the date each Non-Executive Director was appointed to the Board and the end date of the current letter of appointment.
Non-Executive Date appointed to Board End date of current letter of appointment Peter Smith 24 May 2004 24 May 2016 Martin Angle 2 January 2007 2 January 2016 Tim Freshwater 1 January 2012 31 December 2017 Liz Hewitt 24 June 2014 24 June 2017 Charles McVeigh 1 August 2000 1 August 2015 Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
As part of decisions being made on the annual pay review, the Committee is informed about the approach to salary increase and the outcome of profit share and other incentive arrangements such as fee earner commission schemes across the Group.
The Committee is also provided with comparative metrics on total employment costs across the Group as a percentage of revenue.
The Company operates a consistent remuneration philosophy across the Group.
In this context the Committee does not consider it necessary to consult with employees in the Group on the specific remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes into account the views of the Groups shareholders and investor bodies.
The Board and the Committee through its Chairman has open and regular dialogue with our major shareholders on remuneration matters, including consulting with major shareholders where the Committee is considering making material changes to the remuneration policy.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 59
