Corporate Governance Statement continued Board of Directors 1.
Tim Freshwater Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director and Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointment to the Board: Peter was appointed Appointment to the Board: Martin was appointed Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 24 May to the Board on 2 January 2007 and replaced Timothy to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2004 and was elected Chairman with effect from Ingram as the Senior Independent Non-Executive 1 January 2012.
Background and relevant experience: Until June Background and relevant experience: Formerly Background and relevant experience: Formerly, 2014 Tim was a Non-Executive Director of Chong UK Senior Partner of  PwC he was Group Finance Director of TI Group plc and Hing Bank Limited.
Formerly he was Chairman of Peter served for two years as Chairman of Coopers & held various executive roles with Terra Firma Capital Grosvenor Asia Pacific Limited.
He was Managing Lybrand International and as a member of the global Partners and its portfolio companies, including The Director and Chairman of Corporate Finance Goldman leadership team of PwC.
He served as Chairman of Waste Recycling Group Executive Chairman and Sachs Asia from 2001 until 2005 and Vice-Chairman RAC plc and was a Non-Executive Director of Le Meridien Hotel Group Deputy Chairman.
Prior to of Goldman Sachs Asia from 2005 until 2012.
Tim Safeway plc and the Equitable Life Assurance Society.
that he held a number of senior positions in investment previously worked at Jardine Fleming, becoming banking with S G Warburg & Co. Morgan Stanley and Group Chairman in 1999, and was a Partner at Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Dresdner Kleinwort.
Slaughter and May from 1975 to 1996.
Associated British Foods plc and Paris Orleans SCA and Chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Other appointments: A Non-Executive Director of Investment Trust plc.
Pennon Group plc, OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital psc Aquarius Platinum Limited, COSCO Pacific Limited, Dubai, Chairman of The National Exhibition Group, Swire Pacific Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges Committee membership: Remuneration and and Vice Chairman and Treasurer of FIA Foundation.
Tim was appointed as a Nomination Committees.
Non-Executive Director non-independent and Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration and Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia Pacific Company Nomination Committees.
Jeremy Helsby Group Chief Executive Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration 5.
Charles McVeigh and Nomination Committee.
Appointment to the Board: Jeremy joined Savills Independent Non-Executive Director in 1980 and was appointed to the Board in 1999.
Appointment to the Board: Charles was appointed 7.
Liz Hewitt Background and relevant experience: He was to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Savills 1 August 2000.
Commercial and Savills Europe for seven years Appointment to the Board: Liz was appointed until he was appointed as Group Chief Executive Background and relevant experience: Formerly, to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on on 7 May 2008. he was Co-Chairman of Citigroups European 24th June 2014.
Investment Bank and served on the Boards of Witan Other Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Investment Company plc, Clearstream, the London Background and relevant experience: Liz was Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Stock Exchange, LIFFE, British American Business Inc previously Group Director, Corporate Affairs of Smith and was a member of both the Development Board & Nephew plc between 2004 and 2011, and prior to Committee membership: Nomination Committee.
and Advisory Council of the Princes Trust.
He was 2004, was a director of 3i plc having spent her early also appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the career with Gartmore, CVC and latterly 3i as a private City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk equity investor.
Simon Shaw Review Committee and was a member of the Fulbright Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Group Chief Financial Officer Commission.
Charles has recently become Chairman of Rubicon Fund Management, a successful London Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: Simon joined Savills based hedge fund.
of Melrose Industries Plc and Novo Nordisk A S. as Group Chief Financial Officer in March 2009.
Independent member of the House of Lords Other appointments: A Senior Adviser at Citigroup, Audit Committee.
Background and relevant experience: Simon is a Charles also serves on the Board of EFG-Hermes, Chartered Accountant.
He was formerly Chief Financial Petropavlovsk plc formerly Peter Hambro Mining plc Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration Officer of Gyrus Group PLC, a position he held for five and is a Trustee of the Landmark Trust and the and Nomination Committees.
years until its sale to the Olympus Corporation.
Simon Natural History Museum Development Board.
was Chief Operating Officer of Profile Therapeutics plc for five years and also worked as a corporate financier, latterly at Hambros Bank Limited.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Synairgen plc.
