Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements The Group also operates a shareholding policy for Executive Performance measures and target setting Directors details of this can be found on page 65 of this Report.
Annual Performance Related Profit Share Performance measures for the annual performance related profit The Committee may make minor amendments to the share are intended to provide a balance between incentivising Remuneration Policy for example for regulatory, exchange executives to meet near term profit objectives and the creation control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a of longer term shareholder value through an appropriate mix of change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval.
strategic, operational and personal performance goals.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Consistent with the Groups partnership style culture, annual payments and payments for loss of office including exercising profit performance is the primary performance measure.
Targets any discretions available to it in connection with such payments are set to be appropriately stretching, by reference to the Groups notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Remuneration internal business plans and to align with returns to shareholders Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were over the cycle.
agreed before the Remuneration Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director and, in the A portion of the award relates to strategic, operational and opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration personal objectives.
These objectives are determined annually for the individual becoming a Director.
For these purposes by the Committee and incentivise sustainable improvements in payments includes pension payments under legacy defined the underlying drivers of performance and the continued benefit pension plans and the satisfaction of awards of variable development and further growth of the Group.
remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment were agreed at the time the award was granted.
Performance Share Plan For the Performance Share Plan, the use of a mix of relative Clawback or malus may apply where stated in the above table.
shareholder return and earnings per share for 2015 awards Other elements of remuneration are not subject to clawback or ensures that the Executive Directors and Group Executive Board malus.
Note: Accurate as at 12 May 2014 when the policy report members are focused on delivering both absolute bottom line was approved.
Following the publication of the 2014 UK Corporate growth and strong returns to shareholders relative to an Governance Code, the Committee determined that clawback and appropriate comparator group.
malus provisions should be extended across the cash and the share elements of the annual performance related profit share In the event the Committee considered it appropriate to change and also to the Performance Share Plan as set out on page 62. the performance measures for the Performance Share Plan, any new measure would be selected to be consistent with the The Committee may, at its discretion, vary the proportion of Groups long-term business strategy and to support long-term annual performance related profit share deferred into shares.
The Committee would consult with major shareholders in advance of a change in a performance The Performance Share Plan will be operated in accordance measure used for the Performance Share Plan.
with the rules of that plan as approved by shareholders.
In accordance with those rules the Committee has discretion in The performance targets for the Performance Share Plan the following areas as well as general administrative discretion : are reviewed periodically and set taking into account market conditions, external market forecasts, internal business forecasts the Committee may adjust the number of shares under award and market practice.
The Committee may also adjust the targets if there is a capitalisation, rights issue, subdivision, reduction in the light of corporate activity e. g. merger and acquisition or any other variation in the share capital, a demerger or activity, capital events or changes to accounting rules to special dividend: ensure that targets remain appropriate.
a performance condition for an existing award may be amended if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an amended performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance and would be no less difficult to satisfy: on a change of control or winding up the number of shares will be subject to any relevant performance conditions and time pro-rated.
The Committee has discretion not to apply this reduction or to apply no performance or an alternative performance condition.
Additionally, participants may have the opportunity to exchange their awards for equivalent awards in the new holding company: and the Committee has the discretion to treat a demerger as an early vesting event on the same basis as a change of control.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 55
