Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to fees Operation Other items Fees for the Chairman and other Non-Executive Fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to Directors are set at an appropriate level taking into determined by the Non-Executive Chairman and participate in any of the Groups incentive consideration individual roles and responsibilities, the Executive Directors.
the time commitment required and external Fees payable to the Chairman are determined Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive market practice.
by the Remuneration Committee excluding any taxable benefits however, they are covered Fees are reviewed annually.
by Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Basic fees for membership of the Board are The Non-Executive Director fee policy is to pay: Expenses incurred in the performance of subject to the maximum payable to Non-Executive Non-Executive duties for the Company may be a basic fee for membership of the Board: and Directors excluding the Non-Executive Chairman reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, Committee chairmanship and Senior as stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
including any tax due on the benefits.
Independent Director fees to reflect the additional responsibilities and time Additional benefits may be provided in the future commitment of the roles.
if the Board considered this appropriate.
The Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
Additional fees for membership of a Committee or chairmanship or membership of subsidiary boards or other fixed fees may be introduced if considered appropriate.
Approach to remuneration on recruitment New recruits would normally participate in defined contribution In the event that the Board appointed a new Executive Director, in arrangements or take a non-pensionable salary supplement.
determining his or her new remuneration package the Committee The level of contribution would be determined at the time of would take into consideration all relevant factors including the appointment and may be set at a higher level than the current calibre, skills and experience of the individual and the market policy.
This might arise, for example, where a newly appointed from which they are recruited.
In determining the remuneration Executive Director is recruited on a significantly lower salary than package the Committee remains mindful of the need to avoid in their previous position taking into account the structure of paying more than is necessary on recruitment.
For international appointments, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions Buy outs will operate, and when determining arrangements the Committee To facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director, the will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice Committee may make awards to buy out remuneration forfeited in the relevant international jurisdiction and the pension on leaving the previous employer.
In doing so the Committee arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
would take into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, the vesting conditions attached to the awards and Variable remuneration any performance conditions.
The overriding principle will be that The variable remuneration annual performance related profit any replacement buy out awards will be of up to a comparable share and Performance Share Plan awards for a new recruit commercial value of the awards that have been forfeited.
would be consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy The Committee may make use of LR 9.4.
2 of the Listing in the table above excluding buy outs.
Rules for the purpose of buy outs only.
In the case of an employee who is promoted to the position of Fixed remuneration Executive Director including if an Executive Director is appointed The remuneration policy for current Executive Directors reflects following an acquisition or merger, it is the Companys policy to the Groups overall philosophy of paying below market median honour pre-existing awards and contractual commitments.
salaries and a greater emphasis on performance related elements.
However, the Committee is mindful of the need to NonExecutive Directors retain flexibility for the purpose of recruitment, taking into In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, account the range of potential circumstances which might remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those give rise to the need to recruit a new Executive Director.
detailed in the relevant table above.
Against that background the policy for the fixed element of reward for a new Executive Director allows: Interim appointments In the event that an interim appointment is made to fill an the salary for a new appointment to be set in line with Executive Director role on a short-term basis or a Non-Executive market levels rather than below market levels: or Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis provision of a salary supplement for a period of time as an then an additional fee or salary supplement may be provided.
Executive Director transitions to a lower fixed pay over time.
Where an Executive Director is located in a different international jurisdiction benefits may reflect market practice in that jurisdiction.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 57
