Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy The Groups remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, Group Executive Board members and senior fee-earners are structured to provide a competitive mix of variable performance related i. e. annual performance profit share and longer-term incentives and fixed remuneration principally base salary to reflect individual and corporate performance.
The objective is to set targets which are both achievable and stretching.
In determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviewing that of the Group Executive Board members, the Committee reviews the role and responsibility of the individual, their performance and the arrangements applying across the wider employee group.
It also considers sector and broader market practice in the context of the prevailing economic conditions and corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues.
The Remuneration Policy and its application to the Executive Directors are described in more detail in the pages which follow.
The information in this Report has not been audited unless otherwise stated.
Overview of the Remuneration Policy The chart and table below and accompanying tables on pages 55 to 57 and then pages 60 to 64, together provide an overview of the different elements of remuneration, their purpose and linkage to our corporate strategy, and the key features of each component.
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Salary Near term Annual Performance Long term Performance Share Plan Related Profit Share PSP Pension Defined contribution Delivered in part in Delivered in part Awards vest subject to satisfaction cash immediately in the form of of performance conditions, currently subject to shares, deferred comparative TSR performance clawback for three years 50% of award and EPS growth Benefits Private medical insurance subject to malus 50% of award subject to malus include and car car allowance and clawback Fixed remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and the cost of employer pension contributions, while variable remuneration comprises the annual profit share and long-term incentive potential under the Performance Share Plan.
Remuneration Policy The following sets out the Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
There have been no changes in the Remuneration Policy since the 2014 AGM.
To provide consistency with the remainder of the Report, salaries shown are 2015 salaries and the scenario charts and Performance Share Plan awards have been updated for the operation of the policy in 2015.
Details of service contracts have also been updated.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Base Salary A core component of The Committee considers base salary Set significantly below market median n a the total reward package, levels annually taking into consideration: levels with greater emphasis on the which overall is designed performance related elements of reward.
The Groups philosophy to place to attract, motivate and greater emphasis on variable, For 2015 salaries are with effect from retain individuals of the performance related remuneration.
The size and scope of the role.
The general level of salary reviews Although salaries are reviewed annually, across the Group.
in line with the Groups philosophy, the Appropriate external market Committee does not intend to make annual competitive data.
incremental salary increases for Executive Directors.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to award salary increases taking into consideration the factors considered as part of the annual review.
There is no overall maximum salary or increase.
52 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Pension Provides appropriate Defined contribution pension arrangements For 2015 the pension contribution n a retirement benefits.
arrangements are: Rewards sustained Group Chief Executive: HMRC approved salary and profit share contribution.
sacrifice arrangements are in place.
Pension Group Chief Financial Officer: benefits are provided either through a Group 18% of annual base salary.
personal pension plan, as a non-pensionable salary supplement, contribution to a personal As part of the funding arrangements agreed pension arrangement, or equivalent when the Plan was closed to future accrual arrangement for overseas jurisdictions.
in 2010, the Group Chief Executive will receive a minimum contribution from 2015 of 14%.
The maximum contribution will be no more than the maximum contribution for all former members of the Plan.
The maximum annual pension contribution for the current Chief Financial Officer is 18%.
The Plan is closed to future accruals.
However legacy arrangements will be honoured.
New recruits would normally participate in defined contribution arrangements or take a non-pensionable salary supplement.
The level of contribution would be determined at the time of appointment and may be set at a higher level than the current policy.
For international appointments, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will operate, and when determining arrangements the Committee will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice in the relevant international jurisdiction and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
Benefits To provide market Benefits currently comprise: Car allowance up to a maximum n a competitive benefits.
Medical insurance benefits: of 9,000 p. a.
Car car allowance: There is no overall maximum as the cost Permanent Health Insurance: of insurance benefits depends on the Life insurance: and individuals circumstances and the costs Directors and Officers liability of relocation and international benefits insurance.
will also depend on the jurisdiction.
Other benefits may be provided if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Where an Executive Director is located in a different international jurisdiction benefits may reflect market practice in that jurisdiction.
In the event that an existing Executive Director or new Executive Director is required by the Group to relocate, other benefits may be provided including but not limited to a relocation allowance, housing allowance and tax equalisation.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 53 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Annual Performance Related Profit Share To encourage the Annual profit share awards reflect the In line with the Groups philosophy, there is Performance is primarily achievement of challenging Groups annual profit performance and greater emphasis on variable performance measured based on the financial, strategic and or personal performance and contribution.
related pay, while base salaries are set Groups annual profit operational targets.
Awards are delivered part in cash and significantly below market median levels.
performance with at least 70% part in shares subject to a minimum cash of awards subject to profit Further alignment with Maximum annual profit share awards are: threshold.
The proportion delivered in performance.
The remainder shareholders interests 2m p. a. for the Group Chief Executive.
shares is determined on a progressively of the award is based on an through deferral of a 1.5m p. a. for the Group Chief increasing scale, up to one third.
appropriate mix of strategic, portion into shares.
operational and or personal Shares are normally deferred for a period performance goals.
For a new Executive Director the Committee of at least three years.
would determine the appropriate normal The award potential at The Committee awards dividend equivalents maximum taking into account the role and threshold is 0.
For on-target in respect of dividends declared over the responsibility, subject to a maximum of performance currently around deferral period.
50% of the profit share award is awarded.
The Committee may exercise its judgement to adjust individual annual bonus payouts should they not reflect overall business performance or individual contribution.
Clawback provisions apply in exceptional circumstances such as a material misstatement of the Groups financial results or gross misconduct.
Performance Share Plan PSP To drive and reward the Awards of shares subject to a performance Maximum annual award potential of 200% Performance conditions for delivery of longer term period of normally no less than three years.
of salary plan rules limit.
future awards are reviewed sustainable shareholder annually to ensure that the PSP awards may be in the form of nil cost Award policy for 2015 is: value, aid retention and measures and their targets options or conditional awards over shares.
Up to 550k for the Group ensure alignment of remain appropriate to business Awards may incorporate an award of Chief Executive.
senior management and strategy and are sufficiently tax-advantaged Company Share Option Up to 350k for the Group shareholder interests.
challenging, and that the relative Plan options.
balance of the performance measures remains appropriate The Committee awards dividend equivalents Subject to an overall maximum of for properly incentivising and on a reinvested basis in respect of dividends 1m per annum per participant.
rewarding the creation of over the vesting or exercise period.
For a new Executive Director the Committee longer term sustainable Malus provisions apply, allowing for would determine the appropriate normal shareholder value.
the reduction of awards in exceptional maximum taking into account the role and Performance conditions circumstances of material misstatement responsibility, subject to a maximum of are currently based on or gross misconduct.
200% of salary or if lower 1m p. a. p. a. two measures: The Committee may adjust vesting of Relative TSR against awards if it considers that the outcome of the the FTSE 250 excluding measurement of the performance conditions investment trusts or does not accurately reflect the underlying other appropriate performance or financial health of the comparator group: Company.
In the event the Committee a selected earnings proposes to make an upward adjustment based measure.
the Committee will consult with major The Committee may review shareholders in advance.
The Committee the performance measures for may adjust or amend awards in accordance the PSP to ensure they remain with the PSP rules.
The Committee would consult with major shareholders in advance of a change in performance measures used for the Performance Share Plan.
No more than 25% of an award vests for threshold performance.
UK tax advantaged all-employee share plans Share plans available to Executive Directors are eligible to Maximum in accordance n a all UK employees in the participate in any of the Groups allwith statutory limits.
Group who satisfy the employee share plans on the same statutory requirements.
terms as other UK employees.
Legacy plans The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS expired in 2011.
Options granted under this plan were subject to performance criteria.
Outstanding options granted up to and including May 2011 continue to be exercisable in the normal fashion, having satisfied the performance criteria attaching to them.
54 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
