Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors committed sufficient time during Board composition and balance the year to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Articles.
Non-Executive Chairman 1 Non-Executive Directors 4 Executive Directors 2 In accordance with the provisions of the Code it is our intention to conduct an external independent evaluation of Length of Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Board effectiveness and performance and that of its principal Committees at least every three years.
0-4 years 2 5-9 years 1 10 years 2 In 2013 the Board evaluation was conducted by independent At all times during the year at least half of the Board members, external facilitators IDDAS.
This year an internal performance excluding the Chairman, were Independent Non-Executive evaluation, led by the Senior Independent Director and Directors except for the period between the retirement of supported by the Group Legal Director & Secretary, was Clare Hollingsworth at the conclusion of the Companys conducted taking into account the principal themes which Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2014 and the appointment had emerged from the 2013 external evaluation.
The review of Liz Hewitt on 24 June 2014. concluded that the Board was well structured and had the necessary blend of skills and experience.
It was noted that The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct significant progress had been made in delivering the Groups and separate and their roles and responsibilities are clearly strategic objectives over the preceding five years, in particular established.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the in completing the targeted expansion into the US and delivering effective engagement and contribution of all Executive and the targeted step change in scale for the Groups investment Non-Executive Directors.
The Group Chief Executive has management platform.
The review also reconfirmed the need responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance for the Board to plan to ensure effective succession at Board with the authority delegated by the Board.
There are a number and senior management level, and, in this context, and with of areas where the Board has delegated specific responsibility the expansion of the Group for the Board to spend time to management, including responsibility for the operational meeting with senior managers below Group Executive Board management of the Groups businesses as well as reviewing level in each of the Groups Principal Businesses as part of strategic issues and risk matters in advance of these being the annual cycle of presentations on these businesses.
considered by the Board and or its Committees.
Except as explained above, in relation to the number of Independent Overall, the Board considers the performance of each Non-Executive Directors, the Board considers that throughout Director to be effective and concluded that both the Board the year the Company was in full compliance with the Code.
and its Committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive The Shareholders should therefore support their re-election Directors brings considerable management expertise and is to the Board at the AGM in May.
The Board will continue an Independent Non-Executive Director, being independent to reviews its procedures, effectiveness and development.
of management and having no business or other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their The skills and experience of the Directors, are set out on judgement.
In particular, and notwithstanding his long service page 40. on the Board, the Board continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains entirely independent in character and Diversity judgement.
Martin Angle is the Senior Independent Director The Board is aware that the number of women on boards and is available to shareholders if they have concerns remains a topic for debate for companies and regulators.
which have not been addressed by contact with the We agree fully with the spirit and aspirations of the Davies Chairman and or Group Chief Executive.
Report to increase the number of women on company boards.
However, we continue to view diversity in its broadest sense with a view to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
Our focus remains on attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or diversity.
42 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity Nomination Committee Report across all areas of the Group.
In a sector which historically has struggled to retain a high percentage of female leaders, we are striving to redress the balance with our successful graduate recruitment programme which aims to have a balanced intake of males and females and should help to ensure that there continues to be a diversity of talent within the Company from which we can draw the future leaders Peter Smith of our Company.
The Companys policy on diversity applies Chairman of the across all levels of the Group, further details of which can Nomination Committee be found in the Resources and Responsibilities section on pages 18 to 22.
The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in The biographies of the Board members appear on page 40. ensuring that the Board and its principal Committees have the right mix of skills, experience and diversity to deliver Group Board induction and training strategy and to create value.
To ensure a full understanding of Savills and its businesses, on appointment each new Director undergoes a comprehensive In consultation with the Chairmen of the principal Committees, and tailored induction programme which introduces the Director the Nomination Committee will continue to monitor the needs of to the Groups businesses, its operations, strategic plans, the Board and its Committees in the context of Group strategy, key risks and its governance policies.
The induction also with the aim of ensuring that the Groups succession planning includes one to one briefings from the Heads of the Principal policy evolves such that there is an identifiable supply of talent Businesses and an introduction to each Group businesss and experience available to the Board and its Committees from development strategy.
The Directors receive regular updates on developments in legal and regulatory matters.
Meetings Attendance table Directors conflicts of interest Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to Meetings avoid situations in which they have, or could have, an interest Meetings eligible to Committee member attended attend that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the Peter Smith 2 2 relevant matter has been authorised by the other Directors Martin Angle 2 2 in accordance with the Articles.
The Board has adopted a Tim Freshwater 2 2 set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and approved Liz Hewitt 1 1 a process for identifying current and future actual and potential conflicts of interest.
It was also agreed that the Nomination Clare Hollingsworth 1 1 Committee would review authorised conflicts at least annually Jeremy Helsby 2 2 or if and when a new potential conflict situation was identified or a potential conflict situation materialised.
During 2014, Liz Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 24 June 2014. actual and potential conflicts of interest that were identified by each Director were subsequently authorised by the Clare Hollingsworth retired from the Board from the conclusion of the Annual Nomination Committee, subject to appropriate conditions General Meeting of the Company held on 12 May 2014. in accordance with the guiding principles.
As at 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this Report, the Nomination Committee was primarily composed of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members is shown on page 40.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 43
