Resources and relationships Key highlights in 2014 People.
We: We: Continued with our strategy of investing in people Increased the number of global offices achieving by introducing a new four-level leadership and IS0140012004 accreditation management programme Maintain a BREEAM excellent rating for our UK head office Participated in the UK Best Companies to Work for Extended the number of our offices within the scope of our Employment Engagement survey global greenhouse gas emission reporting into our environmental processes Clients.
We: We: Maintained our commitment to delivering the high Retained our membership of FTSE4Good, evidencing our quality services expected by our clients and demanded commitment to meeting globally recognised corporate by our business by building on the strength of our existing responsibility standards cross-border inter-regional service capacity, by sharing best practice and experiences and by listening to client feedback Continuously improving our client service by promoting our client advocate roles and expanding our client care programme Corporate responsibility at Savills Policy Corporate responsibility CR is our commitment to the positive Savills is committed to being a good corporate citizen in all aspects impact that our business can make, through our people, to our of its operations and activities.
The Company, therefore, holds itself stakeholders and the communities in which we live and work.
accountable for its social, environmental and economic impacts on the people and places where it does business.
We endeavour to Overall responsibility for our CR programme sits with the manage these impacts in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Group Chief Executive and the Board.
CR strategy is overseen To fulfil this aim the Group actively embraces a range of policies and by our CR Steering Group, comprising senior representatives practices that aim to foster a positive approach towards corporate from a range of businesses and central teams.
CR strategy is responsibility as an integral part of our day to day activities.
implemented and delivered at country level across the four areas of CR which we believe are key to the success of our business: Our CR policy focuses on those key areas where we believe we People, Clients, Environment and Community.
By focusing on can make a difference: People, Training and Development, Ethics, these key areas we give our businesses the freedom to adapt Client Commitment and Health, Safety and Environment.
All of our quickly and to respond at local level to new opportunities in the businesses are expected to comply with local legal standards as an markets in which they operate.
The Board receives annual and absolute minimum, while our established global framework provides ad hoc updates on CR activities and progress.
To ensure that the flexibility required to have meaning and impact at local level.
we can readily identify emerging issues and respond to them At Savills, we learn through experience and we actively encourage on a timely basis, we continue to include the consideration of our businesses to share their experiences and develop best practice CR-related issues in our Key Risk Registers.
to ensure that we continue to improve as an organisation.
People Throughout this Report we refer to the importance of our people.
They are key to our continued success.
It is our vision to be the real estate advisor of choice in our selected markets and deliver superior financial performance and this can only be achieved through the dedication, commitment and excellence of our people.
The FTSE Group confirms that Savills plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to Savills is committed to providing employment on an equal basis remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
We support stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization.
capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery of the highest standards of client service through motivated and engaged people.
We believe that a positive culture is essential to high quality client service.
This positive culture is encapsulated in BREEAM is a registered trademark of BRE the Building Research Establishment our business philosophy and our values.
Our reputation has been Ltd. Community Trade Mark E5778551.
The BREEAM marks, logos and symbols built on our people and we believe that staff whose behaviours are the Copyright of BRE and are reproduced by permission.
reflect in our business philosophy deliver the excellent client service that we strive to provide.
Our business philosophy also captures our commitment to ethical, professional and responsible conduct and our entrepreneurial value-enhancing approach.
18 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Our business philosophy Pride in everything we do.
Help our people fulfil their true potential.
We: We: Take great pride in delivering the highest quality service.
Encourage an open and supportive culture in which Go the extra mile.
Seek to employ only the best people.
Help our people to excel through appropriate training Enjoy what we do.
Share success and reward achievement.
Recognise that our peoples diverse strengths combined We: with good teamwork produce the best results.
Believe that a rewarding workplace inspires and motivates.
Act with honesty and respect for other people.
Strive to provide an environment in which our people can Adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics.
flourish and succeed this allows us to recruit, motivate and retain talented people and build on our status as an Take an entrepreneurial approach to business.
We: Engage with our people to communicate our vision and Seek out new markets and opportunities for clients.
strategy through well established internal channels.
Take a creative and entrepreneurial approach to delivering value.
Are forward thinking, and always aim to build long-term client relationships.
Aim to be a leader in every market we enter.
Increasing employee engagement involved in some of the worlds most high-profile property deals This year we asked our employees in the UK to participate in and developments.
Graduates are surrounded by experienced the Best Companies to Work for Employee Engagement survey, professionals and team members from whom they can seek a people survey which allows us to measure and compare advice and learn.
Individual achievement is rewarded and Savills ourselves against other large organisations and helps to identify look for graduates with entrepreneurial flair.
In the UK our graduate ways to improve how we do things.
Over 1,000 companies and programme was recognised for the eighth year running as the 430,000 employees participated.
We have been recognised as Graduate Employer of Choice Property in The Times Graduate reaching One Star Status, demonstrating our commitment to Recruitment Awards 2014 and we continue to see a record progressive and engaging employment practices, and in 2015 number of applicants for this, and our student summer scheme we will focus on the areas highlighted for improvement.
Training and development We continue to work with some of our UK industry peers on the We firmly believe in the value of developing future talent from within Changing the Face of Property CTFOP on initiatives such as an the Group and the wider business community and we are working apprenticeship programme to offer jobs to school leavers and hard to help nurture the entrepreneurs and leaders of the future.
other junior candidates without a university education.
A new initiative for this group for 2015 is to invite Year 12 students from We continue to invest significantly in the development of all our across the UK into our businesses, who will shadow a current people for whom we recognise that career development and graduate so that they can find out more about the industry and progression is very important.
During 2014 we piloted a significant what a career in property could mean for them.
review of our leadership development programme.
We introduced a new four-tier leadership and management programme, based on Ethical commitment employee feedback.
The new programme, which is designed for Savills is committed to doing business legally and ethically graduates through to senior leaders, is now more closely aligned wherever it operates.
Savills Ethical Trading Policy is detailed to roles and responsibilities in the organisation.
We encourage in our Group Code of Conduct which is readily accessible in and support all our staff to complete their Continuous Professional local languages to all staff, to support their day to day decision Development CPD and all our internal courses programmes making.
We continue to maintain our focus on ensuring that our have CPD points associated with them.
We recognise that personal people worldwide work within our specified financial, operational development occurs in many ways and we encourage all our and compliance framework, and that these standards are staff, to attend conferences, internal events, and participate in consistently applied.
We demand the highest professional projects to supplement their CPD.
All of this is supported by a standards from all of our people all of the time and have a zero dedicated training team, divisional career roadmaps and a tolerance to breaches.
However, given the breadth of activities dedicated page on the Company intranet which pulls together and the number of people we employ there may be occasions all the information our people need to plan their personal when we do not meet the high standards we aspire to.
We will progressively extend this programme fail to reach these high standards, we treat any breach with the across our regional businesses in Asia, Europe and the US, utmost seriousness.
tailoring it as appropriate to best meet local requirements.
Human Rights Savills passionately believe that its graduates are the future At Savills we recognise our responsibility as a global corporate leaders.
Our graduates are given responsibility from day one, in citizen and we consider the concerns of the wider communities teams who highly value their contribution, allowing them to be where we conduct our business.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 19 Resources and relationships continued We are committed to doing the right thing in the right way and women at Board and senior levels within the organisation and this is reflected in the Savills Code of Conduct.
The Code, which to sustain an inclusive culture in which all talent can thrive.
underpins our social, ethical and environmental commitments, clearly sets out the standards of behaviour that we expect our As an organisation committed to diversity in its workforce, we employees to demonstrate and adhere to in their day to day will continue to strengthen our policies, processes and practices working life at Savills.
to develop our diversity and inclusion plans within the Groups markets and geographies, in alignment with our corporate goals.
As an absolute minimum, our employee policies comply with local legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We fully Clients support the principles of UN Global Compact, the UN Declaration Client care of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations We are committed to delivering a high quality service and ILO Core Conventions and we expect our business partners creating long-term partnerships with all our clients.
To do this we to operate in accordance with these standards.
place great importance on delivering exceptional client service over the longer term through building sustained relationships and Any breaches of our Code of Conduct may be reported in ensuring that the client experience of Savills is second to none.
accordance with Companys whistle-blowing procedure.
Client review meetings are a vital part of our approach to client Diversity and inclusion care and, as example, in the UK we invest in an independent Savills is a global company and across all parts of our business, client review programme to focus on how well we are doing in the we look to create an inclusive culture in which difference is way we plan and execute the services we provide, how well we accepted and valued.
We believe that our inclusive approach communicate and what additional value we give our clients.
This gives us a competitive advantage and underpins the success of provides an important independent rating of the standard of our our business by giving us the ability to select our employees from client service which is reviewed regularly and used to refine the highest quality individuals in the widest available pool of talent.
Savills top 100 clients now have a dedicated client relationship lead Client Advocate whose core responsibility Our employees come from a wide range of backgrounds and is to act as a focal point for client servicing enquiries, and in have a diverse range of skills and experience.
We have created particular to allow any service issues on current instructions to a culture in which those skills, experience and perspectives are be quickly identified and addressed.
These client advocates also nurtured and encouraged.
play a key role in reviewing our performance with the client in tandem with the client research programme to ensure that we At Savills, we have long realised that our reputation as a quality understand where we have met or exceeded expectations and global real estate provider of choice is built on our people and those areas in which we can do better.
Ultimately this ensures that they are fundamental to the success of the business.
that we have awareness of our clients real estate plans so that we can make the appropriate resources available.
Our client We respect our people for who they are, their knowledge, advocates are supported by an IT platform which harmonises skills and experience, as individuals and as valued members client data into readily accessible client intelligence reports.
We work together to bring out the best in To complement this initiative we recognise that there are clients each other and to sustain the strong working relationship ethic that benefit from a full Savills service offering and to meet these that has nurtured our can do attitude.
As at 31 December 2014 demands, we have a full client programme in place with a our total global workforce of 27,826 colleagues, comprised dedicated Client Relationship Management CRM team.
Of these 175 were senior of these clients has a client care plan which includes a review of executives 156 males, 19 females comprising members of the the current year, meeting schedule for key contracts, financials Group Executive Board and Board members of the corporate for the year to date and future years, a client communication plan entities whose financial information is incorporated in the and a list of agreed actions and responsibilities.
The CRM team Groups 2014 consolidated accounts in this Annual Report.
meet quarterly and report annually into the UK Board.
The Companys Board of Directors comprised seven members, six males and one female.
Health, Safety and Environment Environment Historically ours has been an industry which has struggled Savills and its associates operate from more than 600 offices to recruit a high percentage of female graduates and we are around the world.
We also manage buildings for clients through encouraged that our graduate recruitment programme is our property management teams.
Savills adopts a practical, results helping to redress the balance at Savills where we have a driven approach to managing its environmental impacts.
Our aim 50 50 male to female ratio of graduates.
is to continually enhance the environmental performance of our businesses.
We also try to make a difference by helping our Prior to any new appointment consideration is given to diversity associates and clients to achieve their environmental goals, by in its broadest sense, with a view to appointing the best placed providing quality advice, incorporating the principles of sustainability.
By actively seeking to reduce our environmental impact we are able Building a diverse and inclusive culture to achieve increased operational efficiencies and savings, both Our aim is to have a workforce that is representative of the internally and for our clients.
countries and the communities in which we live and work and we will continue to endeavour to improve the representation of Our policy and these principles are implemented through our operating businesses and day to day actions.
20 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements In 2014 Savills has again been acknowledged by the Carbon As can be seen from the results in the table below, our total Disclosure Project CDP for its transparent and committed emissions increased by approximately 15% from 2013 to 2014, approach to implementing this environmental strategy.
Some although this increase does not take into account the expanded 4,000 organisations around the globe measure and disclose their reporting boundary in 2014.
The corresponding figures for our greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies as part per capita intensity ratio, however, show an overall reduction of of the CDP.
This data is collected annually on behalf of institutional approximately 11%.
Such a reduction reflects the measures we investors, purchasing organisations and various government have developed globally, and applied locally, to lower our carbon bodies.
In the 2014 CDP FTSE 350 report, Savills achieved a footprint.
In subsequent years, we are confident these and other disclosure result of 93 out of a possible 100. related measures will enable further substantial improvements to be made with our per capita emissions.
As part of this continuing drive to mitigate our environmental impacts, and as a hallmark of quality for our clients, our offices 1 Total Global Emissions for Carbon Reporting 2014 continue to work to secure ISO14001 2004: the international 1 GHG Emissions Scopes 1 2 7,374 TCO e yr 2 standard for environmental management systems.
ISO14001 is 7,373 designed to help achieve sound environmental performance by Scope 1 Direct 1,638.32 using a proactive range of practical office management measures.
Scope 2 Energy Indirect 5,735.35 During 2014 a further 12 offices achieved this accreditation, bringing the total number of accredited offices in the UK alone to 77.
2 Total Gross Emissions 7,373.67 Our Australian operations released their first Sustainability Report Total Employees FTE av.
5,800 3 GHG Intensity Ratio 1.27 during World Green Building Week in 2014.
This report, which was developed using the  Global Reporting 4 Total Global Emissions for Carbon Reporting 2013 Initiatives framework of principles, protocols and performance 1 GHG Emissions Scopes 1 2 6,424 TCO e yr indicators, was well received internally, as well as attracting plaudits 2 6,424 from clients and industry groups.
Similar acclaim was received Scope 1 Direct 1,292.05 following the local release of the Green Tenancy Guide, which provides tenants with clear and helpful information on sustainability Scope 2 Energy Indirect 5,131.85 topics such as office equipment procurement, lighting, water, 2 Total Gross Emissions 6,423.90 waste, fit-outs and green leases.
4,508 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement 3 GHG Intensity Ratio 1.425 This Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement includes all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Notes: 1 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 for Emissions Factors based on Defra DECC Guidelines 2011 and other globally recognised methodologies.
the financial year to 31 December 2014, compared against our baseline year to 31 December 2013.
2 Total global emissions for Carbon Reporting 2014: UK, Rest of Europe, Australia New Zealand and Hong Kong.
For 2014, we have expanded the scope of data collection for 3 Total Gross Emissions, divided by Total Full Time Equivalent Employees FTE our environmental reporting on global greenhouse gas GHG Year Average.
We are now reporting on GHG emissions from our UK, Europe, US part, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, 4 Retrospective adjustments have been made to the reported 2013 data figures to Japan and Singapore operations.
In subsequent years, we enable accurate year on year comparison.
will seek to expand the scope of our reporting to include more locations.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard methodology to identify our GHG inventory of Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect emissions.
Relevant emission factors, drawn from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, along with other recognised regional reporting standards, have then been applied to complete the emission calculations.
In a few cases where reliable data was not available we have extrapolated total emissions by using available information from part of the reporting period.
So as to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor relevant to our wide ranging activities, we have used a per capita intensity ratio i. e. our full-time employee numbers, as we believe this provides the best comparative measure over time for our Company.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 21 Resources and relationships continued Creating a safe place to work As well as delivering social benefits, we believe greater Savills is committed at the highest level to providing a safe community engagement increases staff commitment and and healthy working environment for all staff and others who provides real-life development opportunities.
This year, Savills UK are affected by our businesses so as to minimise the risk of graduates partnered with Dreams Come True, a charity which injury and ill health.
make dreams come true for terminally and seriously ill children and young adults between the ages of 2 to 21 throughout the Safe working practices form an integral part of our day to UK.
Savills supported the charity in a variety of ways including day business and we aim to find practical solutions to health organising various fundraisers including sponsoring runners and safety risks.
To this end, our safety strategy is focused on of the Great North Run and London Marathon, a cricket day priorities such as reducing occupational exposure to workplace auction, and a Dreams Come True childrens party which hazards, maintaining regulatory compliance and seeking to was held at Hamleys toy store in London.
continuously develop and strengthen our health and safety arrangements.
In Asia, in recognition of Savills Guardians efforts in support of charitable causes, Savills Guardian was awarded a number of In 2014 we focused upon a number of training initiatives and corporate volunteer awards.
This includes an acknowledgement of awareness programmes using a variety of communication Savills Guardians participation in the Caring Company Scheme with channels, in order to ensure Health & Safety H&S remained it now holding the Caring Company 10 consecutive years logo.
We also introduced a dedicated online H&S forum to further enhance interaction amongst our global During 2014 Savills Studley, Inc. actively participated and network of H&S Champions.
contributed to not-for-profit organisations both nationally and regionally.
During 2014 this included the Juvenile Diabetes During the current year we will continue to promote our positive Research Foundation, Pediatric Cancer Research Foundation safety culture with further localised training and country specific and the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank.
One national example safety campaigns.
We also aim to enhance our current audit is the Lee National Denim Day, the worlds largest single-day coverage in order to demonstrate our commitment to continuous fundraiser in support of breast cancer research which Savills improvement of safe working practices.
Studley have been involved with since 2005.
Community The UK operates a Give As You Earn scheme which allows staff Charitable giving to donate a portion of their monthly salary to a registered charity.
Supporting communities in which we operate remains an We also operate a profit share waiver scheme whereby staff can integral part of our operations.
elect to waive an element of any annual profit share in favour of registered charities of their choice upon which the Group Our offices and our people are actively involved in their augments the donation to the chosen charity by 10%.
communities through our support of charitable causes and other social and business organisations, including making Future plans financial, in kind and time contributions.
At a local level, we have It has been another year of development and progress and this developed a series of community engagement programmes is reflected in this years CR report and throughout this document.
which have a positive impact on the areas where our people Going forward, we will seek to further develop and strengthen live and work to ensure that Savills is firmly engaged with the our CR approach by continuing to focus on those activities where communities we serve.
The stories below represent only a few we are best placed to make a significant contribution.
examples from across the globe of the wide variety of activities undertaken by Savills and its employees during 2014.
During the year, Savills UK main charity of choice was LandAid, a charity which works to improve the lives of children and young people in the UK who experience disadvantage due to their economic or social circumstances.
To raise money our people took part in many fundraising events large and small.
One such fundraiser was the London TowerAthlon, which saw each competitor undertaking the physical challenge that tested speed, strength and courage involving abseiling a 539ft tower, running up 35 floors and cycling as far as possible in 10 minutes.
22 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
