Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction skills and different perspectives to the Board and to complement the experience of our longer serving Directors so as to achieve an appropriate balance and position us to continue to challenge and debate corporate strategy.
Following the retirement of Clare Hollingsworth in May 2014 we Peter Smith Chairman set out to find a suitable candidate to fill the vacancy created on the Board and its Committees.
I am pleased to report that on 24 June 2014, Liz Hewitt was appointed as a Non-Executive The Board of Savills is committed to maintaining the highest Director.
Liz has extensive experience which will complement standards of corporate governance and understands that an and further enhance the wide-ranging skills and experience of effective, challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the the Board and its Committees.
Company to deliver its strategy and long-term shareholder value.
Further information on our strategy and business model can be The Board consisted of a majority of independent Non-Executive found on pages 2 to 27.
Directors excluding the Chairman throughout the year.
Details of all the current Directors, their skills and experience are set out on We continue to work hard to create a culture where doing the page 40.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance right thing is at the core of how we do business.
The Board Code, all Directors with the exception of Liz Hewitt who will seek recognises our duty to set the right tone at the top in order to election for the first time, will stand for re-election at the Annual guide our organisations behaviour and ensure that we live by and General Meeting AGM on 13 May 2015. demonstrate the right values which in turn enable entrepreneurial and prudent management of the resources to deliver long-term Diversity success for the Group and its stakeholders.
From the Board We believe that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving down we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of the success of the business, and we fully support the Davies corporate governance.
We fully recognise that in an increasingly Reports aspiration to promote greater female representation regulated global market, at the heart of every successful on listed company boards.
During the year, the Savills Board organisation is a good corporate governance structure and we had one female Non-Executive Director, except for the period seek to create an environment in which transparency, honesty, between the retirement of Clare Hollingsworth at the conclusion integrity and fairness are valued and practiced by our people of the Companys AGM on 12 May 2014 and the appointment of every day.
Our Code of Conduct is readily accessible in all local Liz Hewitt on 24 June 2014, representing 20% of Non-Executive languages to all staff to support their day to day decision making.
We also had one other Non-Executive We demand the highest professional standards from all of our Director who is based in Hong Kong.
Our focus remains on people all of the time and we have a zero tolerance approach to attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or breaches of the Code of Conduct.
As and when Board appointments arise, we will look to follow the procedures recommended by the Davies Report and Board and Committee composition by the UK Corporate Governance Code to maintain a balanced Ensuring that we do the right thing in the right way requires the Board.
Our policy on page 42 summarises our approach to right leadership and it is important in my role as Chairman to diversity and what this means for our business and our people.
ensure that the Board has the right composition.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company People and training and how it is directed and controlled, so our performance is At Savills, our people are the key to our continued success.
thoroughly tested through an annual Board evaluation.
For the As an international business, we benefit from our Non-Executive last four years we have conducted a formal, externally facilitated Directors other current roles in Hong Kong and China, the review of each Directors skills and contribution and that of the Middle East, Russia and Central Europe, and the US.
We will Board as a whole and its Committees in the context of the ensure that our employees are equipped with the skills and Companys business model and the evolving strategic needs of insight required to deliver the high quality service we demand the business.
This year we conducted an in-house evaluation of for our clients.
We do this by continuing to invest in our future by the performance of the Board.
The process and key findings are recruiting, training, developing and retaining the best people and explained on page 38.
Following this review, I am satisfied that providing them with the necessary tools and supporting systems the Board is performing effectively.
This positions us to both drive key growth and deliver our ambitions and allows our people to develop on The Board also reviews Non-Executive Director independence a professional and personal level as individuals.
Details of our on an annual basis and takes into account the individuals Corporate Responsibility activities and progress made during professional characteristics, their behaviour at Board meetings the year can be found in our Resources and Responsibilities and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
All Report on pages 18 to 22. of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent, including Charles McVeigh, notwithstanding Remuneration his long service.
We have a clear and transparent approach to remuneration, including Directors remuneration.
Our approach is a simple one, We are pleased that as confirmed by this years Board review where greater emphasis is placed on the performance-related good progress has been made against the actions that the Board elements of the total remuneration package to ensure a close set itself in 2014 and we are confident that your Board has the alignment between performance and reward and so with right balance of skills, experience and diversity of personality to shareholders interests.
More details of the Remuneration continue to encourage open, transparent debate and challenge.
Committees activities during the year, a breakdown of Directors remuneration and Non-Executives fees for the year and our We recognise the importance of planning for the future.
Our forward-looking remuneration policy, can be found on pages corporate strategy and business model are underpinned by a 49 to 67. succession planning policy designed to progressively bring new Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 35
