Corporate Governance Statement continued During the year, the Committee comprised the Independent interviewed by Peter Smith and the Chief Executive.
Liz Hewitt Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman and the was identified as the preferred candidate and then met with the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee Chairman is Group other Non-Executive Directors.
The unanimous recommendation Chairman, Peter Smith save in circumstances where the of the Committee to the Board was that Liz Hewitt be appointed Chairmans succession is considered.
Any other Director, as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 24 June 2014.
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary or an external adviser may be invited by the Committee to attend the Coming year meetings from time to time, as appropriate.
In the coming year we will continue to keep the Boards composition under review and the Committee will consider The Committee meets at least twice a year, or as required, how it may be enhanced to ensure that the Board continues and met twice during 2014.
There was full attendance at all to reflect the needs of the Company and its shareholders.
meetings by members, as shown in the table above.
Members of the Committee also attend the Companys AGM at which there Accountability is an opportunity to meet with shareholders.
The Committee Chairman is on hand to answer questions in the event that Internal control and risk management shareholders ask specific questions related to the Nomination The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and Committee and its activities.
internal controls across the Group.
This responsibility includes the determination of the nature and extent of the principal risks Committee objective and activities the Board is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and The primary objective of the Committee is to review the size and for ensuring that an appropriate culture has been embedded composition of the Board and its key Committees and to plan for throughout the organisation.
Risk management is implemented its progressive refreshing, with regard to balance and structure.
The Board is supported by the Audit Committee in discharging its oversight duties with regard to The Committee has standing items that it considers regularly internal control and risk management.
under its Terms of Reference, for example the Committee considered and approved Directors potential conflicts of interest Whilst the Board is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate and reviewed its own Terms of Reference which are reviewed at culture has been embedded throughout the organisation and least annually or as required, e. g. to reflect changes to the UK establishing, maintaining the Groups system of risk management Corporate Governance Code or as a result of changes in and internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and regulations or best practice.
the Groups assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system, such a system is designed to manage rather than More detailed information on the role and responsibilities of eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives the Committee can be found in the Committees Terms of and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance Reference which can be accessed on the Companys website against material misstatement or loss.
Further details of the at www.
risk management process, the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the associated mitigating actions Succession planning and diversity are set out on pages 23 to 26.
The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors and key Senior The Boards attitude and appetite to risk is communicated to Executives with consideration to gender and diversity in its widest the Groups businesses through the strategy planning processes.
Before making an appointment, the Committee assesses The Audit Committee monitors the ongoing status and progress the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and of action plans against key risks on a regular basis and reports diversity of the Board and, in view of this assessment, will draw its findings to the Board.
up a description of the role and competencies needed, with a view to appointing the best placed individual for the role.
In making Going Concern a recommendation to the Board on a Non-Executive Director The Groups business activities, together with the factors appointment, the Nomination Committee specifically considers the considered likely to affect its future development, performance expected time commitment of the proposed Non-Executive and and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 27. other commitments they may already have.
The Company uses The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity recruitment consultants to assist the Committee in delivering its position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 32 objectives and responsibilities.
No Director is involved in decisions to 34.
In addition, Note 3 to the financial statements includes regarding his or her own succession.
the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details Appointments to the Board of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its In anticipation of Clare Hollingsworths retirement from the exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Board at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and prior to external recruitment consultants being appointed to search for a new The Group has considerable financial resources, including a Non-Executive Director, the qualities sought for that role were 150m committed revolving credit facility augmented by a 30m agreed by the Board.
The Nomination Committee engaged accordion option which can be activated to increase the facility independent executive search firm Spencer Stuart as recruitment that runs to June 2017.
The Group has a broad geographic consultants in respect of its search for a suitable candidate as presence, service offering and extensive client spread ensuring a Non-Executive Director and oversaw the selection process.
that the Group is not over-dependent on one geography, service Spencer Stuart were asked to compile a long list of potential line or client.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the candidates which was reduced to a final shortlist of three Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The three candidates were then 44 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a Audit Committee Report reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Report and Accounts.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with shareholders Martin Angle The Group recognises the importance of maintaining regular Chairman of the dialogue with its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive Audit Committee and Group Chief Financial Officer lead a regular programme of meetings and presentations with analysts and investors, including presentations following the publication of the Companys full The Committee welcomes the 2014 UK Corporate Governance and half year results.
This programme maintains a continuous Code and the changes that this introduces to Corporate two-way dialogue between the Company and shareholders, and Governance in the UK, and the FRCs Guidance on Risk helps to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholders views on Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and a timely basis.
The Board also normally receives feedback twice Business Reporting, both published in September 2014.
The each year from its corporate brokers on investors and the changes introduced by the 2014 Code regarding the robust markets perceptions of the Company.
The Chairman and the assessment of principal risks and how they are being managed Senior Independent Director are also available to meet and mitigated, and carrying out a review of the effectiveness of shareholders if so required.
The Company has enjoyed and is risk management and internal control systems, are already, and appreciative of the significant shareholder support that it has will continue to be, focus areas for the Committee.
enjoyed in recent years in relation to the Groups remuneration policy, and in particular the Remuneration Committee welcomed The Audit Committee has a key role in ensuring the integrity of shareholders endorsement of the Remuneration Policy and 2013 the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness of its risk Annual Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM.
The Company management processes and internal controls.
During the year, continues to welcome shareholder views with regard to the its activities continued to be focused on the integrity and quality Groups Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Committee of the Groups financial reporting, the performance of the internal gives due consideration to such views when raised.
Details of and external audit processes and the suitability of the Groups Companys response to any shareholder views raised would system of internal governance and control including receiving be included in the relevant years Remuneration Report.
and considering reports from the Groups Internal Audit team on the Groups businesses and central functions and a broad Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting AGM range of compliance related matters.
The Committee will The AGM provides the Board with a valuable opportunity to continue to develop its activities in the light of regulatory and communicate with private shareholders and is generally attended best practice developments.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions before and during the meeting and to meet The Audit Committee has reviewed the content of this years Directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the Annual Report and Accounts and has advised the Board that, meeting.
In accordance with the Code, the level and manner in its view, the Report taken as a whole is in its opinion fair, of voting of proxies lodged on each resolution at the AGM is balanced and understandable and that it provides the information declared at the meeting and published on the Companys necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, website.
The outcome of the votes cast at the 2014 AGM in performance, business model and strategy.
respect of the 2013 Directors Remuneration report can be found on page 67.
The Directors aim to give as much notice The Committee noted the unqualified opinion from the of the AGM and other general meetings as possible, which is External Auditors.
at least 20 working days before the meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Meetings Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2015 AGM can Attendance table be found in the AGM Notice which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
Meetings Meetings eligible to Committee member attended attend In accordance with the Articles of Association, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be Martin Angle 4 4 received not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
Tim Freshwater 4 4 Liz Hewitt 3 3 The Company has taken advantage of the provisions within the Clare Hollingsworth 1 1 Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 which allow communications with shareholders to be made electronically where shareholders have not requested hard copy documentation.
Details of the Liz Hewitt was appointed as a Director of the Company on 24 June 2014.
Clare Hollingsworth retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on information available to shareholders can be found on page 128.
Information about the Company is also available on the Companys website www.
As at 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this Report, the Audit Committee was composed entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers the Committee members to have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical details of the Committee members are shown on page 40.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 45 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Committee met four times during the year and there was Main activities and responsibilities of the Committee full attendance at all meetings by all members, as shown in the during the financial year table on page 45.
The Committee works to a planned programme of activities focused on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle.
Although they are not members of the Committee the This includes standing items that the Committee considers Non-Executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief regularly under its Terms of Reference.
To enable the Committee Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Director of to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, it relies on Risk & Internal Audit and Group Legal Director & Company information and support from management across the business.
Secretary attend each meeting, as does the lead audit partner The Committee reviews reports and presentations from business from the Groups External Auditors.
Other senior executives management and the heads of key functions and the Internal and from across the Group are invited to present such reports as External Auditors, questions and where appropriate, challenges are required for the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
information and reports its findings back to the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee meets informally and is in The principal activities of the Committee during the year are set regular contact with the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group out below: Director of Risk & Internal Audit and Group Legal Director & Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities Company Secretary and senior members of the external audit Financial Reporting Review and discussion of the key accounting team.
This group develops the Committees proposed annual considerations and judgements reflected in work plan for consideration by the Committee and generally the Groups results for the half year ended on meets ahead of each full Committee meeting to prepare and 30 June 2014 identify key areas for consideration by the Committee.
The Review and discussion of the key accounting Committee meets separately with the External Auditors considerations and judgements reflected in without management being present.
the Groups results for the year ended on 31 December 2014 The Chairman of the Committee also attends the AGM to respond External Audit Agreement of the external audit strategy and to any shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
scope for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Considering and where appropriate approving Composition the instruction of the Groups External Auditors The Audit Committee is chaired by Martin Angle: he is supported by on non-audit assignments during the year two independent Non-Executive Directors Tim Freshwater and Liz ended 31 December 2014 Hewitt.
Liz Hewitt will become Committee Chairman when Martin Review and consideration of the External Angle stands down as Committee Chairman although he will Auditors Report for the year ended remain a Committee member at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
31December 2014, including the External Auditors observations on the Groups Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board Internal Control environment following recommendations by the Nomination Committee and Discussed the External Auditors performance membership is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee during the year as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Compliance, Review of the Groups whistle-blowing Whistleblowing arrangements, reports made under these All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction and Fraud arrangements during the year ended 31 December which includes an overview of the business, its financial 2014 and the result of consequent investigations dynamics and risks and meetings with senior management.
Internal Audit Reviewing and approving the internal audit plan Committee members are expected to have an understanding of Receiving and considering reports from the Groups the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting Internal Audit team covering various aspects of the and their application as well as the roles of the internal and Groups operations, controls and processes and external audit functions.
monitoring the progress made by management in addressing recommendations arising out of Role, objectives and responsibilities these reports The Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties Internal Controls Reviewing and considering the Groups risk and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and in and Risk Management registers and advising the Board on risk appetite Systems making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Review the work and effectiveness of the Group independent External Auditors.
The Committee is responsible for Risk Committee the scope and results of the audit work, its cost effectiveness and Review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors.
management system and internal controls in place to manage the Groups principal risks.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its Terms of Reference a copy of which can be found in the governance section of the Companys website at www.
In particular during the year, the Committees actions included com and has access to the services of the Group Legal Director developing our assurance framework in support of the 3 Lines & Company Secretary and, where necessary, the authority to of Defence model.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups obtain external legal or other independent professional advice response to the extended financial sanctions regime introduced in the fulfilment of its duties.
globally during the year, the implementation of the Groups Code of Conduct which, in particular, addresses bribery and The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Groups corruption risks, and the effectiveness of the European business whistle-blowing arrangements, including ensuring that appropriate control framework.
Tax and treasury risks were also reviewed to arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, in ensure that effective controls were in place and that the Groups confidence, matters of alleged impropriety, and for ensuring treasury risk appetite continued to be met following the major that appropriate follow-up actions are taken.
acquisition of Savills Studley, Inc. in 2014.
46 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Financial reporting and significant accounting issues Internal Audit The significant accounting issues considered by the Committee The provision of Internal Audit services during 2014 was delivered and discussed with the External Auditors during the year were: by the Groups Internal Audit team with support from external adviser, BDO LLP, where appropriate.
The Boards responsibility Matter considered Action for internal control and risk is detailed on page 36 and is Management The Committee considered the presumed risk of incorporated into this Report by reference.
override of management override of internal controls as defined internal controls by the auditing standards.
In so doing, the Committee During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the reviewed the robustness and effectiveness of the Internal Audit plan, having regard to the complementary roles of overall control environment of the Group, including the Internal and External Audit functions.
The Committee ensured consideration of the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements and the reviews conducted by the that the Internal Audit team had the necessary resources and Internal and External Auditors, and was satisfied information made available to it to enable it to fulfil its mandate to that there were no issues arising the appropriate professional standards.
The Committee reviewed Goodwill The Committee received reports from management Internal Audit reports on a regular basis and the Group Director impairment on the carrying value of the Groups businesses, including of Risk & Internal Audit attended meetings and presented to the goodwill.
The Committee reviewed managements Committee.
In assessing the performance of the Internal Audit recommendations, which were also considered by function, the Committee considered and monitored their the External Auditors, including evaluation of the effectiveness in the context of the Companys risk management appropriateness of the assumptions applied in determining asset carrying values.
After review, the system and took into account managements assessment Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and of and responsiveness to the Internal Auditors findings and judgements applied by management and, with the recommendations and reports from the External Auditors support of the External Auditors, concluded that other on any issues identified during the course of their work.
than in relation to the carrying value of the Groups investment in Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities No.
II Assessment of Risk Management and Internal Control Fund, where an impairment charge of 0.6m was recorded reducing the carrying value to 0.5m reflecting The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviewed the market conditions in Italy and the fact that this closed fund effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal reaches the end of its scheduled life in 2015, no further control.
As a result, it is considered that the Board has fulfilled impairment of carrying values was required its obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Presumed risk of The Committee considered the presumed risk of fraud In performing its review of effectiveness, the Committee fraud in revenue as defined by the auditing standards and was satisfied considered the following reports and activities: recognition that there were no issues arising Provisions for The Committee reviewed the provisions held in relation internal audit reports on the review of the controls across Litigation to each significant legal case and assessed the the Group and the monitoring of management actions arising appropriateness of these as at 31 December 2014 from these reviews: taking into account the Groups insurance cover and the managements own assessment of risk and the performance advice received from external counsel to ensure that appropriate provision had been made.
The Committee of the system of risk management and internal control agreed with the position taken by management in during 2014: respect of this matter reports from the Group Director of Risk & Internal Audit Accounting for The Committee considered the accounting treatment including reports on Group wide risk assessment activity the acquisition of the acquisition of 100% of Studley, Inc. by the and annual self assessment findings: and of Studley, Inc Group on 30 May 2014 for a total payment of up to reports from the External Auditors on any issues identified 153m.
Provisional goodwill of 88.1m and other during the course of their work.
intangible assets of 4.1m had been recognised on acquisition in the half year accounts.
These figures Having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal had subsequently been adjusted for the disposal of control, the Committee was satisfied that necessary actions have Studleys investment in AOS Holdings S. A. in France been, or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or in October 2014 2.5m adjustment.
After review, the weaknesses identified.
Committee agreed that the acquisition had been appropriately accounted for and disclosed in the financial statements The integrity of the Groups relationship with the External Auditor and the effectiveness of the External Audit process Regulatory During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups The Committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the compliance policies and procedures around regulatory risks, obligations including but not limited to: external audit process and considered the reappointment of  LLP PwC and the appropriateness whistle-blower reports: of its fees.
The review covered a broad range of matters, reports on anti bribery and corruption procedures: and including amongst, other factors, the quality of PwC staff, its the Groups Client Acceptance procedures, with expertise and resources and the independence of the PwC audit.
particular reference to the Groups Anti-Money Laundering procedures and the introduction of In the course of its review, the Committee considered the audit extended financial sanctions regimes globally.
plan for the year and determined how the External Auditors The Committee was satisfied that there were no had performed to the plan.
In deciding whether to recommend significant issues in this area.
the reappointment of PwC, the Committee considered the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which require judgement, the strength and depth of the lead partners at key locations, and feedback from Savills management.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 47 Corporate Governance Statement continued There were no significant findings arising from the evaluation The Committee considers on an ongoing basis, the this year and the Committee concluded that both the audit independence of the External Auditors and has established and the audit process were effective.
It therefore recommended policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of to the Board that PwC be reappointed as External Auditors appointing the External Auditors to perform non-audit services, for a further year.
Accordingly, a resolution recommending their including consideration as to whether the External Auditors reappointment will be put to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
are the most suitable supplier of such services.
In 2012, the Financial Reporting Council FRC amended the During the year, PwC was paid 1.2m for audit services.
PwC UK Corporate Governance Code to require audit tendering every also provided certain non-audit services to the Group, principally 10years on a comply or explain basis for FTSE350 Companies advice on taxation and transaction related matters, for which it such as Savills.
This new provision applies to financial years was paid a further 1.6m.
PwC were engaged on transaction beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The FRC also suggested related matters, principally the Studley, Inc. acquisition to provide non-binding transitional arrangements with respect to audit an understanding of the prospective integration and to consider tendering.
The UK Corporate Governance Code provisions with the cultural fit of the two organisations.
Details of the fees paid regards to appointments of statutory auditors and the requirement to the External Auditors can be found in Note 7.3 to the financial to conduct mandatory tenders every 10 years continue to apply statements.
Contracts for non-audit services in excess of 0.1m to the Company and the Company is required to comply with require Committee approval.
Below this level the Chairman of such provisions of the Code or explain any non-compliance.
the Audit Committee is notified of new instructions for the delivery of non-audit services.
On 26 September 2014, the Competition Commission CC, now the Competition Markets Authority CMA, published its final The Committee is satisfied that in view of their knowledge Order on mandatory audit tendering for FTSE350 Companies and experience of the Company PwC was best placed to such as Savills.
This Order came into effect on 1January 2015 provide such non-audit services and that their objectivity and and applies to financial years beginning on or after 1January independence has not been impaired by reason of this further 2015.
The Order confirms that FTSE350 Companies will need to work.
However, in line with the Companys policy on the provision undertake a tendering process in respect of their statutory audit of non-audit work, the Committee will review the provision of services at least every 10 years.
Furthermore, if a company has non-audit work provided by the External Auditors on a case not completed a tendering appointment process of statutory by case basis.
auditors for five consecutive financial years, the Order requires the Audit Committee of such company to state in its annual The following non-audit services may not be provided by the report when the Company intends to conduct the tender and External Auditors: why such proposed date is in the best interests of the Company and such statement must be repeated in each subsequent bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting report until a competitive tender is conducted.
records or financial statements: financial information systems design and implementation: The requirement for conducting mandatory audit tenders every Internal Audit outsourcing services: 10 years is subject to transitional arrangements set out in the management functions or human resources advice: or Order and, accordingly, this requirement does not apply to advising on senior executive including Executive Director PwCs proposed reappointment as External Auditors which remuneration.
will be proposed to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
To further safeguard the independence of the Companys PwC has been the Companys Auditors since 2001 when it won External Auditors and the integrity of the audit process, a tender for the external audit.
The senior partner responsible recruitment of senior employees from the External Auditors for the Groups audit must be rotated every five years to ensure is not allowed for an appropriate period after they cease to objectivity.
The last lead partner change took place in 2011. provide services to the Company.
The next lead partner change is scheduled for 2016.
Disclosure of relevant audit information The Committee has considered the FRCs suggested The Directors confirm that, insofar as they are each aware, non-binding transitional arrangements with respect to audit there is no relevant audit information of which PwC is unaware tendering and as a consequence, will consider the tendering and each Director has taken the steps that ought to have been arrangements towards the conclusion of the current audit taken as a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information partners period in office or earlier if there is cause to do so.
and to establish that PwC is aware of that information.
The Committee will keep these matters under review to ensure that the Company continues to comply with the prevailing provisions in respect of the External Auditors engagement, rotation of the lead partner and the provision of non-audit services by the External Auditors.
48 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
