Directors Remuneration Report continued Director service contracts and termination policy When determining the leaving arrangements for an Executive Director, the Committee takes into account any pre-established agreements including the provision of any incentives plans, typical market practice, the performance and conduct of the individual and the commercial justification for any payments.
The following summarises our policy in relation to Executive Director service contracts and payments in the event of a loss of office: Notice periods 12 months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
For new appointments the Committee reserves the right to increase the period of notice required from the Company in the first year of employment to up to 24 months, decreasing on a monthly basis to 12 months on the first anniversary of employment.
Contract dates Jeremy Helsby 1 May 1999 Simon Shaw 16 March 2009 Expiry dates Contracts are rolling service contracts with no expiry date.
Elements of Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions relating to base salary, pension, private medical insurance, car remuneration allowance or the provision of a Company car and confirm their eligibility to participate although not necessarily receive any award in the Companys annual performance related profit share arrangements, the Performance Share Plan and other employee share schemes.
Termination payments If an Executive Directors employment is to be terminated, the Committees policy in respect of the contract of and treatment of the employment, in the absence of a breach of the Service Agreement by the Director, is to agree a termination payment annual performance based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits and pension entitlements in their notice period and, provided related profit share they are classified as good leavers as defined in their Service Agreements which expression does not include dismissal due to poor performance a pro-rata annual performance related profit share.
The policy is that, as is considered appropriate at the time, the departing Executive Director may work, or be placed on garden leave, for all or part of his her notice period, or receive a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the Service Agreement.
The Committee will consider mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving Director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances.
No performance related profit share element would be paid in respect of notice periods not worked.
In addition, where the Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of his her statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms financial or otherwise with the Director that the Committee considers to be reasonable in all the circumstances and in the best interests of the Company and to enter into a Settlement Agreement with the Director to effect both the terms agreed under the Service Agreement and any additional statutory or other claims, and to record any agreement in relation to any annual performance related profit share award, in line with the policies described above and or, as below, share awards.
Treatment of Deferred share awards share incentives Deferred share awards made under the annual performance related profit share scheme are subject to forfeiture if the award holder leaves service prior to the vesting date other than in defined good leaver situations.
Good leaver circumstances are death, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement, the employing company being sold or transferred outside of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
For good leavers, any outstanding deferred share award will normally vest on the date of cessation.
Where a good leaver circumstance is at the Committees discretion rather than a prescribed circumstance, vesting may be on such date and such terms as it may determine.
Performance Share Plan In the event that a participant is a good leaver any outstanding unvested Performance Share Plan awards will normally be pro-rated for time in service during the relevant performance period and will vest based on performance to the end of the performance period.
In particular circumstances e. g. death, the Committee has the power to vary these provisions, including to allow for early vesting.
For all other leavers, outstanding unvested awards lapse.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee for example, retirement.
If an award has been granted as an option and a participant ceases to work for the Group after the option has become exercisable, he she will normally be permitted to exercise outstanding options within a period of six months following the end of the performance period or cessation of employment where this is after the end of the performance period as appropriate.
In the event of the death of a participant the personal representatives will be able to exercise an option in accordance with the Performance Share Plan rules.
All-employee share plans Awards vest in accordance with their terms, under which good leavers are entitled to receive shares on or shortly after cessation, but other leavers normally forfeit any awards.
Other awards Where an award is made for the purpose of recruitment for example a buy out award under LR 9.4.
2 then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award having regard to the circumstances of the recruitment, the terms of awards being bought out and the principles for leavers in the current policy.
Other information Executive Directors are subject to post employment restrictive covenants for a period of six months post cessation.
The Company may also meet ancillary costs, such as outplacement consultancy and or reasonable legal costs, if the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract.
58 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
