CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS St Pancras Way, London From left to right: Richard Simpson, Richard Smith, Joe Lister, Mark Allan MARK ALLAN RICHARD SIMPSON PHIL WHITE Chief Executive Officer Managing Director of Property Chairman Committee Richard is Managing Director of Property for Committee Health & Safety Committee Unite.
He sets the strategic direction for all Chair of Nomination Committee aspects of the property portfolio, oversees the Remuneration Committee Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Officer fund management of Unites co-investment in September 2006 following three years as Unite Phil was appointed Chairman in May 2009. vehicles and leads the property development Chief Financial Officer.
Mark held a variety of The majority of his executive career was spent activities.
Richard joined Unite in 2005 and has other roles in the business prior to that, having in the public transport sector, during a period held a variety of senior roles within the Group.
He also serves as a of deregulation and privatisation.
He was Chief He is chair of the British Property Federations Non-Executive Director of Anchor Trust, Executive of National Express Group plc from cross-sector Student Accommodation England's largest not-for-profit provider of 1997 to 2006, leading the business through Committee, and is a qualified chartered services to older people.
Mark has overall considerable growth both in the UK and surveyor and a fellow of the Royal Institute responsibility for the Group's performance overseas.
Phil is currently Non-Executive of Chartered Surveyors.
Prior to this, Richard against its business plan targets, whilst Chairman of Kier Group plc and Lookers plc, served for six years in the British Army.
continuing to develop Unite's growth strategy.
and Non-Executive Director of Stagecoach Group plc and Vp plc.
RICHARD SMITH JOE LISTER Managing Director of Operations MANJIT WOLSTENHOLME Chief Financial Officer Richard was appointed as Managing Director Senior Independent Director Joe joined Unite in 2002.
He was appointed of Operations for Unite in 2011.
His role involves as Chief Financial Officer in January 2008 Committee leading the service provided to our 43,000 having previously held a variety of roles, Chair of Audit Committee customers, and managing the maintenance including Investment Director.
Joe is responsible Remuneration Committee and facilities management across the for the Groups finances and investment strategy, Nomination Committee Groups portfolio.
the company secretarial function, and chairs the Manjit qualified as a chartered accountant Groups Major Investment Approval meetings Richard joined Unite as Deputy Chief Financial with Coopers & Lybrand.
Her background and the Group Risk Committee.
Prior to joining Officer in 2010.
Prior to this he spent 18 years in includes roles as Director and Co-Head of Unite, Joe qualified as a chartered accountant the transport industry, working in the UK, Europe, Investment Banking at Dresdner Kleinwort with .
Richard spent 13 Wasserstein, and Partner at Gleacher Shacklock.
years at National Express Group where he held a She is Chair of Provident Financial and Senior range of senior finance, strategy and operations Independent Director and Chair of the roles, including Group Development Director Remuneration Committee of Future plc as well and Chief Financial Officer, North America.
as Chair of Audit and Non-Executive Director of Aviva Investors.
Manjit was appointed to the Board at the end of 2011.
46 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information St Pancras Way, London From left to right: Elizabeth McMeikan, Professor Sir Tim Wilson, Manjit Wolstenholme, Phil White, Andrew Jones ELIZABETH McMEIKAN PROFESSOR SIR TIM WILSON ANDREW JONES Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Committee Committee Committee Chair of Remuneration Committee Chair of Health & Safety Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Health & Safety Committee Nomination Committee Andrew Jones is Chief Executive Officer of Liz was appointed Non-Executive Director in Sir Tim was appointed Knight Bachelor for LondonMetric Property, following the 2013 February 2014.
She has significant experience services to Higher Education and to business in merger of London & Stamford and Metric.
in customer-focused businesses, Tesco and the 2011 New Years Honours list.
He is a strong Andrew was a co-founder of Metric and Chief Colgate Palmolive, where she was successful advocate of the role of Universities in economic Executive Officer since its inception in March in driving growth through an understanding development and acknowledged as one of 2010.
Andrews previous roles include Executive of customer needs and an innovative the leading thinkers in University business Director and Head of Retail at British Land.
He is the author of the He joined British Land in 2005 following the government commissioned Wilson Review acquisition of Pillar Property where he was on Liz is Senior Independent Director at FTSE 250 of University Industry collaboration, published the main Board, with responsibilities for their pub group JD Wetherspoon and Chair of the in March 2012. retail portfolio and the Hercules Unit Trust.
Remuneration Committee at FlyBe plc.
She is a Non-Executive Director at import export Formerly Vice-Chancellor of the University of Andrew was appointed to the Board in 2013. fruit and vegetable company, Fresca Group Ltd, Hertfordshire, Tim served on the Board of the and CH & Co Ltd, a privately-owned Higher Education Funding Council for England catering company.
HEFCE, was Deputy Chair of the CBI Innovation, Science and Technology Committee and a In November 2012, Liz was appointed Chair of trustee of the Council for Industry and Higher Moat Homes Ltd, a leading housing association Education CIHE.
He has extensive experience working in the South East.
in both UK and international Higher Education.
Tim was appointed to the Board in 2010.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with shareholders and with other providers of capital to the MEETING WITH INVESTORS business, and welcomes their views on the Groups approach to corporate governance.
In addition to the final and interim In April, we hosted a capital markets day in Bristol and presentations, a series of meetings between institutional announced our investment in Home for Success to investors.
shareholders other providers of capital and senior management The day included a tour of our properties showcasing the were held throughout 2014.
The Board is made aware of the views new visual identity and a visit to our development site, of major shareholders concerning the Company through, among Trenchard Street.
Guests had the opportunity to meet with other means, regular analyst and broker briefings, and surveys of senior management and members of the Operations team shareholder opinion.
That process will continue throughout 2015. to learn more about our mobile working technology and customer facing apps.
The Board, together with its professional advisers, actively analyses the Register of the Company with a view to ensuring In December, we also hosted a property investor tour the long-term stability of the Register.
The tour included a presentation by The Company maintains a corporate website containing management, an update on the development pipeline a wide range of information of interest to institutional and and a walk around the new 1,001 bed property.
The Company has frequent discussions with shareholders on a range of issues affecting its performance, both following the Companys announcements and in response to specific requests.
The Company regularly seeks feedback on SHAREHOLDERS BY GEOGRAPHY % the perception of the Company amongst its shareholders, the investor community more broadly and its stakeholders.
48.9 n United Kingdom 31.2 Save for exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board n North America & Canada attend the Companys annual general meetings and 14.4 n Rest of Europe shareholders are invited to ask questions and to meet with 5.5 Directors prior to, and after, the formal proceedings.
At the n Rest of the World meeting, the Chairman reviews the Groups current trading.
The results of the votes at the Annual General Meeting, together with details of the level of proxy votes lodged for each resolution TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS % AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 is made available on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website at www.
8.3 n FMR LLC Notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out on page 138.
5.8 n BlackRock Inc RESULTS OF 2014 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 5.8 n Old Mutual Plc For Against 5.1 n Franklin Resources Inc % % Votes Votes 5.0 n Aberdeen Asset Resolution cast cast Management Group 1 Receive Annual Report 100.0 0.0 n APG Asset Management NV 4.6 and Accounts n Royal London Asset 3.9 2 Directors' remuneration policy 99.8 0.2 Management 3 Annual Report on Remuneration 98.9 1.1 3.2 n Norges Bank Investment 4 Declare a final dividend 100.0 0.0 Management 5 13 Appointment of Directors 93.1 99.8 0.2 6.9 3.2 n Morgan Stanley Investment 14 Appoint the auditor 98.1 1.9 Management 15 Auditor's remuneration 98.3 1.7 3.1 n Principal Financial Group 16 Authority to allot shares 93.5 6.5 17 Pre-emption rights 99.6 0.4 18 Allow general meetings 86.2 13.8 on 14 days' notice 48 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP BOARD STRUCTURE Set out below is an outline of Unites governance structure.
Unite Board Audit Committee Unite Operations Board Remuneration Committee Unite Property Board Nomination Committee Risk Committee Health & Safety Committee Training: review the Boards training needs and also ensure the HOW THE BOARD OPERATES Board is up to date on key legal and regulatory changes for Meetings example, during 2014, there was training on changes in the The Board discusses and approves, annually, a forward agenda UK Corporate Governance Code to take effect for the 2015 of items for the forthcoming year.
This agenda sets out a wide financial year range of matters to be reviewed and to the extent necessary approved at Board meetings, and at meetings of its Committees.
Review of Group policies: review of key Group policies, such Meetings are held in our head office in Bristol, in London where as the Anti-Bribery Policy, to ensure they are appropriate and a large proportion of our properties are located and also the implemented effectively largest concentration of Higher Education institutions in the UK Senior managers are regularly invited to attend meetings and and in cities throughout the UK.
These cities are selected to give present to the Board on the areas they manage, and for which the Board an opportunity to see, first hand, Unites operations, they have domain expertise.
This provides the Board, in particular properties and developments across the UK.
During these city the Non-Executives, with direct and open access to managers visits, the Board meets with senior leaders in the Higher Education throughout the Group and helps inculcate a culture of openness sector, such as Vice-Chancellors of Universities that Unite partners and directness.
In addition, external experts are also invited with, so the Board can hear how our business is performing and to present to the Board such as University Vice-Chancellors how the Higher Education sector is developing directly from some and property valuers to give the Directors a broader and of our key stakeholders.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings held Regular updates from the Board Committees on their activities during the year, and Director attendance, is available in the table and recommendations: ensure that the detailed work on page 51. performed in the Board Committees is considered by the Board as a whole BOARD MEETINGS 2014 Operational, property and financial updates: provide the London 4 Board with the necessary information to track the Groups performance and challenge any problems with performance Bristol 3 Birmingham 1 Market and Higher Education sector updates: ensure the Board is equipped with the most up to date knowledge Newcastle 1 and understanding of the industry and environment we Portsmouth 1 operate in Total 10 Strategy and five year plan: discuss, review and approve our strategy and five year plan, and track how we are performing against our current strategy and five year plan Risk review: review and discuss our key risks at a Group Board level and also review our operational level risks the Boards operational risk review is to verify that risks have been properly identified and that appropriate risk mitigation plans are being correctly managed with clear actions and ownership New development schemes: review and challenge new development schemes being recommended by management and, due to the significant capital expenditure involved and key strategic decisions required, approve these new development schemes The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP CONTINUED COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENTS ROLES The composition of the Board during 2014 is set out below.
The Groups terms of reference for the Chairman and the Chief Executive clearly establish the division of responsibility between The Board consists of the Chairman, four Executive Directors the two roles.
Summaries of those roles, and that of the Senior and four Non-Executive Directors.
Independent Director, are set out below.
Elizabeth McMeikan was appointed to the Board as a NonRole Description Executive Director with effect from 1 February 2014.
Richard Chairman Phil Whites principal responsibilities are: Walker retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting To establish, in conjunction with the Chief of the Company held on 15 May 2014 having served nine years in Executive, the strategic objectives of the office.
Richard Walkers positions as Chair of the Remuneration Group, for approval by the Board Committee and Chair of the Health & Safety Committee were To organise the business of the Board succeeded by Elizabeth McMeikan and Sir Tim Wilson respectively.
To enhance the standing of the In accordance with the requirements of the Code, each of Company by communicating with the current Directors offers himself herself for re-election at shareholders, the financial community the Annual General Meeting to be convened on 14 May 2015. and the Groups stakeholders generally Brief biographies of all the Directors are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Chief Executive Mark Allan has responsibility for: Following the individual performance evaluations of each of Establishing, in conjunction with the the Non-Executive Directors seeking re-election, it is confirmed Chairman, the strategic objectives of that the performance of each of these Non-Executive Directors the Group, for approval by the Board continues to be effective.
They each demonstrate commitment Implementing the Groups business plan to the role, and add value and relevant experience to the Board.
and annual budget The overall operational and financial Board breakdown performance of the Group 1 n Chairman Senior Manjit Wolstenholmes principal 4 n Executive Independent responsibilities are: Director Act as Chair of the Board if the Chairman 4 n Non-Executive is conflicted Act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns if other channels of communication are inappropriate Ensure that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on his performance n Strategy JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH MAY JUNE AUGUST SEPTEMBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER n Commercial Home for Success n Board meeting at Board meeting in Bristol and External Board evaluation n Review of half year results Review of new Investment market review n Customer satisfaction n Investor relations Newcastle University and tour of properties n n and interim dividend n n developments n n survey n n Financial and risk tour of Newcastle properties management n n n Governance n Operational New developments n n Review and approval Customer satisfaction scores Property investment market Strategic plan through Board meeting in Anti-Bribery Policy review n Longer-term strategy review of share placing and n n review n n to 2020 n Portsmouth and tour n open offer n n n n of Portsmouth properties n n Review of preliminary Group strategic Review and approve Strategy review of Sales update n 2014 corporate governance announcement, Annual five-year plan n Cordea Savills Student Hall development, disposals, code changes and Report and Accounts and Fund acquisition n n n n dividends and debt levels n preparation for 2015 n recommend final dividend n Board training n Review of University Exploring strategic growth Review of USAF n n n Unite foundation n 2015 budget n n n partnerships n n opportunities n Review of LSAV joint venture IT strategy review n n University reputation survey n n n Group Board risk review n n n Group risk review n n n Prelims analyst Half year analyst review n review n 50 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Approving major development schemes Responsibility and delegation A schedule of specific matters is reserved for the Board.
Approving appointments to, and dismissals from, the Board These include: Reviewing systems of internal control and risk management Approving the strategic objectives of the Group and the business plan to achieve these objectives Approving policies relating to Directors remuneration Approving major investments, acquisitions, mergers These topics are scheduled as part of the forward agenda for and divestments the forthcoming year or brought to the Board on an ad hoc basis, as and when necessary.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS IN 2014 Date of Appointment Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Current Directors Status to the Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Phil White Chairman 21.01.09 9 N A 4 3 N A Sir Tim Wilson Non-Executive 01.12.10 10 4 4 3 2 Manjit Wolstenholme Independent 01.12.11 10 4 4 3 N A Andrew Jones Non-Executive 01.02.13 10 4 4 3 N A Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive 01.02.14 9 4 4 3 2 Mark Allan Executive 17.11.03 10 N A N A N A 2 Joe Lister Executive 02.01.08 10 N A N A N A N A Richard Simpson Executive 01.01.12 10 N A N A N A N A Richard Smith Executive 01.01.12 10 N A N A N A N A Director who stepped down in the year 03.11.05 Richard Walker Non-Executive resigned 15.05.14 3 1 2 1 0 n Strategy JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH MAY JUNE AUGUST SEPTEMBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER n Commercial Home for Success n Board meeting at Board meeting in Bristol and External Board evaluation n Review of half year results Review of new Investment market review n Customer satisfaction n Investor relations Newcastle University and tour of properties n n and interim dividend n n developments n n survey n n Financial and risk tour of Newcastle properties management n n n Governance n Operational New developments n n Review and approval Customer satisfaction scores Property investment market Strategic plan through Board meeting in Anti-Bribery Policy review n Longer-term strategy review of share placing and n n review n n to 2020 n Portsmouth and tour n open offer n n n n of Portsmouth properties n n Review of preliminary Group strategic Review and approve Strategy review of Sales update n 2014 corporate governance announcement, Annual five-year plan n Cordea Savills Student Hall development, disposals, code changes and Report and Accounts and Fund acquisition n n n n dividends and debt levels n preparation for 2015 n recommend final dividend n Board training n Review of University Exploring strategic growth Review of USAF n n n Unite foundation n 2015 budget n n n partnerships n n opportunities n Review of LSAV joint venture IT strategy review n n University reputation survey n n n Group Board risk review n n n Group risk review n n n Prelims analyst Half year analyst review n review n The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Set out below are sections describing the work of the Committees BOARD COMMITTEES in discharging their respective functions: The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its Committees, as detailed on the following pages.
The terms of Nomination Committee: see the Nomination Committee report reference for each Committee are reviewed annually and the on page 59. current versions are available on the Companys website at Audit Committee: see the Audit Committee Report on page 54. www.
The current membership of each Committee of the Board is set out below and full details of Health & Safety Committee: see the Health & Safety Committee attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the Report on page 60. table on page 51.
Remuneration Committee: see the Remuneration Committee Phil White Report on page 62.
The Remuneration Committee Report is Remuneration incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement Nomination by reference.
Sir Tim Wilson BOARD TENURE Audit Each of the Executive Directors has a rolling contract of Remuneration employment with a 12 month notice period, whilst NonNomination Executive Directors are, subject to re-election by shareholders, Health & Safety appointed to the Board for a term of approximately three years.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, the Manjit Wolstenholme Directors will all retire at the Annual General Meeting and will Audit submit themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Remuneration Nomination The graph below shows the current balance of tenure of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Andrew Jones Audit Remuneration Years Nomination 4 n Sir Tim Wilson Elizabeth McMeikan 6 n Phil White Audit 3 n Manjit Wolstenholme Remuneration Nomination 2 n Andrew Jones Health & Safety 1 n Elizabeth McMeikan Mark Allan Health & Safety PROFESSIONAL ADVICE AND BOARD SUPPORT Denotes Chair.
Directors are given access to independent professional advice at Sir Tim Wilson was Chair of the Nomination Committee until the Companys expense when the Directors deem it necessary in 31 December 2014 with Phil White taking over as Chair of the order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
The Directors also Nomination Committee from 1 January 2015. have regular dialogue with, and direct access to, the advice and services of the Company Secretary who ensures that Board processes and corporate governance practices are followed.
INSURANCE The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance, which is renewed on an annual basis.
52 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS INDUCTION CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS On appointment, each Director takes part in a comprehensive The Board considers each of its four Non-Executive Directors to be and personalised induction programme covering: independent.
Accordingly, the Company meets the requirement of the Code in relation to members of the FTSE 350 that at least The business and operations of the Group and the Higher half of the Board excluding the Chairman is made up of Education sector: the role of the Board and matters reserved independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, Phil White for its decisions: the terms of reference and membership Chairman of the Board was considered independent on his of Board Committees: and powers delegated to those appointment to the role.
Committees The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors constructively The Groups corporate governance practices and procedures challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring and the latest financial information about the Group strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors are expected Their legal and regulatory responsibilities as a Director and, to commit approximately 20 days per annum to the business of specifically, as a Director of a listed company the Group.
As part of the induction programme each Director visits key The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive locations to see our business operations and properties first hand Directors are available for inspection at the Companys and the Higher Education institutions we partner with.
They also registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
meet with key senior executives so that from the outset they have access to managers throughout the organisation to help them PERFORMANCE EVALUATION form their own independent views on the Group and its Each year the Board, its Committees and Directors are performance, and the Higher Education sector we operate in.
In evaluated considering, among other things, the balance of addition, they are given the opportunity to meet with skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board, representatives of the Companys key advisers.
its diversity including gender, how it works together as a unit This induction is supplemented with ongoing training throughout and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
the year to ensure the Board is kept up to date with key legal, During 2014, a formal independent evaluation was undertaken in regulatory and industry updates.
accordance with the Companys policy to conduct an external Elizabeth McMeikan joined the Board on 1 February 2014.
Prior to evaluation every third year the previous external evaluation her appointment, Elizabeth had a full induction as set out in the was 2011, with internal evaluations in 2012 and 2013.
This external Groups 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
evaluation was undertaken by Ffion Hague Independent Board Evaluation, which has no other connection with the Company.
The results of the external evaluation expressed confidence that the Board operates effectively.
However, certain recommendations were made, summarised as follows: Recommendations Action Longer-term strategy As the student accommodation sector matures, the Board The focus of Board meetings has been refreshed to ensure more should devote more time to its longer term strategy.
time is built into each meeting to discuss longer-term strategy considerations.
In addition, 2015 and future Board forward agendas will include a full day dedicated to a longer-term strategy review beyond the five-year plan.
Risk management Risk management processes and reporting were found to be Risk management and risk appetite considered together with effective, but risk management should now be enhanced to the Boards enhanced focus on longer term strategy.
explore the Groups risk appetite as part of its longer-term strategy.
Succession planning With a maturing business, the Board is now well positioned to The Nomination Committee developed a senior management spend more time on succession planning and developing a talent map and oversees the skills development programme as deeper talent pool.
part of its Board succession planning.
Nomination Committee Best practice indicates that the Board Chair should also chair the The Board Chairman took over the Chair of the Nominations Nomination Committee.
TRAINING The Board reviewed its training needs during 2014 and considered it important that the Directors have a broader perspective of the digital platforms and social media used by our digital native customers.
In addition, the Board considered it important that the Committee Chairs continue to receive relevant functional training in areas such as accounting, UK Corporate Governance Code and executive remuneration reporting developments and accordingly the Committee Chairs attend relevant external seminars.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
