Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE OVERVIEW PHIL WHITE Composition The Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The members of the Committee are set out on page 52 of the CHAIRS OVERVIEW Corporate Governance Statement.
At the invitation of the Committee, any other Director or other person may be invited The Nomination Committee helps ensure to attend meetings of the Committee if considered desirable the Board has the correct balance of skills, in assisting the Committee in fulfilling its role.
Role The role of the Committee is to: As well as driving new appointments, it also drives Board succession planning.
In discharging this Ensure that appropriate procedures are adopted and followed in the nomination, selection, training, evaluation responsibility, it is critical that the Nomination and re-election of Directors and for succession planning, Committee anticipates the Groups challenges with due regard in all cases to the benefits of diversity on and opportunities so we can help future proof the the Board, including gender Board with the appropriate diversity of skills and Regularly review the structure, size, composition, skills and experience for the changing environment we experience of the Board and to make recommendations operate in.
with regard to any adjustments considered necessary During the year, the Nomination Committees When it is agreed that an appointment to the Board should focus has been on senior management skills be made, lead a selection process that is formal, rigorous and transparent development and our talent pipeline for future Board appointments.
This helps ensure we have Be responsible for identifying, reviewing and recommending appropriate succession planning in place.
candidates for appointment to the Board The only change to the Board during 2014 was the ACTIVITIES IN 2014 Succession planning appointment of Elizabeth McMeikan, who joined The major activity of the Committee in 2014 was succession us on 1 February 2014 as part of our timely planning and to ensure we have a strong senior management succession planning for Richard Walker, and base and clear talent pipeline for future Board appointments.
during the year we have monitored her induction.
Review of Board composition Our 2014 independent evaluation noted that best In addition, we reviewed the Boards composition to ensure it practice was for the Chair of the Board to also has the correct balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
Our external evaluation also considered this.
Accordingly, We concluded that the current composition is correct having I took over the Chair of this Committee from regard to our current business and longer-term plans, but Sir Tim Wilson effective 1 January 2015. recognising this should always be under review as we consider succession planning and broader market developments.
BOARD DIVERSITY During 2014, we reviewed our Board diversity policy.
We recognise that diversity at Board level and across the Group, including gender, is critical to our continued success, particularly for a business that provides homes for over 43,000 students from many different backgrounds and countries.
We are proud of the diversity of the Group as a whole, an organisation made up of employees who, like our customers, are from many different backgrounds and countries and have diverse personalities, perspectives and skills.
This is fundamental to understanding the needs of students living with us and providing the best customer service.
The Nomination Committee considered during 2014 whether it wanted to set specific targets for female representation on the Board or other diversity targets.
The Committee continues to welcome the developments in the Code to consider diversity at Board level, but the Committee does not feel the setting of targets is necessarily in the best interests of the Group and its stakeholders.
Rather, the Committee will consider gender diversity, along with all other aspects of diversity, with its more general remit to consider the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge when reviewing appointments to the Board.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
