Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information the basis for preparing the accounts on a going concern basis as ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE outlined below.
The Committee also reviewed and challenged The Audit Committee has delegated authority from the Board set the external auditors report on these financial statements.
out in its written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee take into account the requirements of the Code The Committee considered and approved the audit approach and are available for inspection at the registered office and at and scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external the Annual General Meeting, and can also be found on the auditor and the fees for the same.
The Committee also considered Group website at www.
co. uk about-unite the independence of the auditor and the recommendations in corporate-governance.
the Code regarding the tender of the external audit contract.
The key objectives of the Audit Committee are: The Committee discussed reports from PwC as the Groups internal auditor on their audits and assessment of the control To provide effective governance and control over the integrity environment.
The Committee reviewed and proposed areas of the Groups financial reporting and review significant of focus for the internal audit programme of review.
financial reporting judgements To review the effectiveness of the Groups system of FINANCIAL REPORTING internal controls, including financial controls and risk The primary focus of the Committee, in relation to financial management systems reporting in respect of the year ending 31 December 2014, was to review with both management and the external auditor the To monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit appropriateness of the half year and annual financial statements function and review its material findings concentrating on: To oversee the relationship with the external auditor, including The quality and acceptability of accounting policies making recommendations to the Board in relation to the and practices appointment of the external auditor and monitoring the external auditors objectivity and independence The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE reporting requirements The members of the Committee are set out on page 52 of this Material areas in which significant judgements have been Corporate Governance Statement.
The Committee members applied or where there has been discussion with the are all independent Non-Executives and have been selected external auditor with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, The Board considers that as a chartered accountant I have is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the recent and relevant financial experience.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer and the Group The Committees assessment of the Annual Report to ensure that Financial Controller.
it is fair, balanced and understandable took into account the following considerations: I also invite our external auditor, KPMG LLP, to each meeting.
The Committee regularly meets separately with KPMG LLP without A review of what fair, balanced and understandable means others being present.
As appropriate, I also invite our internal for Unite auditor, PwC, to attend the meetings.
We have asked KPMG LLP and PwC to meet independently of management to ensure The high level of input from the Chief Executive Officer and alignment, to update on respective findings and consider the Chief Financial Officer with early opportunities for the Board impact on the relative approaches of their work.
to review and comment on the Annual Report Ensuring consistency in the reporting of the Groups COMMITTEE MEETINGS performance and management information as described The Committee met four times during the year and attendance on pages 24 25, risk reviews as described on pages 27 29, at those meetings is shown on page 51 of this Corporate business model and strategy as described on page 11 Governance Statement.
A cross-check between Board minutes and the Annual Report MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR is undertaken to ensure that reporting is balanced Meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to a Group Board meeting and I report to the Board as part of a Whether information is presented in a clear and concise separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs to facilitate matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of shareholders access to relevant information their work.
At its four meetings during the year, the Committee To aid our review, the Committee considers reports from the focused on the activities described below.
Group Financial Controller and also reports from the external The Committee reviewed the half year and annual financial auditor on the outcomes of their half year review and annual statements and the significant financial reporting judgements.
As a Committee, we support KPMG LLP in displaying the As part of this review, the Committee reviewed the liquidity risk and necessary professional scepticism their role requires.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED of these losses more likely.
Management regularly prepare SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE forecasts of the Group results which are reviewed at Board level.
After discussion with both management and the external auditor, Management have used these forecasts to model the Groups the Committee determined that the key risk of misstatement of future taxable profits and the extent to which tax losses can be the Groups 2014 financial statements related to: utilised against them.
Management also considered the impact Property valuations on the Groups tax profile of potential conversion to a REIT in the medium term and whether complexities in the Group structure Deferred tax assets might make some of the tax losses inaccessible at some point in Joint venture accounting the future.
Management therefore decided to restrict deferred tax assets in respect of the next two years forecast taxable profits Property valuations in certain Group companies that have the capacity to use The Groups principal assets are investment properties and their losses.
investment properties under development that are either owned on balance sheet or in USAF or LSAV.
The investment properties During the year, the Committee has regularly discussed the are carried at fair value based on an appraisal by the Groups recognition of a deferred tax asset within management and the external valuers who carry out the valuations in accordance Groups external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied with with the RICS Red Book valuation guide, taking into account managements approach and subsequent recognition of transactional evidence during the year.
The valuation of property a deferred tax asset within the financial statements.
assets involves significant judgement and changes in the core The auditor explained their audit procedures to test the assets assumptions could have a significant impact on the carrying recognised and the Groups disclosures on the subject.
On the value of these assets.
Management discuss the underlying basis of the audit work, the auditor reported no inconsistencies performance of each asset with the external valuers and provide or misstatements that were material in the context of the detailed performance data to them including rents, University financial statements as a whole.
lease agreements, occupancy, property costs and costs to complete for development properties.
Management receive Further analysis and detail on deferred tax is set out on page 37. detailed reports from the valuers and perform a detailed review Joint venture accounting of the valuations to ensure that management consider the Two of Unites significant assets are its investments in USAF and LSAV valuations to be appropriate.
The valuation report is reviewed which the Group has historically accounted for as joint ventures.
by the Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director of Property prior to sign-off.
During the year, the group has adopted IFRS 10 12 which introduced new guidance on how an investor should account During the year, the Committee and or the Board met with all for its interests in other entities, including a new definition of three of the Groups valuers and challenged them on the basis control and new guidance on how to classify and account for of their valuations and their core assumptions, including the jointly controlled arrangements.
Management has therefore yield for each property, rental growth and forecast costs.
undertaken a revised assessment of whether the Group has The Committee questioned the external valuers on market control or joint control of these entities in accordance with trends and transactional evidence that supports the valuations.
Due to the complexity of the The Committee was satisfied that the Groups valuers were contractual arrangements, and Unites role as manager of the appropriately qualified and provided an independent entities, the assessment of whether Unite has control or joint assessment of the Groups assets.
The Committee was satisfied control of these entities involves judgements around a number that an appropriate valuation process had taken place, of significant factors.
the core assumptions used were reasonable and hence the carrying value of investment and development properties in Management have prepared a detailed analysis that considers the financial statements was appropriate.
the key aspects of: the power Unite has over the USAF and LSAV funds by examining the rights that give it the ability to direct The auditor explained their audit procedures to test the valuation relevant activities: the exposure to variable returns from Unites of investment and development properties and the Groups involvement in the investee: and Unites ability to use its power disclosures on the subject.
On the basis of their audit work, the to affect its returns.
auditor reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
The Group, as fund manager, has the ability to direct a number of USAFs activities: however, only some of these were deemed Further analysis and detail on asset valuations is set out on to be key activities that significantly impact on USAFs return.
Managements analysis identified acquisitions, disposals, capital Deferred tax assets expenditure for refurbishments and funding, whether through The Group has significant tax losses brought forward from prior debt or equity, as the key activities that impact upon the years.
Recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses performance of the fund.
For each activity, management is only made when it is probable that these losses will be utilised analysed Unites contractual rights against those of the Advisory in the future and is therefore dependent on the ability to set them Committee.
The Advisory Committee represents the interests of against deferred tax liabilities and the forecast taxable profits all the unitholders and consists of one representative from Unite which involve significant judgements and assumptions regarding and at least four different unitholders.
For some of the activities, future performance.
Recent changes in Group strategy to reduce it was not clear who had definitive control.
However, with gearing levels and improve profitability have made the future use respect to the activities which were considered to have 56 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information significant impact on the ability to influence the returns of the The Committees work to review the effectiveness of the internal fund, acquisitions and equity financing, it was determined controls was driven by the Group Financial Controllers reports that the Advisory Committee and the Group had joint power on the effectiveness of internal controls.
The feedback from the to direct the activities, and therefore it was appropriate to Groups internal auditor on specific areas of control that are account for USAF as a joint venture under IFRS 11. tested on a periodic basis and a request to our external auditor to provide specific feedback and assessment of the Groups As a result, Unite records its 22% share of the results and net assets financial controls and any areas of weakness.
No significant of USAF as a joint venture using equity accounting.
weaknesses were identified through the course of the Committees reviews.
The Audit Committee has challenged management and the external auditors on the basis of the above analysis, including INTERNAL AUDIT identifying the key activities, the process for which the legal The Group engages PwC to perform internal audit activity.
agreements have been reviewed to identify the contractual The Committee discussed and provided guidance for the rights of both Unite and the Advisory Committee, and the programme of activity that was undertaken by the internal overall conclusions.
auditors in 2014 and looking forward on a rolling three year basis.
The analysis of whether LSAV is jointly controlled is more This review included the scope of internal audits activity and straightforward due to the fact that Unite and GIC each owns resourcing together with areas of focus and planning for the next 50% of the joint venture and both have 50% of the voting rights three years.
The Committee also discussed and challenged the over key decisions.
Therefore, there is much clearer evidence output from the internal audit reviews undertaken in the year and that control over the key activities is shared by the two parties.
concluded that the reviews provided good support for statements made by management and that the control Further analysis and detail on joint ventures is set out on page 39. environment is solid in the areas tested over the last three years.
RISK MANAGEMENT The relationship with PwC is managed by an Internal Audit The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which Manager and the Group Financial Controller.
Reports from significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Chief Financial Officer include updates on audit activities the Committee.
and progress of the Group audit plan.
During the year, PwC focused their internal audit work on procurement, anti-bribery Our work here was driven primarily by performing an assessment and corruption compliance, cash flow forecasting, cost of the approach taken by the Groups Risk Committee, chaired management and capital expenditure.
The internal audit report by Joe Lister, Chief Financial Officer.
The Risk Committee is highlighted the positive engagement from the finance team in responsible for the delivery of the Groups Risk Management the preparation of risk and control matrices, improvements in the Framework, which the Committee has approved, and the general control environment over the last three years, and Groups assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties, as set concluded that the financial controls tested appeared to be out on pages 27 29.
We instructed PwC as internal auditor to designed and operating effectively.
undertake a review of the effectiveness of the Groups approach to risk and this was reviewed and challenged at the Audit EXTERNAL AUDIT Committee.
This report provided the Committee with comfort The effectiveness of the external audit process is facilitated by that the Group is effectively assessing, reviewing and putting appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
plans in place to ensure the effective management of the We receive from KPMG LLP a detailed audit plan, identifying their Groups key risks.
The Board also formally reviewed the Groups assessment of these key risks.
principal risks at two meetings during the year.
Through these reviews, the Committee considered the risk management For the 2014 financial year the significant risks identified were in procedures within the business and was satisfied that the key relation to the valuation of properties, deferred tax assets and the Group risks were being appropriately managed.
classification of joint ventures due to the inherent management judgment required in these areas.
These focus areas were The risk assessment flags the importance of the internal control discussed at the Committee and it was agreed that they should framework to manage risk and this forms a separate area of be the principal areas of focus as they represent the areas with review for the Committee.
the greatest level of judgement and materially impact the overall performance of the Group.
These risks are tracked through the INTERNAL CONTROL year and we challenged the work done by the auditor to test Led by the Groups risk assessment process, we reviewed the managements assumptions and estimates around these areas.
process by which the Group evaluated its control environment.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining We assess the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing adequate internal controls over financial reporting, including these matters through the reporting we receive from KPMG LLP over the Groups consolidation process.
Internal controls are at both the half year and year end and also reports from designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the management on how these risks are being addressed.
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of In addition, we performed a review of auditor effectiveness.
the financial statements for external reporting purposes.
We perform this through the use of a questionnaire and A comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and discussion with management.
We use this approach to gain forecasting process is in place.
Monthly financial information comfort that the external auditor is duly qualified, independent and performance insight is reported to the Board.
and carries out their audit strategy appropriately.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED For the 2014 financial year, the Committee was satisfied that For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the the specified fee limits, I as Chairman, or in my absence another primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit member, can pre-approve permitted services.
We hold private meetings with the external Fees paid to the Groups Auditor auditor at each Committee meeting to provide additional 2014 2013 2012 opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the m m m Committee and the auditor without management being Audit of the Companys present.
Matters typically discussed include: financial statements 0.2 0.2 0.2 The auditors assessment of business and financial statement Audit of financial statements risks and management activity thereof of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 0.1 Audit related The transparency and openness of interactions with assurance services 0.3 management, confirmation that there has been no restriction Tax compliance services 0.1 0.2 0.2 in scope placed on them by management and the Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1 0.2 independence of their audit Corporate finance services 0.1 How they have exercised professional scepticism Total fees 0.8 0.6 0.8 Audit services 0.3 0.3 0.3 I also meet with the external lead audit partner outside the formal Audit related Committee process throughout the year.
assurance services 0.3 INDEPENDENCE AND EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER Non-audit related 0.2 0.3 0.5 The Committee considers the re-appointment of the external auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner, each year During the year, KPMG LLP charged the Group 0.3 million for and also assesses their independence on an ongoing basis.
The Committee approved the fees for audit maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the Group supports services for 2014 after a review of the level and nature of work audit partner rotation and the external auditor is required to to be performed, including the impact of acquisitions, and after rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five being satisfied by KPMG LLP that the fees were appropriate for years.
The current lead audit partner, has been in place for three the scope of the work required.
These fees are also benchmarked years.
KPMG LLP has been the Groups external auditor since its against other listed real estate companies of comparable size stock market listing in 2000 15 years.
Under the revised Code, the transitional provisions for audit In addition to the statutory audit fee and fees for the audit of tendering suggest that we conduct an audit tender at the end subsidiaries, KPMG LLP charged the Group a further 0.1 million of the current audit partners five-year term, which ends in 2016, for taxation compliance, 0.1 million for tax advisory services and and provide an explanation for our decision not to tender the 0.2 million for the accountants report in relation to the placing audit prior to that date.
The new EU regulations set out the and open offer of new shares Capital Markets reporting.
As a requirements for mandatory audit firm rotation.
Since the Group result of the one-off work performed on the accountants report, listed in 2000, and KPMG LLP has been auditor since that date, the non-audit services amount to over 100% of the audit services.
transitional rules will require the Group to change its auditor by Without these transactional fees, other non-audit fees represent 16 June 2023.
In the light of recent regulation changes, the Audit 68% of the fees for audit services.
The Audit Committee considers Committee intends to tender the audit in 2015. the overall levels acceptable given the transactional nature of the placing and open offer and as a significant portion of the In addition, as part of the Audit Committees assessment of the other non-audit services relate to the provision of tax compliance independence of the auditor, the Committee receives details services principally assistance with corporation tax returns.
The of any relationships between the Group and KPMG LLP that Committee considers that all of the non-audit services are most may have a bearing on their independence and receives suitably performed by KPMG LLP and could not be provided as confirmation that they are independent of the Group.
cost effectively by another professional auditing firm.
No valuation or accounting services are provided by KPMG LLP.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES With regard to the Capital Markets reporting work in relation to To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of the the placing and open offer, it is common practice for the auditor external auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee to perform this work and, due to the nature of the work, it clearly has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external makes sense for the auditor to do so.
auditor to provide non-audit services.
No material changes have been made to this policy during the year.
This precludes KPMG The Audit Committee recognises that the level of fees for nonLLP from providing certain services such as valuation work or the audit services during 2014 exceeded that of audit fees.
This is as provision of accounting services.
a result of the Capital Markets reporting work referred to above and therefore non-audit fees are expected to reduce in 2015.
For certain specific permitted services reporting accountant activities, tax advisory and compliance work and debt advisory COMMITTEE EVALUATION services, the Committee has pre-approved that KPMG LLP can The Committees activities formed part of the evaluation of Board be engaged by management, subject to the policies set out effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this process can be above, and subject to specified fee limits for individual found under Performance evaluation.
engagements and fee limits for each type of specific service.
58 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
