CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY INTERNAL CONTROL MANJIT WOLSTENHOLME The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
However, such a system is designed to achieve AUDIT COMMITTEE business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not CHAIRS OVERVIEW absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The provisions of the Code in respect of internal controls The Audit Committee plays an important role require that Directors review all controls including operational, sitting between management and shareholders.
compliance and risk management, as well as financial controls.
The Committee has specific duties as set out in Through reports from the Boards Committees, the Groups Risk its terms of reference, in line with the Code, to Committee and the Groups business unit boards Operations board and Property board, the Board has reviewed the reassure shareholders that their interests are effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the properly protected in respect of the Groups period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and has financial management and reporting.
concluded that such controls were effective throughout the period.
The Audit Committee works to a structured programme of activities, with agenda items Further information on the Companys internal control framework is set out in the Audit Committee Report.
The Board delegates focused to coincide with key events in the annual certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to the Audit financial reporting cycle.
The Committee reports Committee, so that these can receive suitably focused attention, regularly to the Board on its work.
but in so doing the Audit Committee acts on behalf of the full Board, and the matters reviewed and managed by the Audit During 2014, the Audit Committee has continued Committee remain the responsibility of the Directors taken as to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial a whole.
statement, assisted the Board in reviewing the GOING CONCERN effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable management systems, reviewed the internal audit expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate activity and findings, and reviewed arrangements resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable for the Groups employees to raise concerns future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern in confidence.
basis in preparing the accounts.
The Audit Committee has again reviewed the RISK MANAGEMENT The Board, when setting the strategy, also determines the performance of the Groups external auditor nature and extent of the significant risks and its risk appetite and believes the relationship continues to be in implementing this strategy.
Each year, the Board reviews the effective.
We remain satisfied with the auditors effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems, how independence and effectiveness and have the Board achieved this during 2014 is set out on page 26. recommended to the Board that they BUSINESS MODEL be re-appointed.
For a description of the Groups business model see page 11 of the Strategic Report.
As noted in this Corporate Governance Statement, the Board delegates certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to the Audit Committee, so that these can receive suitably focused attention.
However, the Audit Committee acts on behalf of the full Board, and the matters reviewed and managed by the Committee remain the responsibility of the Directors as a whole.
54 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
