Corporate governance statement Best practice is rooted in our culture.
Our governance framework ensures that policies and procedures set at board level are effectively communicated across the whole business.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination committee committee committee Roles and responsibilities Roles and responsibilities Roles and responsibilities kk Monitors the financial kk Reviews and kk Reviews the structure, and internal reporting recommends to the size and composition processes including board the overall executive of the board the integrity and clarity remuneration policy kk Leads the recruitment process of the financial statements kk Recommends appropriate for new appointments to the kk Monitors internal audit fees for the Chairman board and its committees kk Conducts an annual kk Reviews the terms of kk Monitors succession review of external auditor service and remuneration and development planning for independence and quality of the executive directors the board of directors and the and other members of the Executive Board qMore on Pages 76 to 78 Executive Board More on Pages 74 and 75 q qMore on Pages 84 and 85 Our board, supported by its committees, is responsible for embedding: Executive Board Vision and Values Policies and Procedures Which are implemented by kk Determination For example: kk Caring kk Health & Safety policy Roles and responsibilities kk Empowerment kk Risk Management Guidelines kk Day-to-day running kk Teamwork kk Ethics policy of the groups business kk Corporate Responsibility policy qMore on Pages 67 64 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board discussion with  In May 2014, the board met with the UK Manage for Value business management at our newly converted CL Workwear plant in Wakefield to review and discuss the business lines strategies.
The meetings gave board members detailed insights into the operations of the businesses, and their challenges and opportunities and they were viewed as a great success by all involved.
It was an excellent experience meeting the Berendsen directors.
The directors were incredibly engaged during the tour and asked numerous questions.
Everyone at the plant thoroughly enjoyed the experience.
Sarah Reid General Manager Wakefield The principles of good governance are Matters which are outside the scope of Leadership rooted in the Berendsen culture and we the reserved matters are decided by the Our board has established the believe this is evident in our Vision and Executive Board.
governance framework illustrated in Values, a set of values that inform how the chart on page 64 to support the we act on a day-to-day basis.
Board composition and independence development of good governance practices throughout the group.
Composition Role of the board However, structure alone does not lead During 2014, the board comprised of the The key responsibilities of our board, to the establishment of best practice Chairman, two executive directors the and examples of matters reserved and good governance.
Our board has Chief Executive Officer and the Chief for the boards decision under the therefore delegated responsibility to Financial Officer and four independent formal schedule of reserved matters, the Executive Board for ensuring that non-executive directors: Maarit Aarniare as follows: the policies and behaviours set at board Sirvi who joined the board on 1 March level are effectively communicated 2014, Lucy Dimes, David Lowden and Key responsibilities and implemented across the groups Andrew Wood.
This is achieved through the kk Set strategy and deliver value to Further biographical information on each use of presentations and meetings shareholders and stakeholders: of our directors can be found on pages with management teams and effective kk Monitor management activity and 63 and 67, which shows the breadth policies and procedural guidelines.
performance against targets: of strategic and financial management Our group intranet Berendsen Universe insight brought to our board table.
is also used as a platform for employees kk Provide constructive challenge All of our directors have significant to be kept fully informed of the latest to ensure management remains international backgrounds, knowledge group news as well as developments and focused on strategic aims: and of the markets in which we operate, updates around key policies.
kk Set parameters for promoting and have held senior executive Regular updates are provided to the and deepening the interest positions within listed companies.
board and its committees by the Chief of shareholders.
The non-executive directors bring Executive Officer and Chief Financial industry experience from a wide range Matters reserved Officer.
The board also meets with of backgrounds including finance, the Executive Board at least twice per kk Group strategy, business FMCG, logistics, telecommunications, year to establish how the business is objectives, long-range plans and manufacturing operations and progressing and, through discussion and annual budgets: business services.
debate at those meetings, ensures that kk Annual and interim results: The composition of the board is the good governance practices are fully reviewed annually by the nomination embedded within the group.
kk Material acquisitions, disposals committee to ensure that there is an and contracts: Our monthly corporate newsletter is effective balance of skills, experience available to all employees and focuses kk Major changes to internal controls, and knowledge.
on core themes such as governance, risk management or financial leadership and growth.
The newsletter, reporting policies and procedures: which is also provided to the board as a kk Determining risk appetite: welcome addition to its monthly update pack, provides case study information on kk Changes to capital, corporate different areas of the business including or management structure: and key projects, achievements and personal kk Succession planning for the board success stories.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 65 Corporate governance statement continued Key responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Iain Ferguson Peter Ventress directors kk Responsible for the leadership of the board, kk Responsible for leading and managing the kk Promote the highest standards of integrity, ensuring its effectiveness by creating and business within the authorities delegated by probity and corporate governance managing a constructive relationship between the board: throughout the company and particularly the executive and non-executive directors: atboard level: kk Develops the groups objectives and strategy kk Promotes a culture of challenge, debate, and, following board approval, the successful kk Constructively challenge and help develop openness and support, ensuring that there is execution of strategy: proposals on our strategy: adequate time available for discussion: kk Ensures that a sound system of internal kk Scrutinise the performance of management kk Ensures there is ongoing and effective controls is in place: in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and communication between the board and its monitor the reporting of the performance: kk Manages the groups risk profile, including the key stakeholders: maintenance of appropriate health, safety and kk Review the integrity of financial information, kk Responsible for ensuring the board receives environmental policies: and that financial controls and systems of risk accurate and clear information in a timely management are robust and defensible: kk Responsible for the effective and ongoing manner in advance of board meetings: and communication with shareholders: and kk Determine appropriate levels of remuneration kk Responsible for ensuring that all nonfor executive directors and have a prime role kk Ensures that the board is fully informed of all executive directors receive ongoing in appointing and, where necessary, removing key matters.
training and development so that they can executive directors, and in succession Read biography on Page 63 q appropriately perform their duties.
planning: and q Read biography on Page 63 kk Ensure no individual or group dominate boards decision-making Read biographies on Page 63 q Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Executive David Lowden David Lawler Board kk Experienced and trusted sounding board kk Secretary to board and audit, nomination kk Developing the groups strategy and budget for Chairman and CEO: and remuneration committees: for board approval: kk Acts as conduit between Chairman, kk Ensures board procedures are complied with: kk Monitoring the financial, operational and non-executives and shareholders: service performance of the group and kk Advises on regulatory compliance and reviewing the group risk register: kk Assists CEO with annual evaluation corporate governance: of Chairman: kk Allocating resources across the group within kk Facilitates induction programmes: parameters agreed by the board: kk Strengthens understanding of major kk Develops board and committee agendas, and shareholders key interests by receiving kk Planning and initiating major crosscollates and distributes papers: and reports from the companys brokers business programmes: kk Available to all directors.
on investor relations: and kk Developing leadership and future talent Read biography on Page 63 q kk Available to meet shareholders.
programmes and securing strong succession planning for the group: and Read biography on Page 63 q kk Collectively responsible for the day-to-day running of the business.
q Read biographies on Page 67 Division of responsibilities Independence Where necessary, directors are required to absent themselves from a meeting of The roles of the Chairman and the Chief The board also reviews non-executive the board while such matters are being Executive Officer are separately held directors independence on an annual discussed, although no such situations and the division of their responsibilities basis taking into account such factors arose in 2014. is clearly established, set out in writing as their contribution to unbiased and regularly reviewed by the board.
and independent debate during The independence of the non-executive Summaries of the key responsibilities meetings.
The board considers that in directors is fundamental to the boards of the Chairman, Chief Executive, 2014 allfournon-executive directors decision-making and discussion.
other members of the board, and the remained independent from executive Any director who has concerns about Executive Board are set out above.
management and free from any the running of the group or a proposed business or other relationship that could course of action is encouraged to The Chairman is regularly on site at materially interfere with the exercise of express those concerns which are then our head office in London, and this their judgement.
No such concerns were raised facilitates frequent interaction, discussion during 2014. and collaboration with the Chief To safeguard their independence, a Executive Officer.
director is not entitled to vote on any Conflicts of interest matter in which they have a material Where required, the Chairman also personal interest unless the board The board has put procedures in place ensures that discussions with other unanimously decides otherwise see to resolve situations where a director has board members, including non-executive Conflicts of Interest.
As part of these directors, are held outside of the formal procedures, the board: board meeting programme.
66 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Executive Board The Executive Board formally met 4 Christian Ellegaard 6 Peter Havus 11 times during 2014.
Some of these Managing Director, Facility Managing Director, Workwear Christian joined the group in 1993 and was Peter joined the group in 1985 and was meetings were held by video conference appointed Managing Director of the Nordic appointed Managing Director for the Continent to ensure full participation by Executive Region in 2007, having held a number of senior region in 2007.
He has held a number of senior Board members.
posts, including Managing Director in Denmark.
posts, including Managing Director Sweden, Christian holds a BSc in Economics and Business Managing Director Denmark and Chief Operating The members of the Executive Board Administration from the Copenhagen Business Officer, mainland Europe, having started his also communicate regularly outside the School and an MBA from Monterey Institute of career in the textile rental industry in Sweden formal meetings.
Peter holds a degree in Economics.
On 1 January 2012, he was appointed Managing In addition to the Executive Boards Director, Workwear.
5 Steve Finch collective responsibilities, members of Managing Director, UK Flat Linen 7 Chris Thrush the Executive Board have been assigned Steve joined the group in 1996 through the Group Director, Human Resources areas of specific responsibility including: acquisition of Spring Grove Services where Chris was appointed Group Director, Human he held the position of Commercial Director Resources in May 2011.
He has previously held operations including health and safety and was appointed Managing Director of the HR Director roles with Corporate Express N. V. Peter Havus, procurement and Sunlight Service Group in 2001.
Prior to joining DePuy a Johnson and Johnson company, supply chain Steve Finch and sales Spring Grove in 1995, Steve spent 25 years in the Gestetner and the University of Lancaster in the and marketing Christian Ellegaard.
telecommunications industry, latterly as Sales UK.
He has lived and worked extensively outside Director in Hutchison Telecom now Orange.
the UK in Europe, the USA and Asia.
He holds an 1 Peter Ventress Steve holds an MBA from Bath University.
MBA and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Chief Executive Officer On 1 January 2012, he was appointed Managing Personnel and Development.
q Read biography on Page 63 Director, UK Flat Linen.
2 Kevin Quinn Chief Financial Officer q Read biography on Page 63 3 David Lawler Company Secretary Read biography on Page 63 q 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 kk Considers each conflict situation Appointments to the board In accordance with the Code, all separately based on its particular directors wishing to continue will retire The nomination committee assisted facts and in conjunction with all other and offer themselves for re-election where appropriate by external search directors duties and obligations under by shareholders at the 2015 Annual consultants ensures that there is the Companies Act 2006: General Meeting.
a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of kk Keeps records and board minutes of Independent advice new directors, with the first step being authorisations granted by directors a detailed evaluation of the current We have established an agreed and the scope of any approvals given: composition of the board taking procedure by which directors can, and into account the balance of skills, for the purposes of discharging their kk Regularly reviews conflict of experience, knowledge and diversity duties, obtain independent professional interest authorisations.
advice at the companys expense.
No director had reason to use this facility The board has complied with these The committee then prepares a during 2014. procedures during the year and each candidate specification for approval by director has confirmed there have the board.
Apart from the appointment been no conflicts of interest arising of Maarit Aarni-Sirvi, the process during 2014. for which was described in our 2013 Corporate governance statement, there has been no board recruitment activity in 2014.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 67 Corporate governance statement continued What the board did in 2014 15% Governance and Risk kk Reviewed reports on governance issues, including changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and developments in EU audit legislation kk Regularly reviewed significant risks 15% 20% kk Reviewed all group governance documents Shareholder engagement Strategy kk Received internal audit reports kk Reviewed reports from brokers kk Met the Executive Board in May and monitored implementation onshareholder feedback from and September to discuss progress of recommendations meetings with the Chief Executive on strategy implementation kk Received a presentation on the Officer and Chief Financial Officer kk Formal strategy review independent review of the internal kk Hosted a non-executives dinner in September audit function withinstitutional investors kk Received presentations kk Discussed the progress of our 2014 kk Reviewed the 2014 AGM proxy from business lines on future external board evaluation voting figures strategic opportunities kk Had one-on-one interviews with kk Received an update from stock kk Held separate meetings DrTracy Long as part of our board brokers and PR advisers on the with the Chief Executive Officer performance evaluation market perception of Berendsen to discuss key strategic issues More on Pages 22, 72 and 80 q and succession planning More on Page 73 q qMore on Pages 8 to 21 25% Performance monitoring kk Reviewed monthly reports on Board activity performance against budget in 2014 and forecast kk Reviewed reports on the financial position of the group including treasury management 20% kk Reviewed regular reports from People, Vision and Values chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees kk Meetings with the Executive Board in May and September kk Approved the year-end and half kk Meeting the UK Manage for Value year results management teams on 23 May 2014 qMore on Pages 14 to 19 kk Meeting the business line management teams at the formal strategy review kk NED individual visits to businesses in Malmo Sweden, Copenhagen 5% Denmark, Rainhill UK and Siegen Germany Other kk Attendance at annual Berendsen kk Approved 2013 Annual Report Management Trainee Conference and Accounts dinner in London kk Received and reviewed monthly qMore on Page 69 shareholders analysis kk Approved 2014 Notice of AGM Board performance evaluation In accordance with our three-year cycle, our 2014 board evaluation was externally facilitated and led by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
The evaluation included a series of one-on-one interviews with all directors and observations at one board and two committee meetings.
Dr Tracy Long has discussed her initial findings with our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and will present the final results to the board in April 2015.
During 2015, the board will focus on the key recommendations and will report to shareholders on the outcome of the evaluation and their progress in our 2015 Annual Report.
More on Page 71 q 68 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-executive director site visits The boards achievements Effectiveness and events in 2014 During 2014, the board met eight In order that our non-executive directors times.
These meetings were often Strategy review can meet local management teams preceded by a board dinner during and strengthen their knowledge and In September 2014, the strategy refresh which presentations were given by understanding of our local operations, process began.
The board received advisers or other invited speakers on issues and the culture of our group, they comprehensive presentations from each topics of particular relevance to the are required, at least once a year, to of the business lines on their current board including an update by stock visit one of our sites or to attend one of and projected performance, areas for brokers and PR advisers on the market our group events.
The sites and events development and concentration and perception of Berendsen, an overview of attended by our non-executive directors upcoming opportunities and potential the 2014 board evaluation process and in 2014 are set out below: threats.
In addition, presentations on the economic outlook.
Non-executive Site visited Event initiatives that could be integrated across The dinners also provide a useful forum all business lines were discussed and Iain Ferguson kk Management for additional debate between directors Trainee Dinner reviewed.
The strategy presentations on complex matters to be discussed at kk Brixton UK provided an important first step towards the scheduled meetings.
This helps the kk Helsingborg Sweden the development of further strategic directors to fully understand the issues initiatives.
The board will be actively kk Hillerd Denmark at hand, and ensures that the process of involved in the development of strategy kk Wakefield UK the formal meetings is not disrupted by during 2015.
Lucy Dimes kk Diversity Dinner detailed background discussions with kk Wakefield UK the focus on strategic debate.
David Lowden kk Arlv Sweden All our non-executive In addition to the scheduled meetings, kk Wakefield UK directors increased the Chairman meets formally with the Maarit Aarni-Sirvi kk Diversity Dinner non-executive directors at least once kk Siegen Germany their understanding each year without the executive directors Andrew Wood kk Hillerd Denmark by talking to our being present.
In 2014, this meeting was kk lsted Denmark held on 27 November and discussed employees at site visits kk Wakefield UK the composition of the board and its or internal dinners committees, succession planning, the Lucy and Maarit attended the Diversity quality and timeliness of board papers, Dinner for senior female leaders in 2014. corporate governance and the boards within the group and their mentors on priorities for 2015.
The dinner is one of the initiatives established by the Women In 2014, the board also met with the in Berendsen network to support the management teams of the UK Manage development of female executive talent for Value businesses to review and within the business.
The initiative is discuss their business line strategies.
fully supported by the board, and the The meetings in May 2014 included input and attendance of non-executive site visits to our newly converted CL directors at the event is seen as a Workwear plant in Wakefield, West valuable part of the mentoring process.
Yorkshire, and gave board members detailed insights into the operations of our UK Manage for Value businesses, their challenges and opportunities.
In 2015, the board will meet the Board attendance in 2014 management teams from our German Executive directors Independent Board meetings Attendance Workwear business and the newly acquired UK Cleanroom business.
Peter Ventress No 100% Kevin Quinn No 100% Non-executive directors Lucy Dimes Yes 100% Iain Ferguson No 100% David Lowden Yes 100% Maarit Aarni-Sirvi Yes 86% Andrew Wood Yes 100% % based on the meetings entitled to attend Maarit Aarni-Sirvi joined the board on 1 March 2014.
Maarit was unable to attend the May offsite visit, due to a personal commitment which we were advised of in advance of her appointment.
Instead, Maarit travelled to the UK in October to meet with the UK Manage for Value management Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 69 Corporate governance statement continued During the year, all directors confirmed The papers include detailed monthly Induction as they are required to do annually accounts and reports from the Chief All new non-executive directors joining that they have been able to allocate Executive Officer, Chief Financial the Berendsen board undertake a formal sufficient time to discharge their Officer and the business line Managing and personalised induction programme responsibilities effectively.
The quality of the papers which covers, for example: the operation also required to notify the Chairman and reports supplied on a monthly and activities of the group including and the board of any alterations to their basis is regularly reviewed and was site visits and meeting members of the external commitments that arise during commended by directors during the senior management teams : the groups the year with an indication of the time 2013 board evaluation when it was noted principal risks and uncertainties: the role commitment involved.
that the quality of information had been of the board and the decision-making consistently improving and provided matters reserved to it: the responsibilities In consultation with the Chairman and sufficient depth for board debates.
of the board committees: and the Chief Executive Officer, the Company strategic challenges and opportunities Secretary manages the provision After each board meeting, the Company facing the group.
of information to the board for their Secretary operates a comprehensive formal board meetings and at other follow-up procedure to ensure that actions Following a discussion with Maarit appropriate times.
are completed as agreed by the board.
Aarni-Sirvi, the Chairman and Company Briefing packs are also circulated at times Secretary, with assistance from Lucy The board uses an electronic board when board meetings are not scheduled.
Dimes who provided feedback on paper system which provides quick, easy These briefing packs ensure that the her own induction in 2012, created a and secure access to board papers and non-executive directors are kept informed comprehensive induction programme materials including a Resource Centre of the latest issues affecting the group.
focusing on current strengths and which contains comprehensive reference required focus areas.
Prior to each board meeting The Chief Executive Officer and the board on 1 March 2014 and began her the directors receive through this system Chief Financial Officer ensure that the induction programme during the second the agenda and supporting papers board is kept fully aware on a timely quarter of 2014. to ensure that they have all the latest basis of business issues and prospects and relevant information in advance of throughout the group.
periodically attended individual business line board meetings, meeting the management teams of each operation, and bringing the key issues raised to the attention of the board.
Information flow Personalised induction at board meetings Name Maarit Aarni-Sirvi Strengths Chairman agrees kk In-depth knowledge of Nordic markets: the meeting agenda kk Detailed operational expertise: kk A strong track record of growing businesses: and kk Extensive international experience.
Focus areas kk Learn about Berendsen and our business lines: Board papers are circulated kk Meet senior management across the group: in advance of meetings and kk Understand board committee activities and membership requirements.
Overview of induction programme kk Met and received presentations from the The site visits were Board meeting management teams of the three core eight times annually business lines: an invaluable part kk Site visits to facilities in Denmark, Netherlands of my induction which and UK: kk Met with the Group Director, Human I thoroughly enjoyed.
Resources on the culture and diversity of the group including succession Action list prepared and I found everyone planning procedures: monitored regularly kk Discussions with the Group Risk Manager on the at Berendsen to be principal risks facing the group, Head of Internal Audit and Group Tax and Treasury Director: incredibly welcoming kk Met group key advisers: and knowledgeable.
kk Reviewed investor feedback reports with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Maarit Aarni-Sirvi Key actions on shareholder requirements: achieved kk Met shareholders and advisers at the 2014 AGM: and kk Discussions with the Chairman.
70 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our induction programmes are designed Specific areas covered at sessions 2014 Evaluation process to be comprehensive and ensure that attended by Berendsen directors the newly appointed directors receive in2014were: accounting and auditing as much information as possible while standards: remuneration: corporate Dr Long briefed the board at its October 2014 meeting on the limiting the quantity of information governance: and the wider economy.
approach and areas of focus supplied as just reading material.
Specific and tailored training, delivered The programme involves a significant by  LLP, time commitment from the newly was also provided to the members of appointed director, other members our audit committee during the year The evaluation process oftheboard and other key individuals covering key themes surrounding was tailored to Berendsen, across the business but this is seen by financial and narrative reporting, and basedon feedback all parties as a worthwhile investment from the board accounting and auditing standards.
ofresources to ensure new appointees are engaged with the business at all The board also regularly receives levelsand are able to hit the ground reports from the Company Secretary Dr Long met each director running in terms of bringing constructive on current or pressing legal, regulatory and the Company Secretary views, challenge and debate to the individually during November and and governance issues and any key or board table.
Training and development Performance evaluation The Chairman is responsible for In February 2015, Dr Long held A comprehensive evaluation of ensuringthat all non-executive follow up sessions with the Chief the performance of the board, its Executive Officer and Chairman directorsreceive ongoing training and committees and each of its directors to discuss initial development.
Training and development iscarried out annually, a process led outcomes needs were also discussedat the bythe Chairman and supported by non-executive directors meeting on the Company Secretary.
The outcome Dr Long will brief the board on 27 November 2014.
Our non-executive of theperformance evaluations are the evaluation results and key directors are conscious of the need to discussed in detail at board meetings recommendations at its April keep themselves properly briefed and andany key recommendations 2015 meeting informed about current issues.
are considered board priorities for the succeeding year.
The annual In 2014, all UK based non-executive evaluation process is an important directors became active members The focus areas identified and mechanism forensuring best practice recommendations will be finalised ofthe Deloitte Academy.
The board will is at the forefront of all of the board Academy provides a programme present the outcomes in the 2015 andcommittees actions.
of briefings and update sessions Annual Report.
offeringguidance and support to The boards three-year cycle for Company Directors on relevant  is illustrated governance topics.
The 2014 performance evaluation was externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review who conducted Berendsen three-year approach our external evaluation in 2011 but has no other connection to the company.
The evaluation process was conducted between November 2014 and February Year 1 Year 3 2015 and included a series of one-onExternal board Internal board one interviews with all directors and evaluation evaluation observations of board and committee led by the Senior Independent meetings.
All directors have endorsed Director the external evaluation process as being a valuable exercise.
The results of the evaluation have been discussed with the Chairman but will be reviewed in detail in March 2015.
The results will be presented to the board in April were the key Year 2 Internal board recommendations will be prioritised for evaluation led by implementation during 2015 and 2016. the Chairman The board will present the results and the recommended actions to shareholders in the 2015 Annual Report.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 71 Corporate governance statement continued The initial outcomes of the evaluation An external independent review of Whistleblowing process have been positive and have the groups internal audit function During 2014, the groups whistleblowing confirmed to the Chairman that the commenced in November 2014. procedure was operated in 27 languages board and its committees operate Findings were discussed by the board in and 16 countries with systems in place effectively and that each director February 2015.
Further information on this to ensure that any concerns were contributes to the overall effectiveness review can be found on page 80 of the addressed confidentially, promptly and and success of the group.
Concerns were raised by employees on three separate issues, In addition to the evaluation process Financial reporting all of which were reported to the described, a review of the Chairmans In addition to group-wide governance, audit committee and responded to performance was led by David Lowden, appropriately 2013: seven separate internal controls and risk management the Senior Independent Director, who processes, the group also has specific issues.
The issues were predominately held confidential discussions with the HR-related, were low level in nature and internal controls and risk management non-executive directors whilst taking into systems to govern the financial reporting did not reveal any significant internal account the views of executive directors.
control failure or have any noteworthy process and preparation of the annual The executive directors are evaluated financial statements.
by reference to their executive duties through a separate process whereby These systems include clear policies and The Company Secretary reports the Chairman and the non-executive procedures for ensuring that the groups to the audit committee biannually directors assess the Chief Executive financial reporting processes and the February and August about any new Officer and the Chief Executive Officer preparation of its consolidated accounts incidents as well as to provide updates assesses the Chief Financial Officer and comply with all relevant regulatory on the integrity of the whistleblowing other members of the Executive Board.
These are procedures and the state of any ongoing comprehensively detailed in the Group investigations and the conclusions Finance Manual, which is used by the reached.
An annual checking process Accountability businesses in the preparation of their was conducted in July 2014 by results.
Financial control requirements the Company Secretary to ensure Annual assessment of the effectiveness are also set out in the Group Finance that all employees are aware of the of internal control systems Manual Minimum Control Framework.
During the year, the board and audit Management representations covering We have also conducted a detailed committee requested, received compliance with relevant policies and internal review of our whistleblowing and reviewed reports from senior the accuracy of financial information are procedures in the year which included management, its advisers, group internal collated on a biannual basis.
benchmarking our procedures against audit and our external auditors to help Detailed accounts for each reporting the Whistleblowing Commission with their annual assessment of the entity are prepared monthly, comprising Code.
A survey was distributed to the effectiveness of the groups internal an income statement, cash flow business line management teams, and control systems.
statement and balance sheet in a the majority of responses were very Through the ongoing processes manner very similar to the year-end positive 100% of respondents were outlined on pages 22 and 23, areas for and half yearly reporting processes.
aware of the whistleblowing system and improvement of internal controls are These are subject to management 86% knew how to report an issue using continuously identified and action plans review and analysis in the financial review the system.
Progress towards completion cycle as set out above.
of how to use the system to report an of actions is regularly monitored by issue, our Whistleblowing Policy and management and the board.
The board Anti-bribery and corruption Guidelines were amended to emphasise considers that none of the areas for the systems confidentiality and ease All businesses within the group are improvement identified constitute a of use.
In addition, marketing materials tasked with adopting a risk-based significant failing or weakness.
were developed and an article was approach to managing any potential included in our corporate newsletter.
The board considers that the information issues relating to bribery and corruption.
We have enabled employees to report that it receives is sufficient to enable it to Risk assessments are required to be any concerns via our group intranet review the effectiveness of the groups completed at least annually, or upon Berendsen Universe.
internal controls in accordance with the any significant changes to the business.
internal control guidance for directors The audit committee is regularly updated issued by the Turnbull Review Group.
As part of the regular review process of group policies and procedures, this year the Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy was updated and approved by the audit committee.
Further information can be found on page 81 of the audit committee report.
72 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements During 2014, 87 separate meetings If shareholders have any concerns, which Relations with shareholders and conference calls were held with the normal channels of communication existing and potential shareholders.
to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Shareholder engagement These meetings were attended by either Financial Officer or the Chairman have Shareholders play an important and the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief failed to resolve or for which contact valuable role in safeguarding the Financial Officer or sometimes both.
is inappropriate, then the Senior groups governance policies through, The meetings focused primarily on Independent Director is available to for example, the election of directors, the groups trading operations and the address them.
To that end, both the monitoring and rewarding their implementation of the groups strategy.
Chairman and the Senior Independent performance and engagement and Where significant views were expressed, Director make themselves available, constructive dialogue with the board.
either during or following the meeting when requested, for meetings with The Chairman is responsible for ensuring via our brokers, these were recorded and shareholders on issues relating to the that there is ongoing and effective circulated to all directors.
The number groups governance and strategy.
communication with shareholders of meetings held is driven by investor During the year, the Chairman of the and that all directors are made aware demand, which was lower in 2014 than board and the committee chairmen of any major shareholders issues or in 2013 when 148 separate meetings received regular guidance and letters concerns.
The chart below shows the were held.
from shareholders, which were then various methods by which we have reviewed by the board and committees communicated with shareholders at their respective next meeting.
during 2014: Annual General Meeting Meeting by country Major shareholder dinner with NEDs The Annual General Meeting takes place UK USA and Canada Rest of Europe kk Held on 27 November: in London.
The 2015 meeting will be held 102 25 19 kk Only non-executive directors present: on 30 April at the Royal Aeronautical kk Attended by six major shareholders: and Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London, kk Topics discussed: 65 W1J7BQ, and details of the meeting 14 Economic outlook: and the resolutions to be proposed are 8 Corporate governance at Berendsen: and set out in the Notice of AGM which is Remuneration.
com from 16 March Financial reporting and 2015.
The Annual General Meeting regulatory announcements gives shareholders, in particular our Meetings by month kk Annual report March : private shareholders, an opportunity to kk Interim results announcement August : and hear about the general development March April kk Regulatory announcements.
of the business and to ask questions Annual results AGM, IMS of the Chairman and, through him, the Webcast and conference call Analyst and investor meetings chairmen of the various committees analyst presentation presentations 4 as well as committee members.
28 kk Following release of annual, half-year and Shareholders attending the meeting are interim results announcements: informed of the number of proxy votes kk Live webcast: May June lodged for each resolution.
kk Presentation can be viewed on Berendsen Investor analyst website after broadcast: and 6 All the directors at the time of the 2014 site visit kk CEO and CFO meetings aim to meet major Annual General Meeting attended that 16 shareholders at least twice a year.
meeting and it is expected that all board members will attend the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2015 and be Website August September available to meet shareholders.
kk Investor relations section: Half year results Half year results kk Access to financial reports and other To facilitate easier voting for those Webcast and Webcast and shareholder documents: analyst presentation analyst presentation shareholders who hold their shares in kk Share price information: certificated form, we have put in place 4 15 kk Financial and dividend calenders: and systems to allow voting to be conducted kk Link to Shareview registrar shareholder site.
electronically through our Registrars October November website www.
Annual General Meeting IMS conference call 1 kk All shareholders can attend and 13 ask questions: and kk All directors attend and are available to speak to shareholders.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 73 Corporate governance statement continued Dear shareholder Nomination committee report I am pleased to present to you the report of the work of the nomination committee during 2014.
We were delighted to welcome Maarit Aarni-Sirvi to the board in March, having recommended her appointment to the board following a robust recruitment process which we described in our 2013 report.
Following Maarits appointment, she embarked on a rigorous induction programme which was monitored by the committee to ensure it provided her with the knowledge of the business and our culture in order that she could become an effective contributor to our board and Iain Ferguson committees as quickly as possible.
More information on Maarits induction can be Chairman of the nomination committee found on page 70.
2014 Key achievements At Berendsen, we are proud of our culture and our approach to employees at kk Monitored the induction programme all levels across the business.
However, we are not complacent and in 2014 the designed for Maarit Aarni-Sirvi to committee has reviewed the outcomes of our first Employee Engagement ensure that it was comprehensive and Survey which was conducted in the latter part of 2013.
I am extremely pleased to carefully tailored to Maarits report that on the whole the responses to the survey were positive, with an overall requirements: engagement score of 69% and 67% of our workforce feeling very strongly or kk Reviewed the findings of the groups strongly motivated and engaged with our Vision and Values.
first Employee Engagement Survey: We have carried out further work on our succession planning and talent kk Ensured further development of development programmes during the year, reviewing updates provided by the the management succession and Group Director, Human Resources.
I am pleased with the work we have done development plans for the Executive and feel that good progress has been made to date.
We will continue to monitor Board and senior executives: and and develop our programmes in 2015. kk Considered the extension of Iain Finally, the committee has reviewed my own appointment as Chairman of the Fergusons appointment for a further Company as my current term of office was due to expire in 2015.
I was not present three-year term.
in any of the committees discussions on this matter, but I am delighted that my fellow directors are satisfied with my performance and have recommended that Areas of focus in 2015 mycontract of service should be extended for another three years.
kk Conduct a thorough board Iain Ferguson composition review following the Chairman of the nomination committee completion of the strategy review: 26 February 2015 and kk Continuing to focus on succession planning and talent management development.
Induction to the committee includes Membership and meetings detailed briefings with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in order to Committee membership If you would like to discuss any understand the issues being discussed at aspect of the committees The committee met three times during board and Executive Board level.
activities with me, please feel 2014 January, April and December free to email me at and received presentations from the The board requires the nomination chairman@berendsen.
eu Group Director, Human Resources in committee members to have an May.
At the request of the committee understanding of: chairman, other individuals and external Role of the committee kk The strategic issues and commercial advisers may be invited to attend all challenges affecting the company and The committee is responsible for or part of any meeting, as and when the market in which it operates and regularly reviewing the composition appropriate.
The Chief Executive how they affect succession planning of the board, taking into account Officers role on the committee is to and board composition: the benefits of diversity, the provide a better understanding of the breadth of experience and skills strategic issues facing the company and kk The leadership needs of the required.
The committee also makes the current skills and experience of the organisation, both executive and recommendations with regard to any Executive Board.
non-executive, with a view to ensuring changes to board and senior executive the continued ability of the group to succession planning and provides Induction and experience compete effectively: recommendations to the board as to Upon appointment to the committee, kk The importance and benefits of the appointment and reappointment non-executive directors are provided diversity including gender : and of all directors.
The terms of reference with details about the current of the committee were reviewed kk The requirements under the UK composition of the board, the companys andapproved by the board in December Corporate Governance Code and best succession planning procedures and 2013 and are available on the companys practice guidance on effective board how the board and committees annual website or upon request from the and committee composition.
74 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Activity during 2014 Committee attendance in 2014 Committee Review of Iain Fergusons appointment Committee members Independent meetings Attendance Iain Fergusons three-year contract Iain Ferguson No 100% for services was due to expire Lucy Dimes No 100% on 30 April 2015.
The committee conducted a review of his position David Lowden Yes 100% before reaching a decision on whether Maarit Aarni-Sirvi No 100% his contract should be extended for a further three years subject to AGM Andrew Wood Yes 100% reappointment.
Iain was not present Yes 100% when his appointment was discussed.
Peter Ventress The committee took the following % based on the meetings entitled to attend considerations into account before Maarit Aarni-Sirvi joined the committee on 1 March 2014 reaching a decision: kk Performance: In addition, the board and committee The board strongly supports the need kk Length of tenure on the board: meet with specifically targeted for diversity and inclusion at all levels of kk Board composition: individuals identified as potential our business and has made this a major executive talent during their site visits in objective of our talent management kk Independence: and the year.
Further details of Berendsens programme.
Our Gender Diversity kk Other external commitments.
succession planning and talent Policy ensures that each time a member development activity are set out on of senior management or a director is The committee is confident that page36.
recruited at Berendsen at least one of Iain will continue to provide valuable the shortlisted candidates is female.
contributions to meetings and has The committee also monitors a schedule been consistently pleased with his The board has decided that the on the length of tenure of the Chairman performance reviews.
In addition, the and non-executive directors, and reviews minimum target for board gender committee believes that Iains external diversity is 25% female directors.
potential departure dates assuming the commitments have not negatively relevant directors are not permitted to It is pleasing to note that following the impacted his commitment to Berendsen serve more than three three-year terms.
appointment of Maarit on 1 March 2014, and therefore recommended to the The committee is satisfied that adequate the composition of the board exceeds board that Iains contract of services succession planning is currently in place this target.
The diagram below shows should be extended for a further for the Executive Board and senior how the board has progressed towards three years.
executives, but will keep succession and exceeded its target.
planning under review and monitor Induction programme the progress and success of the development programmes which have The committee monitored the creation 2012 of the induction process designed for been established for relevant employees.
The committee ensured that the induction was Employee engagement survey 2013 2013 14% comprehensive, tailored for Maarit, and In April, the committee reviewed the provided enough breadth of information results of, and actions arising from, 2014 2014 29% to enable Maarit to feel comfortable in Berendsens first company-wide Oneher role.
A full description of Maarits Berendsen employee engagement induction is set out on page 70. survey which was conducted in the latter Although gender diversity is a key area part of 2013 and described in detail in the of focus throughout the group, the Succession planning Our People section of our 2013 Annual board considers all diversity issues in Report.
An update on the agreed next The committee received presentations the broadest sense including, but not in May 2014 from Chris Thrush, steps is provided in this years report on limited to, nationality and ethnicity.
As a multinational business, it is crucial The presentations provided details that the board considers all diversity Diversity of the succession planning and practices that could affect its efficiency development programmes throughout Berendsen has established a number and leadership.
the group for senior management.
of diversity programmes and initiatives Potential successors, including a mix across the group including the Women of internal and external candidates in Berendsen network and the company have been identified for the top 100 wide diversity policy, details of which are senior management positions and the set out in detail on page 40. committee reviewed the profiles of all of The committee is pleased with the level these positions during the year.
of awareness across the business and strongly supports, and receives updates on, all of the diversity initiatives.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 75 Corporate governance statement continued Audit committee report Dear shareholder I am pleased to give you an overview of the operation and scope of the committee and report on our work over the past year.
The committee has a vital role in providing assurance that the financial statements provide a true and fair view of the groups financial affairs.
As part of this assurance, we conduct a review of any significant financial judgements made during the year and any key financial reporting issues.
During 2014, we routinely considered potential forfraud in revenue recognition and management override of controls.
Andrew Wood Chairman of the audit committee In addition we considered three key reporting judgements: 2014 key achievements kk Goodwill impairment: kk Reviewed the significant financial kk A potential exposure to an environmental liability in Sweden and Holland: and judgements made during the year and in the preparation of the Annual kk Quality of Earnings.
Report and Accounts: The committee concluded that we are comfortable with the judgements being kk At the request of the board, conducted made on all of these issues.
More details can be found on page 78 of this report.
a review of the 2014 Annual Report and after careful consideration, the Having been asked to do so by the board, we conducted a comprehensive committee was satisfied to confirm review of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and confirmed that they are fair, that it was fair, balanced and capable balanced and capable of being understood by shareholders and that they include of being understood by shareholders: all the necessary information to allow our shareholders to assess Berendsens performance, business model and strategy.
We have advised the board kk Continued a programme of presentations from business line accordingly.
For further information on our review, please see page 81 of this report.
management facilitating a discussion We have also received regular updates on the work of the internal auditors during on the key risks and controls: the year.
The primary focus of the comprehensive Internal Audit Programme for kk Ensured a comprehensive Internal 2014 was to provide assurance on key internal control activities, and around the Audit Programme: control and governance framework of the key strategic initiatives that have been kk Commissioned an independent review put in place to deliver the Group Strategic Plan.
We have been satisfied with the of the internal audit function: work of the internal auditors, who conducted over 40 reviews throughout the year kk Conducted a review of the external of which 5% were graded high priority.
We have established a rigorous follow-up auditors work throughout the year procedure to ensure that all of the recommendations made by Internal Audit are and made a final recommendation to implemented in a timely manner.
the board to reappoint We commissioned an independent review of the internal audit function, which  LLP for the commenced in November 2014.
The results of the review were presented to year ending 31 December 2015: and the committee on 19 February 2015 and the committee will ensure that the key kk Considered cyber risk.
recommendations are implemented during the year.
The review concluded that the Areas of focus in 2015 internal audit function is considered to be in the top quartile for a group of our size and type.
The review identified a number of improvement opportunities and these kk Reviewing the significant judgements will be considered during 2015. applied in the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts: The committee has monitored the implementation of the suggestions drawn from kk Ensuring that Berendsen is fully the independent risk management review in 2013, and we have been extremely compliant with the UK Corporate pleased with the level of commitment shown by the risk management function Governance Code 2014 effective to implement these suggestions and further strengthen the risk management 1 January 2015 in respect of internal systems.
In particular, during 2014, risk workshops have been held to identify control and risk management: and manage risks arising from deliberate actions and we have also, via our IT Steering Group, assessed cyber risk and have agreed on actions to strengthen kk Ensuring that the key risks identified by the board are effectively managed: the management control activities around it.
We have also strengthened our IT minimum control framework.
kk Review actions to strengthen the controls in place to manage cyberrisk: In December 2014, we agreed the required changes to ensure that Berendsen kk Reviewing the independence and will be in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 effective effectiveness of the external auditors: 1 January 2015 in respect of internal control and risk management during the and course of 2015.
The committee will monitor the implementation of the changes kk Ensuring that there is a comprehensive andI will report back to shareholders on this issue in our next report.
internal audit programme and that any Following a review of the external auditors independence and effectiveness, key recommendations from the the committee has made a recommendation to the board that the external auditors independent review are implemented.
are reappointed for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Further information on this review and our policy on non-audit fees can be found on page 79 of this report.
If you would like to discuss any Andrew Wood aspect of the committees Chairman of the audit committee activities with me, please feel 26 February 2015 free to email me at auditchairman@berendsen.
eu 76 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent review of ourinternalaudit function As part of its role of ensuring that our systems of internal control are effective, the audit committee commissioned an independent Internal Audit effectiveness review in 2014.
The review was carried out by AuditR in Q4 2014 and its findings were presented to the audit committee in February 2015.
The review concluded that the internal audit function is considered to be in the top quartile for a group of our size and type and highlighted a number of improvement opportunities.
The process was considered valuable by all involved, highlighting our continued desire to ensure that our internal audit function is at the forefront of best governance practice.
Role of the committee Committee attendance in 2014 The committees principal function is Committee members Independent Committee meetings Attendance to monitor the integrity of the groups Lucy Dimes Yes 100% financial reports and to manage the boards relationship with the groups David Lowden Yes 100% external auditors.
Other functions Maarit Aarni-Sirvi Yes 100% include: reviewing and monitoring the financial reporting process: the annual Andrew Wood Yes 100% audit: the effectiveness of the groups % based on meetings entitled to attend internal controls: the groups internal Maarit Aarni-Sirvi joined the committee on 1 March 2014 audit and risk management systems and the independence of the external auditor The committee met three times during The board requires the audit committee and the provision of non-audit services.
members to have an understanding of: The committee is required to report All members of the committee are nonits findings to the board, identifying kk The principles and content of, and executive directors and all are considered any matters on which it considers that developments in, financial reporting by the board to be independent.
action or improvement is needed and to including the applicable accounting Other individuals and external advisers make recommendations on the steps to standards and statements of may attend each meeting at the request be taken.
recommended practice: of the committee chairman.
At least once a year, the committee kk Key aspects of the groups operations meets with the external auditors and the Induction and experience including corporate policies, Head of Internal Audit without executive group financing and systems of The board considers that Andrew management present.
The committee internal control: Wood has sufficient recent and relevant chairman also regularly meets with the financial experience to discharge his kk Matters that might influence or distort Head of Internal Audit and the external duties as chairman of the committee.
the presentation of accounts and key auditors, again without any other Andrew Wood is a Chartered figures: and member of management being present.
Management Accountant and has kk The role of internal and external The committees terms of reference over 15 years experience as a Group auditing and risk management.
include all relevant matters required Finance Director at two FTSE 250 listed by Rule 7.1.
3 of the Disclosure and companies.
Andrew is also chairman During 2014, and in advance of the Transparency Rules and the Code of the audit committee at Air Partner August audit committee, Maarit and are available on the companys plc, Lavendon Group plc and Stobart Aarni-Sirvi was provided with a website or on request from the Group Limited.
comprehensive induction programme Company Secretary.
which included discussions with the audit Berendsen provides an induction committee chairman, Chief Financial programme for new committee Officer, Head of Internal Audit, the members and at least annually, Group Risk Manager and representatives provides ongoing training to enable all from our external auditors to ensure the committee members to carry out she felt confident with the above their duties.
Further information on Maarits induction can be found on page 70.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 77 Corporate governance statement continued The main areas the audit committee focused on during 2014 25% 5% 20% Internal control and risk Training and Internal audit function management systems committee performance kk Received reports from Head of Internal Audit kk Received update reports kk Reviewed the committees at each meeting from the Group Risk Manager performance over the year kk Met Head of Internal Audit without kk Regular reviews of the schedule kk Received a training session management present of key controls documenting from PwC on regulatory how the most significant risks developments in corporate kk Commissioned independent review facing the group are managed reporting of internal audit function kk Reviewed a risk management kk Agreed 2015 Internal Audit Plan update on the progress made throughout 2014 and how the group is managing cyber risk kk Reviewed the groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy kk Reviewed with the Finance Director of UK Flat Linen, the management of key risks, initiatives and changes in controls with a focus on textile inventory and fixed assets 25% kk Reviewed the group delegated Integrity of financial authorities statements and announcements kk Received a biannual update Audit Committee on the group whistleblowing system kk 2013 and 2014 year-end Activity in 2014 accounts reviewed kk Reviewed the IIC report key accounting judgements on Audit Tendering and significant issues kk Reviewed the proposed changes kk Reviewed preliminary on risk management and internal results announcement control to ensure compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate kk Fair, balanced and Governance Code understandable review of 2014 Annual Report kk 2014 half-year results reviewed key accounting judgements and significant issues 25% kk Reviewed half-year results announcement External Audit kk Reviewed external auditor reports on year-end and half-year Significant financial judgements in 2014 financial statements The key reporting judgements considered by the committee and discussed kk Met PwC audit partner without with the external auditors during the year are provided below: management present Issues Judgements kk Chairman of the committee attendedthe PwC international Goodwill impairment The committee reviewed the level of headroom service partners meeting The committee assessed the carrying value provided by the business cash flows and of goodwill based on the future cash flow discount rate utilised and challenged the kk Agreed with PwC, the partner for projections of the business.
basis of these as appropriate.
It concluded 2015 audit, a successor to Chris that significant headroom exists and that the Burns and ensured that his induction application of reasonable sensitivities to the programme through the 2014 audit cash flows would not impact the carrying value was full and appropriate of goodwill.
kk Discussed external auditor strategy, Contingent liabilities The claim on these warranties, which were scope and fees for 2014 The committee reviewed the strength of given in a clear and unequivocal manner, kk Reviewed reports from PwC the claim on the warranties received for was confirmed following a review by the on the 2014 year-end audit and environmental damage when it acquired companys lawyers.
agreed 2014 external audit fees laundry sites in Sweden and Holland.
kk Assessed qualifications, expertise, Quality of earnings The committee was presented with an analysis resources and independence of PwC The committee received the impact of any of a limited number of immaterial and unusual or kk Assessed effectiveness matters that might influence or distort the non-trading items and concluded that the effect of external audit process presentation of the accounts and ensured that of these were not material to a fair and balanced these are appropriately disclosed.
Potential for fraud in revenue recognition The committee considered its risk processes andmanagement override of controls and controls and confirmed that these risks are The committee considered the presumed appropriately managed.
risks of fraud in revenue recognition and management override of controls as defined by auditing standards and the threat to risk.
78 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit tender External audit Policy on non-audit services The last competitive audit tender was in kk The objective of maintaining a policy The committee manages the relationship 2006, when PwC was appointed by the on non-audit services is to ensure with the external auditor currently, board on the recommendation of the that the provision of such services  LLP PwC audit committee.
Prior to this date and does not impair the external auditors on behalf of the board.
This includes from the formation of The Davis Service independence or objectivity: conducting annual evaluations of the Group Plc now Berendsen plc on external auditor and providing final kk The external auditor cannot be 18 February 1980, the external audit was recommendations to the board on their engaged to perform any assignment performed by PwC previously Coopers reappointment, remuneration and other where the output is then subject to and Lybrand and BDO Stoy Hayward.
their review as external auditor: There are no contractual obligations that kk All services provided by the external restrict the audit committees capacity Services provided by the to recommend a particular firm for auditor other than the audit itself external auditors are regarded as non-audit services appointment as auditor.
Audit-service Non-audit-service no matter how directly related to or The committee has taken note of 0.9 0.9 0.9 consequential upon the audit they the provisions of The Statutory Audit may be : and Services for Large Companies Market kk The approval of the committee or Investigation Mandatory Use of chairman of the committee should 0.4 0.4 Competitive Tender Processes and an emergency situation occur and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 0.2 urgent advice be needed is required 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 the Order which will require in advance of any new engagement the mandatory tendering of the audit with the external auditors to provide contract every ten years subject to Effectiveness non-audit services in excess of transitional provisions, and applies to 50,000.
In 2014, as part of its annual evaluation, Berendsen plc in respect of the financial the committee reviewed and considered year ending 31 December 2015.
As PwC Permitted non-audit services the effectiveness of the external audit has effectively been the Companys kk Advice and assurance on process.
This review included an auditor for more than 20 years, the financial reporting, interpretation assessment of the external auditors provisions of the Order requiring a and implementation of qualifications, expertise, resources and mandatory tender process will apply to accounting standards, tax and independence, and also the re-evaluation the Companys audit engagement made governance regulations: of any issues regarding the external audit on or after 17 June 2020.
The committee process raised in committee meetings kk Advice and assurance in respect may decide to tender the audit contract throughout the year.
The committees of direct and indirect tax matters in advance of that date, and will ensure assessment was informed by senior including tax compliance, certain that an appropriate statement is made management providing feedback on areas of tax planning advice, tax in future audit committee reports in the external audit process and any consultancy services and employee accordance with provisions of the Order.
comments provided by the Chief tax services: and Chris Burns tenure as audit partner for Financial Officer, the Head of Internal kk Project assurance and advice.
Berendsen will come to an end upon Audit and the Company Secretary.
completion of the 2014 audit year.
Specifically prohibited Non-audit services provided by PwC Following meetings between Andrew non-audit services were also reviewed and, as described Wood and PwC, it was concluded that kk Appraisal or valuation services, below, are not considered to have Matthew Mullins will succeed Chris Burns fairness opinions or contributionaffected the auditors independence.
as audit partner from 2015 onwards.
in-kind reports: Following the assessment, we are kk Broker or dealer, investment adviser pleased to report that the committee or investment banking services: is satisfied that PwC continue to be kk Bookkeeping services related independent and capable of conducting to accounting records or the external audit objectively and financial statements: professionally.
Feedback arising from the kk Design and implementation evaluation process has been provided of financial information systems: by the committee chairman to the audit partner, and a formal recommendation kk Internal audit outsourcing services: has been made to the board, for kk Legal and other services unrelated approval by shareholders, that the to the audit: or external auditors are reappointed and kk Management functions including their remuneration for the 2015 audit human resources.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 79 Corporate governance statement continued Non-audit services Assurance is provided in the key areas Risk of risk to the business, as well as in the The group follows a pre-approval policy The committee oversees the groups risk areas of core financial and IT internal for the provision of non-audit services by management framework by receiving control, and where there are regulatory the external auditor.
Other accounting regular reports from the Group Risk or legal requirements.
A key focus firms were used for larger, nonManager and biannually assessing the of internal audit activity in 2014 has audit services, including taxation schedule of key controls to ensure that been on providing assurance on key and consultancy advice.
Details of they are appropriate for managing internal control activities, along with services provided by the auditor and the risks identified.
The committee providing assurance around the control its associates are included in note 3 on is satisfied that there are established and governance framework of the key page 130.
The focus of the policy is to procedures for the identification and strategic initiatives that have been put in ensure that the independence of the management of risks.
Further details place to deliver the Group Strategic Plan.
external auditor is not compromised, of the principal risks and uncertainties and where possible, other accounting The committee receives a report on facing the group and risk management firms are used.
During 2014, the external internal audit activity at each meeting, processes can be found on pages 24 to auditor conducted 400,000 of nonand monitors the status of internal audit 31 of the Risk report.
audit services which were related to tax recommendations and managements compliance and tax advisory.
IT risk management cyber risk The committee also reviews annually the The committee has monitored the During 2014, the committee monitored adequacy, qualifications and experience development of EU legislation in the work undertaken by the risk of the groups internal audit resources respect of Auditors and Audit reporting, management function to manage cyber and the nature and scope of internal and in particular the provisions of EU risk.
An independent external review audit activity in the context of the Regulation No.
537 2014 which introduce was conducted in Q1 2014, by Grant groups risk management system as set from 17 June 2016 a cap on fees for Thornton on Cyber Risk which provided out on page 24. certain non-audit services at 70% of the suggestions to further strengthen external audit fee, as well as a prohibition our IT processes and response plans.
Independent review of on the provision of certain non-audit Further action will be taken during 2015,  services by the incumbent external including ethical hacking.
The committee will ensure As part of the groups desire to be at will be provided with the findings of that the group will comply with these the forefront of corporate governance, the exercise.
provisions and that the policy on nonan independent internal audit audit services will be reviewed in line with effectiveness review was completed Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy the Regulation.
by AuditR anexternal company who As part of our regular review of group completed the independent review of policies and procedures, the committee risk management during 2013 during Internal audit reviewed and approved an updated 2014.
The review included input from Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy in Our group internal audit function, key management and members of the December 2014.
The policy updates led by the Head of Internal Audit, board, as a well as review of internal were based on the feedback received is appropriately resourced with the audit processes and output.
The findings from the business through a survey skills and experience relevant to of the review were presented to the audit performed during Q1 2014 and the the operations of the group, and is committee at the 19 February meeting.
review of the current anti-bribery and supported by specialist resources where corruption risk assessments from across The committee was pleased to note that required.
The Head of Internal Audit the internal audit function is considered all businesses.
The updated policy is accountable to the committee, has includes the minimum procedures that to be in the top quartile for a group of access to the committee members at our size and type.
The review found that should be in place across businesses any time, and meets independently with to ensure compliance, as well as the function is well positioned, provides the committee chairman regularly during good assurance and operates with a detailed guidance and templates to the year.
perform anti-bribery and corruption flexible resource model including a senior, experienced and well respected risk assessments.
The policy has been strengthened further by incorporating team with access to external expertise when required.
The review identified a new training materials.
number of improvement opportunities and these will be considered during 2015.
80 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements During the course of the committees Review of the 2014AnnualReport review, the following questions were At the request of the board, the committee was asked to consider whether considered for debate: the 2014 Annual Report was fair, balanced and capable of being understood Fairness and Balance by shareholders.
In order to arrive at a position where the committee were satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Annual Report, kk Is the Annual Report open and acomprehensive review process was followed.
Does it report on weaknesses, difficulties and challenges as well as successes?
kk Is there consistency between different sections of the Annual Report, Received detailed briefings on the reporting including between the narrative and requirements and key areas to be considered when the financial statements?
performing the review kk Does the Annual Report explain our key performance indicators KPIs andtheir linkage to strategy?
Agreed an accounts production timetable Understandable allowingsufficient time for acomprehensive review kk Does the Annual Report contain of early drafts to enable input and involvement from the committee simpleexplanations of business models, strategies and accounting policies, using precise and clear language?
Considered the external auditors review of the kk Is the Annual Report easy to read: AnnualReport and Accounts and held discussions forexample is the narrative broken withmanagement to provide feedback upby quotes, tables, case studies andother graphics?
kk Does the Annual Report have a consistent tone across all sections and The committee conducted a thorough review of provide clear signposting to where the final draft Annual Report to ensure that it is fair, additional information can be found?
balanced and understandable After careful review, the committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report was fair, balanced and capable of being understood by shareholders, and advised the The audit committees comments are incorporated board accordingly.
before the Annual Report is finalised By the order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 26 February 2015 Reported conclusions to the board Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 81
