Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Report Charles Berry Chairman of the Nomination Committee Current members Name Attendance Charles Berry Chairman Charles Berry 5 of 5 Keith Cochrane Keith Cochrane 5 of 5 Rick Menell Rick Menell 5 of 5 1 John Mogford John Mogford 4 of 4 2 Lord Robertson 5 of 5 Notes 1.
John Mogford was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014.
Lord Robertson retired from the Committee on 31 January 2015.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and two Non-Executive Directors.
John Mogford joined the Committee at the start of 2014, and Lord Robertson retired from the Committee on 31 January 2015.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Berry.
Senior members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
There were three scheduled meetings and two additional meetings held during the year.
Details of the attendance of the members of the Committee for the 52 weeks to 2 January 2015 are contained in the table above.
The Chairman does not chair the meeting when the matters under consideration relate to him or his position.
Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to any of the other Committee members, they would excuse themselves from the meeting.
Committees role The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
The Committee was evaluated as part of the 2014 Board evaluation process, conducted externally by Independent Board Review.
In particular, the process around Sir Jim McDonalds appointment was highlighted as being smoothly handled, as well as the continued progress towards enhanced transparency of decision-making.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 83 Nomination Committee Report continued Independence The Nomination Committee reviewed and confirmed the independence of all Non-Executive Directors and in particular Lord Robertson who, before his retirement in January 2015, had been a Non-Executive Director of the Company for a period of 11 years.
In accordance with the Code, a rigorous review was undertaken which examined his continued contribution to the Board and its Committees and his external interests and roles.
It was concluded that the Board still considered all of its Non-Executive Directors, including Lord Robertson prior to his retirement, to be independent in character and judgement.
The continued service as directors for both Rick Menell and John Mogford was specifically reviewed, in light of their respective lengths of service, as noted above at page 79.
Processes are in place to identify any business relationships held by Non-Executive Directors or additional directorships or significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies which may be of relevance in determining the independence of a Non-Executive Director.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors continue to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Board appointments The Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This process includes drawing up a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular appointment, together with a review of the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors.
The existing balance of the Board and the time commitment required are also taken into consideration when assessing candidates.
A formal search process was undertaken in 2014 to recruit a new Non-Executive Director to succeed Lord Robertson.
The Company engaged an external search consultancy, The Inzito Partnership, to identify a successor.
The Inzito Partnership has no other connection with the Company.
A sub-committee was formed to produce a short list of candidates from the long list produced by the Inzito Partnership and the Committee recommended the appointment of Sir Jim McDonald to the Board.
Succession planning The Committee continued to give significant meeting time and focus to senior executive succession planning, identifying the talent pool for potential candidates and succession planning within the Group.
During the year, the Director of Human Resources presented a review of senior executive succession planning, containing details of ongoing or proposed talent development, the methods for identifying and cultivating potential internal candidates, and the balance of internal and external recruiting for the most senior positions.
Attention and consideration was given in 2014 to developing a longer-term succession pool and establishing development roles to provide additional experience and opportunities for high-potential talent.
The Committee also spends time on succession planning for the various Board level roles.
Boardroom diversity The considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee which are available on the Companys website.
Specifically, the Nomination Committee must consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender in identifying and recommending candidates.
The Nomination Committee recommends appointments to the Board based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to the role in order to promote the success of the Company.
The Board acknowledges the benefits a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom.
Among other things, a diverse board encompasses diversity of experience, social background, education and training, life skills and personal attributes, as well as differences in age, nationality, race and gender.
The Board approved a policy with respect to Board diversity at its meeting in January 2014 and the Nomination Committee has operated under and reported against this policy from this date.
The recent focus on Board diversity has centred on gender and the Board aspires to maintain a significant level of female representation on the Board.
At the end of the financial year, two of the ten Board members of the Company were female 20%.
Following the resignation of Lord Robertson at the end of January 2015, this percentage increased to 22%.
The Board will continue to consider its policy with respect to Board diversity on future appointments but will not place a higher regard for one form of diversity over any other.
The appropriate composition of the Board as a whole with regard to the size and activity of the Company will be taken into account at all times.
Charles Berry On behalf of the Nomination Committee 25 February 2015 84 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
