Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee Introduction As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Through this report, I hope we will demonstrate our commitment, as an Audit Committee, to our responsibilities under the Code and how we have discharged them effectively during the year.
The revised Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 October 2014, will be reflected in next years report.
Key objective Our key objective is to provide effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
We do this by focusing on, amongst other things: the adequacy of accounting policies, practices and disclosures: the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor: and oversight of the Groups systems of internal control, framework for identification and management of business risks and related compliance activities.
Membership I chair the Committee with the current members being Melanie Gee, John Mogford and Sir Jim McDonald, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Rick Menell was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014 and resigned from the Committee on 1 January 2015.
Jim was appointed to the Committee coincident with his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2015.
Both Melanie and John have been members of the Committee for the full year and to the date of this report.
Each of the Committee members has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters and has been selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil our responsibilities.
Summary biographies have been presented on pages 70 and 71.
Responsibilities As a Committee, we are responsible for: reviewing the announcements of the Groups financial results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial Statements, and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and Listing Rules requirements: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices, including critical accounting policies and those judgements and estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that the processes underlying the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are robust and supportive of the assertion reached by the Board that the document, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, covering their appointment, audit quality and effectiveness, independence and fees: reviewing and approving the remit of the Internal Audit function, ensuring its independence and that there are the necessary resources and access to information available in order for it to fulfil its mandate: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems for financial control, financial reporting and risk management, incorporating a review of reports on any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or unethical behaviour: The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 85 Report of the Audit Committee continued Responsibilities continued oversight of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption AB&C programme and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance: and reviewing treasury policy including foreign exchange exposure.
The terms of reference can be found on the Groups website, weir.
Committee evaluation The Committee was evaluated as part of the 2014 Board evaluation process, conducted externally by Independent Board Review.
It concluded that the performance of the Committee has continued to improve over recent years, with good levels of challenge on key issues, persistence and a comprehensive annual agenda.
The Committee receives well-presented papers and good reports from management and internal audit.
However, there are always areas where improvements can be made, for example risk assurance will be an area of focus in 2015: we can do more here and the revised Code places more responsibilities on boards and audit committees in this regard.
Meetings We met four times during the period.
Each Committee meeting takes place prior to a Board meeting, during which I provide a report on our activities.
There is at least one meeting each year when we meet with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors separately, without any executive management present.
This provides us with the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised by, or with, the auditors.
We have the ability to call on Group employees to assist in our work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors in order to carry out our roles and duties.
We are also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required.
The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during the calendar year.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP EY attended the meetings as auditors to the Group by invitation.
Audit Committee attendees Charles Berry Chairman Attends by invitation Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation Jon Stanton Finance Director Attends by invitation Keith Ruddock Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee Christopher Morgan Deputy General Counsel Attends as nominee of Keith Ruddock from 18 2 15 Lindsay Dixon Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation Sarah Caldwell Head of Internal Audit to 10 2 14 Attended by invitation Brian Gibson Head of Internal Audit from 10 2 14 Attends by invitation The Committee members attendance at the meetings held during the calendar year is summarised in the table below.
Current members Name Attendance Alan Ferguson Chairman Alan Ferguson 4 of 4 Melanie Gee Melanie Gee 4 of 4 John Mogford John Mogford 4 of 4 1 Sir Jim McDonald Rick Menell 4 of 4 Note 1.
Sir Jim McDonald joined the Committee on 1 January 2015 and has attended both meetings held since that date.
Between the end of the calendar year and the date of this report, there were two meetings of the Audit Committee, both of which were attended by all members of the Committee during that period.
Main activities Over the course of the period since the last Annual Report, our work was focused in the following areas: i financial reporting: ii internal control and risk management: iii internal audit: and iv external audit.
86 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The following sections provide more detail on our specific items of focus under each of these headings, explaining the work we, as a Committee, have undertaken and the results of that work.
i Financial reporting Our principal responsibility in this area is the review and challenge, where necessary, of the actions and judgements of management in relation to the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board, paying particular attention to: critical accounting policies and practices, and any changes therein: decisions requiring judgements and estimates with the most significant effect or where there has been discussion with the external auditor: the existence of any adjustments resulting from the audit: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with accounting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: and the processes surrounding the compilation of the annual report and financial statements with regard to fair, balanced and understandable.
We received formal reports from the Finance Director and the external auditor, summarising the main discussion points for both the half year and full year reporting and explored these in detail at our meetings in January, February and July.
The significant financial reporting issues discussed in the current year are summarised below.
Current period matters 1 Accounting for the acquisition of Trio Engineered Products Trio note 13 The specific items we have discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors, EY, in relation to the 146m acquisition of Trio were: a the Purchase Price Allocation PPA exercise to attribute provisional fair values to separately identifiable intangible assets and the related accounting for deferred tax: b the assessment of provisional acquisition fair values of other assets and liabilities, specifically property, plant & equipment, inventory and provisions: and c compliance of the disclosures in the financial statements with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Management engaged with an independent external advisor to complete the PPA exercise and reported a summary of the underpinning assumptions and related results to us.
We reviewed that summary and also compared the assumptions used to those for other recent acquisitions where appropriate.
The accounting for deferred tax has included technical input from the Group Head of Tax.
We examined the nature and extent of provisional fair value adjustments to other assets and liabilities noting a rigorous process was being undertaken and would be finalised, as required by IFRS 3, in 2015.
Finally, we challenged management on the completeness of the related disclosures and satisfied ourselves that they were complete, accurate, understandable and compliant with IFRS 3.
2 Exceptional items Group-wide efficiency review note 5 The Group announced in November 2014 that it had undertaken a Group-wide review in the third quarter to identify opportunities to reduce costs, increase customer responsiveness and efficiency while aligning resources globally to capture end market opportunities.
This programme was extended towards the end of the fourth quarter in response to the very significant decline in the oil price.
The financial impact of the initiatives underpinning the programme is a cost in 2014 of 49m, which has been reported as exceptional on the face of the Income Statement.
This figure comprises asset impairments of 19m and reorganisation costs which have or will result in a cash out flow for the Group of 30m.
Further detail in relation to the initiatives is provided in the Financial Review on page 46.
As well as being party to discussions at Board level on this subject, the Audit Committee has received detailed reporting from the Finance Director covering the following aspects: i costs by initiative, by division: ii accounting treatment adopted in relation to recognition of provisions and impairments: and iii disclosure of the amounts and related narrative reporting.
The Committee has probed management to understand and confirm that the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets have been met in terms of recognising a provision at the end of the year and received reporting from EY that confirms managements treatment as appropriate.
Furthermore, we considered the nature of these costs in light of the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items.
The Committee agrees with the accounting treatment and disclosure of these items in the 2014 Annual Report.
3 Exceptional items impairment of intangible assets notes 5 and 14 At least once every year, as required, management undertakes a detailed, formal impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets and related reporting is provided to the Audit Committee.
The most significant judgements are in setting the assumptions underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the Cash Generating Units CGUs, specifically the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
In the current year, and as a direct result of the recent very significant drop in the oil price, specific focus has been given to the basis of the assumptions underpinning the business plans of the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs.
In addition, consideration has been given to the long term growth rates and discount rates used in the cash flow models for all the CGUs.
Business plans and budgets were Board approved and underpin the cash flow forecasts.
Specifically in relation to Pressure Control, we have discussed the cash flow forecasts underpinning the impairment test with management to understand the main assumptions around macroeconomic factors, volume price effect and any strategic initiatives.
We agreed that the assumption of the current oil price of around US$50 a barrel, and consequent activity levels, enduring for the next two years with a measured return to more normal levels thereafter is the most appropriate one given what we know today.
On that basis, we agree with the best estimate impairment charge of 160m of the Pressure Control CGU and concur with its allocation against goodwill.
With regard to Pressure Pumping, this business is more mature and had significant levels of headroom between net asset value and discounted cash flows going into the current market downturn.
Management have included in their reporting to us the stress test scenarios that have been applied and we agreed, following a detailed review, that no impairment charge is required.
Although the Weir Gabbioneta CGU is an Oil & Gas business, its focus is on downstream operations and so is not expected to be as adversely impacted by the current market downturn.
However a sensitivity analysis has been undertaken by management and we agreed that no impairment charge is required.
Finally, we have reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements and agree with the reporting of the impairment charge as an exceptional item and the related narrative provided in note 14.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 87 Report of the Audit Committee continued Main activities continued i Financial reporting continued Current period matters continued 4 Contingent liability Philippines Gold Processing & Refining Corporation note 27 A claim has been made by Philippines Gold Processing & Refining Corporation against Weir Services Australia Pty Limited WSA, a subsidiary of the Company as disclosed in note 27.
In relation to this claim, the Group has engaged external legal advisors to support and advise throughout the legal proceedings.
These external legal advisors have provided a letter to the Audit Committee setting out the current status of the claim and discussions have been held with both management and EY with regard to the accounting treatment applied.
On the basis of the external advice and these discussions, the Committee agrees that the disclosure of a contingent liability is appropriate given the significant uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the claim at the balance sheet date and at the date of this report.
Recurring agenda items 1 Accounting for pensions note 24 We have examined these disclosures and we are satisfied they are complete and accurate.
In reaching this conclusion, we have challenged management on the key assumptions used underpinning the valuation, taking assurance from the fact that external advice is taken by them.
During the current year, we gave specific consideration to the additional disclosure provided by management summarising the most recent actuarial funding valuation deficits under the two main UK plans as well as the agreed future contributions under the respective schedules of contributions.
We consider that these disclosures enable users of the financial statements to better understand the risk and impact of the agreed future contributions on the Group.
2 Tax charge and provisioning note 7 The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Finance Director every six months, which covers the following key areas: i status of on-going enquiries and tax audits with local tax authorities: ii the Groups effective tax rate for the current year: and iii the level of provisioning for known and potential liabilities, including significant movements on the prior period.
In addition, the Committee takes comfort from the presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, given by the Group Head of Tax, every year.
A summary of the Groups tax policy is provided in the Financial Review on page 48.
Based on the work we have undertaken in the current year, we are satisfied that the position presented in these financial statements is reasonable and understandable.
3 Accounting for provisions note 22 Total provisions on the Group Balance Sheet are 113m 2013: 55m at the end of the period with the breakdown by category presented in note 22.
The increase on 2013 is a direct result of two factors.
Firstly the recognition of the provision in relation to obligations that existed at the balance sheet date as part of the Group-wide efficiency review 22m, which will result in cash outflows over 2015 and, secondly, the recognition of a provision for US asbestos-related claims 28m.
As explained in detail in the Financial Review on page 49, in light of the recent increase in the US of asbestos-related claims, a review was completed by the Group to assess the adequacy of its insurance policies to meet future settlement and defence costs.
The outcome of this review was the recognition of a provision and equivalent receivable for insurance proceeds for 28m, the latter reported within other receivables note 17.
In addition to receiving Board reporting on this matter, we have challenged management on the assumptions underpinning the liability assessment.
We agree that, given the inherent uncertainty associated with estimating future costs in respect of asbestos-related diseases, the current approach is appropriate.
Furthermore, we agree that the matched receivable representing the insurance cover available is appropriate.
With regard to provisions in overall terms, we have examined the other key movements between the opening and closing provision balances and challenged management on the commercial drivers which caused them.
We have also examined, through discussion and updates provided by the Group General Counsel where it is relevant to do so based on the nature of the provision, the appropriateness of the closing positions.
Nothing arose from our work that gave the Committee any concern.
4 Valuation of inventory note 16 In the prior year, we reported on our work in this area as it related to the excess capacity remaining in certain pressure pumping equipment sectors within the North American gas drilling market as a result of the shift to oil and liquids rich shale formations in Q1 2012 and the related impact on customer activity.
We received an update from management in the current year on this inventory and also considered the implications for inventory valuation of the recent sharp decline in oil price, particularly in light of the increased activity that had been generated in those businesses over the majority of 2014.
Based on the information provided in the areas of inventory reduction initiatives, provisioning and forward purchase commitments, we concluded that management action had been effective and that the level of provisioning was appropriate.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Audit Committee has reviewed the contents of this years annual report and financial statements and the process that has been followed in the preparation of the document.
With regard to the latter, the Committee received a report from management summarising the detailed approach that had been taken which covered, but was not limited to, the following: involvement of a cross section of management across the organisation, including the Group Executive, Group Communications, Group Finance including Group Tax and Group Treasury and Company Secretariat: input and advice from appropriate external advisers, including the Companys brokers and PR agency: use of available disclosure checklists for both Corporate Governance and financial statement reporting: regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies, for example the Financial Reporting Lab: regular weekly meetings of the Disclosure Committee from December to February inclusive, which comprises the key contributors to the document, during which specific consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion: and use of two cold readers: one an employee and member of the Senior Management Group and the other an external, independent proof reader.
The successful completion of this work has been reported to the Board.
88 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements ii Internal control and risk management During the year, we reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its internal control environment.
Our work in this area was supported by reporting from the Head of Internal Audit on the results of the programme of audit visits undertaken: the overall assessment of the internal control environment: and the incidence of any significant frauds or any fraud that involved management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
The Committee also receives regular reporting on the Groups compliance related activities from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit.
In addition, reporting, either verbal or written, from senior management covering any investigations into known or suspected fraudulent activities, including assertions of such via the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, is reviewed.
Since the last Annual Report and Financial Statements, there have been presentations from two of the three Divisional Finance Directors DFDs on the divisional risk dashboards, the significant findings from the internal audit visits and the Compliance Scorecard process over the last 12 months, as well as an overview of their divisional finance teams.
The Compliance Scorecard is a control mechanism whereby each operating company undertakes a self-assessment every six months of their compliance with Group policies and procedures, including key internal controls across a range of categories including finance, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, tax, treasury, Trade & Customs, HR, IT and legal.
As far as the elements relating to finance are concerned, these cover but are not limited to management accounts and financial reporting, balance sheet controls, employee costs and other financial policies.
The scorecard for the second half of the year was enhanced through the addition of new questions in relation to the management of remote locations and treasury operations.
Operating companies are required to gather evidence and undertake sample testing to validate their self-assessment responses.
Internal Audit then has responsibility for confirming the self-assessment responses during planned visits.
Any significant variances are reported to local, divisional and Group management.
Any companies reporting lower levels of compliance are required to prepare improvement plans to demonstrate how they will improve over a reasonable period of time.
The overall compliance scores in percent are tracked over time and reported to the Audit Committee twice a year with the Committee paying particular attention to the variances between self-assessed and Internal Audit assessed scores as well as trends and the performance of newly acquired companies.
Our role with regard to risk is to look at the process of formulating the risk matrix and the assurance provided over internal controls and other mitigating factors.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the principal risks included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
iii Internal audit One of the main duties of the Committee is to review the annual internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced, effective which includes assessing the independence of the function and has appropriate standing within the Company.
As far as the scope of the Internal Audit programme is concerned, the aim is to carry out visits to each operating company in the Group on a periodic, rotational basis.
A risk based approach is taken when deciding which businesses to audit and the scope of each audit.
The factors considered are, amongst other things, the volatility of end markets, critical system or senior management changes in the period, financial results, the timing of the most recent Internal Audit visit and any other assurance reviews undertaken, and whether the business is a recent acquisition.
In addition, the emergence of any common themes or trends in the findings of recent internal audits or compliance scorecard submissions see previous section are taken into consideration.
As part of the annual plan, Anti-Bribery & Corruption reviews are undertaken, focusing on areas such as relationships with agents, accounting for employee expenses and corporate hospitality gifts.
The Internal Audit Plan is reviewed and approved by the Committee each year.
Twice annually the Head of Internal Audit reports on audit activities, progress against the plan and the results of audit visits with particular focus on high priority findings and the action plans, including management responses, to address these areas.
Private discussions between me and the Head of Internal Audit are held during the year and once a year with the full Committee.
I also receive copies of all internal audit reports issued during the year.
iv External audit Auditor effectiveness The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
EY present their detailed audit plan to us each year identifying their assessment of these key risks.
For the current period, the significant risks identified were the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventory, adequacy of liability provisioning, including provisions for legal obligations, exceptional items and the exposure to significant tax risks due to the inherent management judgement required in all these areas.
Our work in each of these areas has been covered in detail earlier in this report.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality of the audit process in addressing these matters is formed by, amongst other things, a review of the reporting from the auditors to the Committee and also by seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
During the first half of the year, management issued a detailed questionnaire to every Finance Manager Director and Divisional Finance Director to collect feedback on the 2013 audit process.
This covered resource and expertise of the audit teams, quality of planning, execution and deliverables as well as an assessment of overall performance.
Resultant themes and findings were discussed between ourselves, management and EY with both management and the auditors reporting to us on the actions being implemented in response.
In addition, on a periodic basis, the Finance Director and Group Financial Controller meet with the overseas external audit teams.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 89 Report of the Audit Committee continued Main activities continued iv External audit continued Auditor effectiveness continued The Committee discussed the Audit Quality Inspection report on EY issued by the FRC in May 2014 at its meetings in July and September and I also had a separate meeting with the lead audit partner to discuss the report.
Although the principal findings of the FRC report indicated a deterioration on the previous year, the Committee agreed that this report, in itself, did not have an impact on our assessment of audit effectiveness at Weir.
Overall management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk, although there are of course some areas where improvements can be made, and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
Based on the input from management and discussions we have had with EY and key finance individuals, we also hold this view.
This process will be repeated in respect of the 2014 audit in advance of the Committees meeting in July 2015.
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditor each year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Matters typically discussed include the auditors assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management and how they have exercised professional scepticism.
I also meet with the lead audit partner outside the formal committee process as necessary throughout the year.
Independence policy and non-audit services The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment and role of the auditor.
This includes keeping under review the auditors independence by providing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by them.
In addition, a formal policy exists which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
All non-audit services require the approval of management and, where the expected cost of the service is in excess of 75,000, the approval of the Audit Committee.
No changes have been made to the policy in the current year.
The auditors confirm their independence at least annually.
Fees payable to EY in respect of audit and assurance services for 2014 of 2.0m 2013: 1.9m were approved by the Committee after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, including the impact of acquisitions, and after being satisfied by EY that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non-audit fee work conducted by EY over the past year for assurance services amounted to 0.1m, which represented 5% of the total fees, including audit fees, and were incurred primarily in relation to other assurance services.
We are of the view that the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors.
Auditor choice, tenure, tendering and reappointment The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, including rotation of the audit partner, each year.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for three years, including 2014.
EY, or its predecessor firms, has been the Companys external auditor, with no formal tender process, since prior to its stock market listing in 1946.
As part of our annual review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit, we conduct an in depth review of their performance as noted above.
There were no matters arising from the review in the current year, which we felt required the service to be tendered immediately.
We have considered the audit tendering provisions outlined in the Code of which we are supportive.
We have also reviewed the subsequent guidance provided by the European Commission and the Competition & Markets Authority CMA.
The European transitional provisions relating to Mandatory Firm Rotation are likely to require rotation of the external auditor of the Group within 6 years from July 2014, effectively the 2020 year end, which is also when the CMA mandates a tender process.
However, we intend to tender the external audit, at the latest, coincident to the next rotation of the incumbent lead audit partner, which would be for the 2017 year end and are starting to plan for this process.
Taking into account the circumstances noted above, this timing is viewed by the Committee as being in the best interests of shareholders.
Having considered the relationship with the independent auditor, their qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness, the Committee concluded that the external auditors remain independent and effective and recommended to the Board that EY be re-appointed as the Companys external auditors for 2015.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint EY as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Our focus for 2015 In addition to our routine business, the Committee will increase its focus on risk assurance as part of the adoption of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
In addition we will progress the audit tender plans so that we are well prepared for this important process.
Alan Ferguson On behalf of the Audit Committee 25 February 2015 90 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
