Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Charles Berry Chairman Dear Stakeholder Achieving excellence in corporate governance remains vitally important to us as a Board, recognising that it is crucial to the overall delivery of the Groups strategy.
I have now been Chairman of the Group for over a year, having been a Non-Executive Director for ten months before that.
I am very proud to set the tone of both the Board and the Company with regards to corporate governance and strive to ensure that this is at the highest standard possible.
I am supported in this endeavour by the committed individuals forming both the Board of Directors and the senior executives of the Company, who establish and maintain business practices and policies that exemplify best practice within the Group.
Within the Our People section of the Sustainability Review above at page 61, we detail the review of our core values undertaken in 2014.
This consultation exercise across the Group confirmed our fundamental drive to do business in an ethical and transparent manner, underpinned by core values which include acting with integrity, being accountable and committing to quality in all that we do.
As a Board, we work hard to deliver consistently in line with these values, demonstrating the behaviours in a manner which inspires our teams across the world to do the same.
UK Corporate Governance Code As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that under my leadership the Board operates effectively and in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the 2012 Code.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Group is reporting on how it has applied the main principles and whether we have complied with the relevant provisions of the 2012 Code.
I am pleased to report that the Group has complied fully with all the principles of the 2012 Code, for the 52 weeks to 2 January 2015, and from that date to the date of approval of this Annual Report, with the exception of one part of a provision which is detailed on page 74.
In September 2014, a revised Code the 2014 Code and related Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Controls were issued, and these apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The amendments are welcomed by us as part of a move towards further transparency and good reporting for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Key changes include disclosures with regards to longerterm viability, risk management internal controls, and also directors remuneration.
Both the Audit and Remuneration Committees, along with the Board, are reviewing current practices with a view to ensuring compliance with the 2014 Code during 2015, which fits with our goal of continuous improvement in our governance arrangements.
Changes to the Board Board and Committee changes during 2014 and early 2015 were as follows, and will enable fresh perspectives to be brought to different aspects of the Groups governance framework.
I was appointed Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee Chairman on 1 January 2014.
Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014 and to the Remuneration Committee on 21 January 2014.
John Mogford was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 21 January 2014.
Sir Jim McDonald was appointed Non-Executive Director and as member of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2015.
Lord Robertson resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 January 2015.
He therefore also ceased to be Senior Independent Director, and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, on that date.
72 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Rick Menell was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 February 2015.
He was appointed to the Audit Committee on 21 January 2014 and ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2015.
Alan Ferguson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 February 2015.
We review our composition and have spent time on succession planning to ensure that we continue to evolve as a Board, enabling us to further enhance our leadership of the Group.
The induction of our new Directors and Committee members remains an important focus, and we continue to work hard towards a cohesive approach between the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors, while maintaining a robust challenge of matters presented for discussion.
Board effectiveness During 2014, the Group submitted an indicative all-share acquisition proposal to the board of Metso Corporation which was subsequently rejected.
As a result of this proposed transaction, the Board of Directors held five additional meetings, as well as extended communications by phone and email.
I felt that the composition and time commitments of the various Board members were tested during this time and found to be highly effective.
I am confident that the Board and its Committees have the experience, skill and commitment to handle additional responsibilities as and when they are required, and have an excellent range of talents which will enable us to respond to challenges faced by the Group.
The Board of Directors and the Board Committees underwent an external evaluation by Independent Board Review during 2014, and the review concluded that the Board was functioning well, with a strong combination of skills and experience being brought by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It is recognised that the Non-Executive Directors are keen to contribute even more to further support the Companys continued growth, and there are aspects of the meeting cycle and agenda format which we can develop to enhance the way we function as a Board.
Further details of the Board evaluation are set out below at pages 80 and 81, and the reports on the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees are set out on pages 83, 86 and 103 respectively, each reflecting the progress which those Committees have made over the course of 2014.
All of our stakeholders are important to us at Weir and contribute greatly to our continued strength as a Group.
We will therefore endeavour to maintain and enhance our high standards of corporate governance in order to protect your interests, and I welcome this opportunity to report in detail on our activities as a Board and our progress during the past year.
Charles Berry Chairman 25 February 2015 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 73 Corporate Governance Report continued The UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and sets out standards of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition and effectiveness, the role of board committees, risk management, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Paper and downloadable versions can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Council via its website at frc.
As a listed company, we must detail how we have complied with the Code and provide an explanation of instances where we have not.
This report, in addition to the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee reports, details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
For the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and from that date to the date of approval of this Annual Report, except in the instance of one part of a provision detailed below, the Board considers that the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code.
Code provision E. 1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
During 2014, Lord Robertson undertook engagement with various stakeholders but he did not attend meetings with a range of major shareholders.
It is considered that the Company has a robust Investor Relations department who oversee such meetings and that there are sufficient processes in place for the issues and concerns of major shareholders to be communicated to all members of the Board such that it is not necessary for the Senior Independent Director to attend these meetings.
He was of course willing to attend such meetings had the need arisen.
The Board does not feel that this in any way impeded its good corporate governance and believes that the practice was in compliance with the main and supporting principles under section E of the Code regarding dialogue with shareholders.
Further details of the Companys relations with its shareholders can be found on page 82.
Leadership The Board of Directors The current Directors of the Company as at the date of this report are as follows: Table of the Board of Directors Name Designation Date of Appointment Date of most recent re-election Charles Berry Chairman 1 March 2013 1 May 2014 Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 3 July 2006 1 May 2014 Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13 December 2011 1 May 2014 Melanie Gee Non-Executive Director 4 May 2011 1 May 2014 Mary Jo Jacobi Non-Executive Director 1 January 2014 1 May 2014 Sir Jim McDonald Non-Executive Director 1 January 2015 Rick Menell Non-Executive Director 1 April 2009 1 May 2014 John Mogford Non-Executive Director 1 June 2008 1 May 2014 Jon Stanton Finance Director 19 April 2010 1 May 2014 Biographical information on the Board of Directors, including their relevant experience and significant appointments, can be found on pages 70 and 71.
Their relevant skills and experiences are further detailed in the Board composition section below.
Sir Jim McDonald was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2015.
Lord Robertson resigned as Senior Independent Director and as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 January 2015.
Lord Robertson was succeeded by Rick Menell as Senior Independent Director.
The role and responsibilities of the Board The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long term success of the Company for its shareholders.
The Board provides leadership of the Company and sets the Groups strategic aims.
It ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic priorities and provides guidance to senior management.
In determining the long term strategy and objectives of the Group, the Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The Board reviews management and financial performance and monitors the delivery of strategy and the achievement of business objectives.
At all times, it works within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management.
The Board both develops and promotes the collective vision of the Groups purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Board composition During the period, the Board has comprised two Executive Directors, the Chairman and six Non-Executive Directors.
During January 2015, the number of Non-Executive Directors rose to seven on the appointment of Sir Jim McDonald before returning to six following the resignation of Lord Robertson.
There is a Company Secretary to the Board.
More information on their respective positions and the division of their responsibilities is outlined below.
Chairman and Chief Executive Charles Berry was appointed Chairman of the Board on 1 January 2014.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring conditions that allow for the effectiveness of individual Directors and the Board as a whole.
The Chairmans additional commitments are summarised on page 70 and he will step down as chairman of Drax Group plc at its AGM in April 2015.
The independent Board evaluation carried out for 2014 confirmed that the Chairman is widely respected for his inclusive and highly professional approach to conducting meetings and overseeing the business of the Board generally.
His leadership demonstrates the values and behaviours at the core of the Group.
74 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Chairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for the Boards meetings and ensures that there is sufficient time available for the discussion of all items, in particular strategic issues, whilst giving the appropriate weighting of time to their relative importance.
Keith Cochrane is the Chief Executive and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company.
He provides leadership to the Group to successfully plan and execute the objectives and strategy agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the Group Executive and various management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with each having clearly defined duties and responsibilities.
Following Charles Berrys appointment as Chairman in January 2014, the division of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive was reviewed and adopted by the Board in February 2014.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations and assist in the development of the Companys strategy.
In addition, they are responsible for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed goals and objectives.
Their views are essential in overseeing the performance of the Company and ensuring the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk management processes.
In order to carry out these functions appropriately, the Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management and make periodic site visits.
Senior managers are also regularly invited to Board meetings to make business presentations to the Board.
As encouraged by the Code, the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman also met during the year in February 2014 without Executive Directors present.
Senior Independent Director Rick Menell is the Senior Independent Director of the Company.
He replaced Lord Robertson, who had held the role during 2014, following his resignation from the Board with effect from 31 January 2015.
The Senior Independent Director works alongside the Chairman and is available to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He is also available to shareholders if direct contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve the concerns of shareholders or for which such contact is inappropriate.
As Senior Independent Director, he also leads the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Company Secretary Keith Ruddock was appointed as Company Secretary in May 2012.
He is secretary to the Board of Directors and to all of the Board Committees.
He is also Group General Counsel and a member of the Group Executive and his biography is set out on page 69.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on any changes in legislation, governance codes or regulatory requirements.
He reports to the Chairman on corporate governance matters and oversees, in parallel with the Chairman, the governance procedures of the Board.
The Company Secretary has a responsibility to ensure that these Board procedures are adhered to and periodically reviews them with regards to best practice.
The Company Secretarys additional responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development.
Board meetings The Boards scheduled meetings are held in person or by telepresence videoconferencing.
During 2014, there were eight scheduled meetings.
Five additional meetings were also held in relation to proposals made to Metso Corporation.
In October 2014, the Board meeting was held in Dubai.
This was part of a Board visit to view both the old and new facilities of the Companys operations in Dubai.
More information on this can be found on page 80.
In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue throughout the year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary.
The table below details the attendance at Board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of office for the 52 weeks to 2 January 2015.
Name Attendance Charles Berry 13 of 13 Keith Cochrane 13 of 13 Alan Ferguson 13 of 13 Melanie Gee 13 of 13 Mary Jo Jacobi 13 of 13 1 Rick Menell 12 of 13 John Mogford 13 of 13 Lord Robertson 13 of 13 Jon Stanton 13 of 13 1.
Rick Menell was unable to attend one of the Board meetings convened at short notice in connection with the Companys approach to Metso Corporation, as he was travelling on a flight at the relevant time.
There were no Board meetings held between the date of Sir Jim McDonalds appointment to the Board on 1 January 2015 and 2 January 2015.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 75 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership continued Board meetings continued During the year, the Chairman, supported by the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling 12 month agenda for Board and Committee meetings.
At each meeting, the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive and other members of the Group Executive, including information on safety, strategy, human resources, finance and legal.
The Board also receives periodic updates from the Committee Chairmen, who in particular report to the Board on Committee meetings.
Other standing items include reviewing the risk register and internal controls, strategy and succession planning.
The Boards time during 2014 can be grouped into six key areas as outlined below.
A portion of their time is also spent on administrative matters.
Strategy Risk Governance Finance Stakeholder Safety engagement Setting strategy Risk Appetite Legal updates and Oversight of the EHS Standards targets.
new disclosure preparation and and Management AGM and other requirements.
shareholder Reviewing Groups risk and the financial feedback.
potential mergers internal control External Board EHS Audit statements.
meetings and Products and Crisis Succession roadshows.
Oversight of remuneration consultation process.
Board activities during 2014 The Board receives presentations by members of the Weir Group senior management team and external advisors as required.
The annual timetable is discussed in May of the preceding year and circulated as soon as it is finalised, which ensures that the Chairman can be comfortable that each Director is able to devote the time and resources required to act as a Director during that period.
The system for establishing agenda items means both the Chairman and the Board have the confidence that all required items are included at the most appropriate time of the year and there is sufficient time allocated for discussion by the Board, allowing the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
Board and Group Executive meeting locations for 2009-2014 Board Group Executive 76 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Matters Reserved for Approval by the Board The Board recognises that to ensure the long term success of the Company, certain specific matters should be reserved for the consideration and decision of the Board alone.
Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its committees or executive management.
Decisions specifically reserved for approval by the Board are formally recorded in a document entitled Matters Reserved for Approval by the Board, and include: annual and interim accounts and financial statements: dividend policy: Board appointments: Group strategy and the annual operating budget: changes relating to the Groups capital structure: changes to the Groups management and control structure: major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: treasury policies: risk management strategy: Group corporate governance policy: and environmental, health and safety and sustainability policies.
The matters reserved for approval by the Board are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis to ensure they remain appropriate and adhered to.
Board committees Board and committee structure Board Committees Board of Directors General Administration Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Committee Chief Executive Management Committees Group Executive Committee Engineering Finance EHS Value Chain Risk IT Excellence HR Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The principal committees are the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The responsibilities of these Board committees are set out in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Companys website.
The roles and responsibilities of the committees, along with the activities undertaken during the period, are outlined in each of their respective reports found on pages 83 to 108.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the committees in 2014.
In 2015, the Deputy General Counsel will act as secretary to the Audit Committee.
Only committee members are entitled to attend meetings.
However, other Directors may attend at any time, while professional advisors and members of the senior management team may attend when invited to do so.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues.
General Administration Committee The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises any two Directors of the Company, at least one of whom must be an Executive Director.
The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required.
The principal duties of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank and finance facilities and the issue and allotment of shares under Group share plans.
It also attends to other matters of a routine manner relating to the Companys share capital, including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The Committee has written Terms of Reference which are periodically reviewed to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
Minutes of meetings of the General Administration Committee are made available to all Directors.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 77 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership continued Group Executive The Group Executive comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the three Divisional Managing Directors, the Director of Operations, Support & Development, the Director of Strategy & Corporate Affairs and the Director of Human Resources.
Biographical details of the members of the Group Executive can be found on page 69.
The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane.
In the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015, the Group Executive met 12 times.
The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.
The Group Executives role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk, and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Management committees In addition to the committees detailed above at page 77, there exist several management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
These have been created to deal with specific areas and under their clearly defined remits they work across the Group promoting best practice and information sharing.
In 2014, the Manufacturing Excellence Committee a sub-committee of the Value Chain Excellence Committee evolved into the Lean Enterprise Excellence Committee.
This reflects the recognition and need to apply a lean philosophy throughout the value chain following the success of deploying the lean based Weir Production System to the factories throughout the Group.
The Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive are able to delegate their responsibilities to these committees and utilise the areas of expertise contained within them.
The Excellence Committees report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required.
The composition of the various committees along with their accompanying terms of reference, the matters reserved for approval by the Board, and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decisionmaking.
This structure provides the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels, and information flows both up and down reporting lines.
Effectiveness Board skills and attributes Skills and experience Banking Independence & finance Governance International Leadership Engineering Mining Oil and gas Power 1 Charles Berry x x x x x Keith Cochrane x x x Alan Ferguson x x x x x Melanie Gee x x x x Mary Jo Jacobi x x x x x Sir Jim McDonald x x x x x Rick Menell x x x x John Mogford x x x Lord Robertson x x x x Jon Stanton x x Note 1.
Charles Berry was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman in January 2014.
The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective in meeting the needs of the business.
More than half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufficiently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals can dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its committees.
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately.
Each Director devotes sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further back-up papers and information are readily available to all Directors on request to the Company Secretary.
The Chairman ensures that Non-Executive Directors are properly briefed on any issues arising at Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have access to the Chairman at any time.
78 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Appointment and tenure Length of tenure at 2 January 2015 Date of next election Name 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 10 years 11 years or re-election Charles Berry 29 April 2015 Keith Cochrane 29 April 2015 Alan Ferguson 29 April 2015 Melanie Gee 29 April 2015 Mary Jo Jacobi 29 April 2015 Sir Jim McDonald 29 April 2015 Rick Menell 29 April 2015 John Mogford 29 April 2015 Lord Robertson Jon Stanton 29 April 2015 The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one years notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors appointments can be terminated at any time with six months notice.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the required commitment to the Company.
Further details can also be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and good practice, Sir Jim McDonald will resign and offer himself for election at the Companys AGM on 29 April 2015.
All other Directors on the Board at 2 January 2015, with the exception of Lord Robertson who resigned on 31 January 2015, will seek re-election at the Companys AGM in compliance with the Code.
Induction and ongoing training When a new Director joins the Company, he or she is provided with information on the Groups structure, operations, policies and other relevant documentation.
New Directors are able to attend the Groups senior management induction programme which provides an insight into the Groups key processes and controls and includes presentations from the heads of departments located at the Groups Head Office in Glasgow.
Following her appointment as a Non-Executive Director in January 2014, Mary Jo Jacobi attended such an induction in April 2014.
The induction process for Sir Jim McDonald has included introductory meetings with senior executives in the Company and planned visits to the Companys facilities in Todmorden in the UK and Fort Worth in the USA, in addition to a formal briefing on legal and governance matters from the Company Secretary.
Directors are informed of relevant material changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business and their duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required.
In addition, the Board meets once a year or more at one of the Groups operational sites, which includes presentations from key senior employees and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director their training and development needs, and additional induction and training is also available to new committee members as required.
During 2014, the Board received its annual training on competition law at the December Board meeting, which was provided by outside counsel, to coincide with the roll out of the Groups new Competition Law Manual.
Directors and their other interests Under the Companies Act 2006, a director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company.
The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage the disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conflict.
Each Director is aware of the requirement to notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conflict or a material change to an existing authorisation.
Upon receipt of any such notification, the Board, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will consider the situation before deciding whether to approve the perceived conflict.
At the outset of every Board meeting, the Chairman also checks that no new conflicts have arisen.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Director in question will then be notified of the outcome.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that there are appropriate procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interest and that they have operated effectively.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Although Sir Jim McDonald is the Principal and Vice Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde, he has no direct involvement on a day-to-day basis in relation to the Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC which is operated in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.
In particular, he will offer to recuse himself from any discussions in relation to the relationship between the Group and the University of Strathclyde, whether in relation to WARC or otherwise.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 79 Corporate Governance Report continued Effectiveness continued Board evaluation Following the internal effectiveness review undertaken in 2013, the Company Secretary implemented a number of logistical suggestions from Directors in relation to the way in which Board and Committee papers were distributed and to enable the Board to receive market and media information on a more regular basis.
In addition, specific comments received on aspects of the operation of the Nomination and Audit Committees were addressed during the course of the year.
An external review of the Board and its Committees in 2014 was undertaken by Independent Board Review, a division of Independent Audit Limited.
The most recent independent review was carried out by other external consultants in 2011, and Independent Audit Limited had undertaken the previous review of Board effectiveness in 2010.
Otherwise, Independent Audit Limited has no connections with the Company.
Board site visit to Dubai In October 2014, the Board of Directors visited Weirs Oil & Gas Services facilities in Dubai.
The Middle East was chosen for the The current facility which was visited by and Africa EMEA region.
In addition, visit because it is one of the fastest the Board has been in use since 1982.
Paul Coppinger, now Oil & Gas growing areas of the Groups business Due to the expanding requirements of Divisional Managing Director, provided and a key region for the success of the the business, it was determined in 2013 a presentation on the pressure pumping Oil & Gas Division.
that a new, purpose built facility should be business in the Asia Pacific and EMEA created.
The Board also visited this newly regions.
The scheduled Board meeting Given the complexities of the Middle constructed facility and Charles Berry was held later on that day in the new East, it was felt important for the Board to formally opened the site in the presence facility, which included an Oil & Gas gain direct experience of the environment, of WESCO Abu Dhabi joint venture Division strategy review.
and in particular to hear directly from local partner, Mr Faraj Ali Bin Hamoodah, customers and other stakeholders about Mr Samir Al Gharbi, Ms Salma Hareby, The following day, the Board received a the opportunities, issues and challenges CEO of Jebel Ali Free Zone Jafza, presentation on the region from a senior of operating in the region.
and Mr Ibrahim Al Janahi, Deputy CEO representative of Shell in Iraq, and then and COO of Jafza.
The Board undertook met with the joint venture partner for its A reflection of the Groups success in the a tour of the new facility, which is due Saudi Arabian business.
In both cases, Middle East is the construction of a brand to become fully operational in 2015. the presenters provided invaluable insights new facility and regional head office in Dubai.
into the current political, security and The Group has been active in the region for Following the tour, Vikas Handa, the economic environment in the region, many years, and throughout its presence Managing Director of Weir Oil & Gas which was extremely helpful to the Board.
there has recognised that establishing Services Middle East, presented an strong relationships with local partners has overview on strategy for the Oil & Gas made a key contribution to its success.
Division in the Europe, Middle East 80 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 s l o r t n s l o o r c t n e o t c n n e t i s h l m e n i g o t t i r i i v s v i n n r t e c e o l a a v r Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Independent Board Reviews work consisted of a review of the Board papers, confidential interviews with all Directors, along with selected executives and advisors who have significant interaction with the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation considered the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board, its diversity, including gender, how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
The review outcomes were discussed fully with the Chairman and subsequently with the Board at its January 2015 meeting, with all Directors receiving a copy of the full report.
The Board considered Independent Board Reviews findings and their suggestions for improvement, and agreed an action plan to consider and, if agreed, implement these proposed improvements.
The Board considers the review to have been rigorous and fully independent.
As is customary, Rick Menell, as the new Senior Independent Director, oversaw the review of the Chairman.
Overall, the review concluded that the Board was functioning well, with a strong combination of skills and experience being brought by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The report highlighted in particular a desire on the part of the Non-Executive Directors to seek ways in which they can contribute even more to further support the Companys continued growth.
The main aspects of the Boards work which offer scope for further development include reviewing the current meeting cycle and agenda format, in particular with a view potentially to increasing the time spent by the Board on considering wider ranging strategic matters and the balance between monitoring financial outcomes and strategic KPIs.
The review also covered the operations of the Board Committees and, while concluding that they were each operating satisfactorily, also made recommendations for their further improvement which the respective Committees are considering.
In part, the findings of the review in relation to the satisfactory operation of the Nomination and Audit Committees reflected improvements implemented in the course of 2014 in response to areas for further improvement identified in the 2013 Board review.
Further details of the evaluation of the Board Committees are set out below in their respective reports.
Accountability The Audit Committee and auditors Details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, and its members can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 85 to 90.
Information on the Companys external auditors is also contained within this section.
Internal control and risk management In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance to Directors formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through an internal control framework.
This process has been in place throughout 2014, and the process for 2015 has been considered in light of the requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the accompanying Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Controls.
The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during 2014 and more information can be found on risk management on pages 24 to 31.
Our internal control framework has four key layers: Risks Functional and front line controls This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and policies: a comprehensive financial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting: regular performance appraisals and training for employees: restricted access to financial systems and data: delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key transactions: protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm: IT and data security controls: business continuity planning: and assessment procedures for potential new recruits.
Monitoring and oversight controls There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated.
There are monitoring controls at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address underperforming areas.
A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum.
The scorecard assesses compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis.
Significant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis, allowing appropriate action to be taken.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 81 u e o r c t l f n u d c a d r n d u n s a a l s n a A g c i n a h i t E r l o a t i n n o o M i t c n u F Corporate Governance Report continued Accountability continued Internal control and risk management continued Assurance activities We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate protection from risk and are operating as we would expect.
Following the Board and Committee structure set out on page 77, various internal and external sources of assurance report to the Board and management.
These are principally external audit, internal audit, EHS audits, intellectual property audits, engineering audits, procurement audits, IT audits, and production system lean audits.
The legal function introduced a legal audit programme in 2014.
The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need.
Issues and recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
Ethical and cultural environment We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner.
This is supported by the Weir values which are the core behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives.
The Weir Code of Conduct, updated and reissued during the year, also contributes to our culture, providing a high benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted.
Any examples of unethical behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.
The Ethics section within the Sustainability Review on page 66 provides more details on the Groups activities to promote ethical behaviour.
The Groups internal control procedures described on page 89 of the Audit Committee Report do not cover joint venture interests.
We have Board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted.
Remuneration Details of the Companys Remuneration Committee, including its roles, responsibilities and members are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 91 to 108.
The Remuneration Report also details the Companys approved remuneration policy table and the remuneration received by Directors in 2014.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Companys investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual investors.
Through this programme, the Company has directly engaged with 478 investors in 2014 either face-to-face or via telephone or video-conferencing.
Other areas where the Company engages with shareholders include attendance at investor conferences held by the financial community and roadshows and Investor Relations events held by the Company, of which there were 23 during the year held in Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, The Netherlands, Sweden, the UK, Singapore and the USA.
The Company holds an annual capital markets day, which in 2014 was held in London in June.
This event allows shareholders to meet the broader management team and to gain a more in-depth understanding of one business or one aspect of the business.
The capital markets day this year focused on progress in our Power & Industrial Division and initiatives relating to procurement and supplier development.
During the period under review, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
Our brokers and public relation advisors undertake investor roadshow feedback which is shared with the Board, and the Group appointed Goldman Sachs International in September 2014 as its joint brokers, alongside UBS.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders.
The primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders are the Weir Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report.
Both are available on the Companys website and the Annual Report is posted out to all shareholders who elect to receive it.
Copies are available upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Board recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and a Group website is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders.
As well as the Interim and Annual Report, the website contains information on the business of the Company and corporate governance, all Group press releases and Company news, key dates in the financial calendar and other important shareholder information.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can also be found on the website.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their questions about the Group and its business.
The 2015 AGM is to be held on Wednesday 29 April 2015 at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Glasgow.
Together with the rest of the Board, the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions relevant to the work of the Board and the Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantive issue at the AGM.
Details on proxy voting will be contained in the proxy form and the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders and the Chairman will also advise shareholders at the meeting.
Electronic proxy voting is available and details of this are also included in the Notice of Meeting.
82 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
