OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS KEY RELATIONSHIPS The Group recognises that it cannot run its business in isolation.
The business model is underpinned by a series of relationships with stakeholders at local, national and international level, which contribute to its long-term success.
A significant proportion of the Groups CUSTOMERS copper cathode sales are made under annual Most copper and molybdenum sales are contracts, priced in line with LME prices.
made under annual contracts or longer-term In copper cathode transactions, a premium The Group may develop framework agreements, with sales volumes or in some cases a discount on the LME long-term partnerships with agreed for the coming year.
price is negotiated to reflect differences in some suppliers, while others quality, logistics and financing compared The majority of sales are to industrial with the metal exchanges standard copper customers who refine or further process are managed with a more contract specifications.
the copper smelters in the case of short-term focus based on copper concentrate production and copper Similarly, the Groups molybdenum contracts fabricators in the case of cathode production.
are made under long-term framework The Groups in-house marketing team agreements, with pricing usually based seeks to build long-term relationships with onPlatts average prices.
these core customers, while maintaining Across the industry neither copper producers relationships with trading companies that nor consumers tend to make annual participate in shorter-term sales.
commitments for 100% of their respective Approximately 75% of Group sales go to production or needs.
Therefore producers customers located in Asia.
Metals sales normally retain a portion to be sold on the pricing is generally basedonprevailing spot market throughout the year.
The prices realised by the Group during a specific period will differ from the STRUCTURE OF THE GROUPS average market price for that period.
This is SALES CONTRACTS because, in line with industry practice, sales agreements generally provide for provisional The Groups sales contracts typically set pricing at the time of shipment, with final out the annual volumes to be supplied and pricing based on the average market price for the main terms for the sale of each payable the month in which settlement takes place.
metal, with the pricing of the contained copper in line with LME prices.
In the case For copper concentrate, sales remain of concentrate, a deduction is made from open until settlement occurs, on average LME prices to reflect TC RCs the smelting three to four months from the shipment and refining costs necessary to process date.
Settlement for the gold and silver the concentrate into copper cathodes.
content in copper concentrate sales occurs These TC RCs are typically determined approximately one month from shipment.
annually and in line with terms negotiated Copper cathode sales remain open for across the concentrate market.
an average of one month from shipment.
Settlement for copper in concentrate sales is later than for copper cathode sales since further refinement of copper in concentrate is needed before sale.
Molybdenum sales generally remain open for two or three months from shipment.
Antofagasta plc | 25 KEY RELATIONSHIPS SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES CONTRACTORS Suppliers play a critical role in the Groups The Group employs approximately 6,500 The number of contractors working for ability to operate, supplying a large range of people, who work alongside approximately Antofagasta varies according to business products and services from sulphuric acid to 20,000 contractors at its corporate offices, needs and the level of construction activity.
Mining is inherently As at 31 December 2014, there were risky.
Ensuring the health and safety of every More information on key inputs is included approximately 20,000 contractors working onpages22to 24 worker is an absolute priority: it is an ethical at the Groups operations and projects.
obligation and forms the core of the Groups The Group currently conducts business This was some 5,000 higher than the same strategic objectives.
This number time last year, principally due to the Antucoya will be notably reduced by the corporate Skilled workers remain in short supply construction.
Contractors are vitally important supply departments strategy, covering all throughout the mining sector in Chile, and the to mining operations and the Group aims to product and service categories.
The Group Groups efforts and initiatives over the last build long-term relationships with contractor has identified 300 categories across all few years to secure and develop talent and companies based on the highest standards.
mining operations and is negotiating with bring young professionals into the industry Health and safety targets are included in its suppliers on each of these.
This strategic have been notably successful.
performance contracts and compliance with approach will allow the Group to extract safety, human rights and labour regulations Relationships with trade unions are based on greater benefits from its suppliers over a isassessed by internal and external audits.
This helps long period of time.
For example, the Group the Group retain workers and avoid labour The minimum wage paid by Antofagasta may develop long-term partnerships with disputes, contributing to the productivity and Minerals to contractor employees is 70% some suppliers, while others are managed efficiency of its business.
During the year higher than that required by Chilean law, and with a more short-term focus based on the Group renewed the labour agreements contractor staff have access to the same market competition.
The Group has an at all of its mining operations for periods of facilities as the Groups own employees at open-door policy that encourages suppliers up to four years, ensuring a further period the mine camps.
to raise any issues or concerns.
audited regularly to ensure compliance with the law and company standards, The Group undertakes an annual survey particularly concerning health and safety toassess employee satisfaction.
Based onthe results, action is taken toimprove the work environment.
Skilled workers remain in short supply throughout the mining sector in Chile, and the Groups efforts and initiatives over the last few years to secure and develop talent and bring young professionals into the industry have been notably successful.
26 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS LOCAL COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC AUTHORITIES It is crucial to have strong relationships built on trust with local communities in the areas Political developments and changes It is crucial to have strong where the Group operates: it is not possible to legislation or regulations can affect relationships built on trust to run a mine successfully without their business, whether in Chile, the UK, or other co-operation and agreement.
countries where the Group has operations, with local communities in development projects or exploration activities.
Having clear social policies and regular the areas where the Group contact with community members helps New and proposed legislation is monitored operates: it is not possible to manage potential conflicts and maintains to enable the Group to anticipate, mitigate the Groups social licence to operate.
to run a mine successfully or reduce possible impacts, and to ensure During 2014, Los Pelambres adopted a new it complies with all legal and regulatory without their co-operation approach to engagement with communities.
The Group works with industry and agreement.
The initiative is called Somos Choapas bodies to engage with governments on public We are from Choapa, the region in which policy, laws, regulations and procedures that Los Pelambres is located.
may affect its business, including such issues as climate change and energy security.
More information on this is provided on page 57 The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including OTHER LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS the nature of foreign investment agreements Positive relationships with all local already in place.
It also monitors political, legal 1:3 stakeholders near the Groups operations and regulatory developments affecting its and projects are fundamental to the operations and projects, and utilises internal The ratio of employees to contractors smooth operation of the business and its across the Group.
and external legal expertise to ensure its future growth.
All of the Groups operations appoint a manager to oversee relationships with external stakeholders such as the local authorities, local media and others.
