Governance | Corporate governance report Introduction Statement of compliance The following sections explain how the Company applies The Code sets out the principles and provisions relating to the main provisions set out in the 2012 UK Corporate good governance of UK listed companies.
We are pleased Governance Code, the Code issued by the Financial to confirm, that for the year under review, the Group has Reporting Council FRC, as required by the Listing Rules complied fully with the principles and provisions of the Code.
of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and meets the Further information on the Code can be found on the relevant information provisions of the Disclosure and FRCs website at www.
uk Transparency Rules of the FCA.
The Boards role The statement of corporate governance covers the following The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the areas: overall direction and control of the Group and has the powers The structure and role of the Board and its committees: and duties set out in the relevant laws of England and Wales Relations with the Companys shareholders and the Annual and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board General Meeting AGM : and delegates certain matters to the Board committees and The reports of the Audit Committee and Nomination delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved Committee including Board effectiveness and evaluation.
by the Board and the day to day operational aspects of the business to the executive directors.
The Boards main The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out separately responsibilities and the key actions carried out during the in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 52. year are set out below: The Groups risk management and internal control framework and the principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 17 and 34 to 35.
The Directors Report on pages 37 to 39 also contains information required to be included in this Statement of corporate governance.
Responsibility Specific actions during the year Strategy and Annual strategy meeting Presentation on Agency Attendance at Board Approval of the Groups direction to review and agree the customer proposition meeting by CEO of large budget for 2015 and its Groups strategy: including Agency customer, who three year business plan an external consultants presented on Agency to 2017 view on Rightmoves operational considerations strategic direction and the UK housing market outlook Performance Received regular market Marketing presentation on Received presentations Regular updates on monitoring updates and reports about find your happy campaign from senior management business performance competitor activity including particular focus covering progress of relative to analyst on London market businesses other than UK consensus forecasts residential home advertising Shareholder Reviewed the 2014 AGM Received monthly reports Feedback from the Presentation by UBS on engagement proxy voting figures and on shareholder composition executive directors post their view of the equity made preparations in and significant changes to results and investor market and Rightmove respect of the 2014 AGM the shareholder register roadshows peer comparison Governance Regular reviews of the Reviewing and approving Received briefings and Discussion of key findings and risk risk register and changes the Groups regulatory presentations from senior from the 2014 internal in significant risks affecting results announcements management covering a Board evaluation the business and Annual Report wide range of topics including cyber and security risks and 2015 insurance renewal programme 26 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibility Specific actions during the year People and values September Board meeting Met with the Head of Approval of the introduction held in Milton Keynes Human Resources who of the Rightmove Share providing the opportunity updated the Board on Incentive Plan to interact informally with a the Rightmove values number of employees and and behaviours, known to hear a number of short collectively as the Hows presentations from across as well as the introduction the business of a new feedback system encompassing the Hows The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters Board committees requiring specific approval.
The Board has established three principal committees, These include: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and The approval of the annual business plan: the Nomination Committee, to assist it in the execution of its Review of Group strategy: duties.
The chairman of each committee provides a report Changes to the Groups capital structure: or update of each meeting of the respective committee to Approval of the dividend policy: the Board at the subsequent Board meeting.
Acquisitions and disposals: The Committees terms of reference are available on the Appointment and removal of officers of the Company: Companys corporate website, plc.
co. uk or by Approval of annual and half-year results and shareholder request from the Company Secretary.
communications: and Each of the Committees is authorised, at the Companys System of internal control and risk management.
expense, to obtain legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
No person other than a Committee The Board normally schedules seven or eight meetings each member is entitled to attend the meetings of these year although meetings can be scheduled at short notice Committees, except by invitation of the Chairman of that at the request of any director, if required.
In addition to formal Committee.
Board meetings, there is regular informal dialogue between Current membership of the Committees is shown on all directors.
The composition of these Committees is reviewed The Board receives meeting papers sufficiently in advance regularly, taking into consideration the recommendations of of the meetings to allow time for review and consideration of the Nomination Committee refer page 28 for further planned the documents beforehand.
If any director has a concern changes in 2015. about any aspect of the business conducted at any Board meeting, the Company Secretary shall discuss this with the director concerned and record their concern or comments in the Board minutes.
The Board receives monthly management and financial reports on the operational and financial performance of the business setting out actual and forecast financial performance against approved budgets in addition to other key performance indicators.
The Board also receives copies of broker reports and press releases relating to the Group.
Rightmove plc annual report 2014 27 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Membership Minimum number required under the of meetings Committee report Committee Role and terms of reference terms of reference per year on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on At least three Three 32-35 the Groups financial reporting, internal members control and risk management systems, the independence and effectiveness of All members should the auditors and monitors the need for be independent an internal audit function.
non-executive Makes recommendations to the directors Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders of the Company in relation to the appointment of the external auditors Remuneration Responsible for setting and At least three Two 41-42: recommending to the Board the members 52-66 remuneration policy and strategy to ensure that the Companys executive All members should directors and senior management are be independent properly incentivised and fairly rewarded non-executive for their individual contributions to the directors Groups overall performance, having due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Group Nomination Undertakes an annual review of At least three Two 35 organisation and succession planning members and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the The majority should balance of skills, remains appropriate.
be independent Makes recommendations for the non-executive membership of the Board, Audit and directors Remuneration Committees Board composition Board changes The Board at the date of this report comprises three executive Peter Williams was appointed to the Board on 3 February directors and seven non-executive directors, including the 2014 and Rakhi Parekh was appointed to the Board on Chairman.
The three executive directors are Nick McKittrick, 28 July 2014.
All other directors served throughout the year.
Chief Executive Officer, Peter Brooks-Johnson, Chief In addition to the above effective changes, Jonathan Operating Officer and Robyn Perriss, Finance Director.
Agnew, Senior Independent Director and Judy Vezmar, both The non-executive directors are Scott Forbes, Chairman, who will have served nine years, will not stand for re-election Jonathan Agnew, Senior Independent Director, Colin Kemp, to the Board at the AGM of the Company to be held on Ashley Martin, Judy Vezmar, Peter Williams and Rakhi Parekh.
Biographical details of all directors at the date of this report appear on pages 24 to 25 and details of their committee membership appear on page 30.
Consideration of the Board size and composition is kept under regular review by the Nomination Committee.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Division of responsibilities The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and there are clear written guidelines to support their division of responsibilities.
The key responsibilities of the Board members are summarised below: Chairman The leadership and governance of the Board: Ensuring its effectiveness by creating and managing constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors: Ensures there is ongoing and effective communication between the Board and its key shareholders: and With the assistance of the Company Secretary, setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussions and that the Board receives sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear information.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the day to day management of the Group: Responsible for the operations and results of the Group: Developing the Groups objectives and strategy and following Board approval, the successful execution of strategy: Responsible for the effective and ongoing communication with shareholders: and Chairing the Executive Committee.
Non-executive directors Constructively challenge the executive directors: and Monitor the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
The non-executive directors bring wide and varied commercial experience and independent judgement to the Board and the Committees deliberations.
The breadth of management, financial and listed company experience of the non-executive directors is described in the biographical details on pages 24 and 25 and demonstrates a range of business expertise that provides the right mix of skills and experience given the size of the Group.
Senior Independent Director Acting in an advisory capacity to the Chairman: Deputising for the Chairman if required: Serving as an intermediary for other directors when necessary: Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or other executive directors for which such contact is inappropriate: and Conducting an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
Company Secretary Monitoring compliance with appropriate Board procedures: Advising the Board on corporate governance matters: Assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all the directors have full and timely access to relevant information: and Assisting the Chairman by organising induction and training programmes.
In addition to her duties as Company Secretary to the Board, the Company Secretary also acts as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
Rightmove plc annual report 2014 29 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Board diversity Re-election to the Board We are committed to a Board comprised of directors from Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance different backgrounds, diverse and relevant experience, with the Articles of Association of the Company and the perspectives, skills and knowledge.
We believe that diversity, provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
All directors are including gender diversity, amongst directors contributes subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment towards a high performing and effective Board.
We strive to and to re-election at intervals of no more than three years in maintain the optimal balance.
accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
We have made further progress in terms of gender diversity, However, following changes to the Code, all directors, other with 28% 2013: 14% of women now filling senior management than Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar who are retiring, will positions across the Group.
As at 31 December 2014, 30% seek re-election at the 2015 AGM, in accordance with the 2013: 25% of Board members were female and the Board was Code provision B.
7.1. therefore aligned with the minimum target representation level to be achieved by 2015, as recommended by the Davies Review.
Board and Committee membership and attendance The membership of the Committees of the Board and Board independence attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the year The Code provides that the Board should identify in the under review are set out in the table below: Annual Report each non-executive director that it considers to be independent.
That is, to determine whether the director is Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, Total meetings 9 4 5 4 or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
2 Scott Forbes 9 4 N A 4 The Board reviews non-executive director independence Nick McKittrick 9 N A N A N A on an annual basis taking into account such factors as their Peter Brooks- 9 N A N A N A contribution to unbiased and independent debate during Johnson meetings.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate Robyn Perriss 9 N A N A N A balance between the executive 33% and non-executive directors 67% and that all non-executive directors are fully Jonathan Agnew 9 4 5 4 independent of management and independent in character Colin Kemp 9 4 N A 4 and judgement.
6 Ashley Martin 9 4 5 1 To safeguard their independence, a director is not entitled to vote on any matter in which they may be conflicted or have Judy Vezmar 9 4 5 4 a personal interest.
Where necessary, directors are required to 3 5 5 Peter Williams 8 1 3 1 absent themselves from a meeting of the Board while such 1 4 4 4 Rakhi Parekh 3 2 1 2 matters are being discussed.
In cases of doubt, the Chairman 1 Rakhi Par ekh was appointed to the Board on 28 July 2014 and has of the Board is responsible for determining whether a conflict attended all Board meetings post her appointment.
2 The Remuneration Committee Chairman has r equested that the Neither the Chairman nor the executive directors hold any Chairman of the Board attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
3 Peter W illiams was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in other non-executive directorships or commitments requiring November 2014 and has attended all meetings post his appointment.
4 Rakhi Par ekh was invited to attend two Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings and one Audit Committee meeting on a guest basis.
5 Peter W illiams attended three Audit Committee meetings and one Board tenure as at Balance of directors as at Nomination Committee meeting on a guest basis.
31 December 2014 31 December 2014 6 Ashley Martin was invited to attend one Nomination Committee meeting on a guest basis.
3 3 5 6 1 2 0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years Executive Chairman Nondirectors executive directors 30 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Any directors absence from Board meetings or meetings of Annual General Meeting the Remuneration, Audit or Nomination Committees was The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain previously agreed with the Chairman, the Chief Executive aspects of the Companys business, and to ask questions Officer or the Chairman of the relevant committee.
of the directors, who will also be available for discussions In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts with shareholders prior to and after the meeting.
The AGM meetings with the non-executive directors without the will be held on 7 May 2015 at the offices of UBS Limited at executive directors being present when required.
Agnew, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and of the Board at which the performance of the Chairman was related papers to be available on the Companys corporate also reviewed without the presence of the Chairman.
co. uk or posted to shareholders where requested so as to allow at least 20 working days for Indemnification of directors consideration before the AGM.
The Articles of Association of the Company allow for a The Company also complies with the Code with the qualifying third party indemnity provision between the separation of all resolutions put to the vote of shareholders.
Company and its directors and officers, which remains in The Company proactively encourages shareholders to vote force at the date of this report.
The Group has also arranged at general meetings by providing electronic voting for directors and officers insurance cover in respect of legal shareholders who hold their shares through the Crest system action against the directors.
Neither our indemnity nor the and provides personalised proxy cards to ensure that all votes insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven are clearly identifiable.
The Company presently takes votes to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
at general meetings on a show of hands on the grounds of The Group has written policies in compliance with an practicality due to the limited number of shareholders in internal code of securities dealings in relation to the process attendance.
Votes are taken by a poll at any shareholder and timing for dealing in shares, which is equivalent to the meeting where legally required.
All proxy votes are counted Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
The Code applies and the level of proxy votes including abstentions lodged to all directors, other persons discharging managerial for each resolution are reported after each resolution and responsibility and other relevant employees.
published on the Companys website.
Shareholder relations The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company and welcomes the opportunities to engage with shareholders.
Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the Company has conducted regular dialogue with institutional shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional investors and research firms to discuss strategy, operating performance and financial performance.
Contact in the UK is principally with the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
The Chairman attends certain investor meetings in the UK and typically participates in the USA investor meetings.
The Senior Independent Director, is also available to shareholders if they wish to supplement their communication, or if contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the Company through reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director, as well as reports from the Companys joint brokers, UBS and Numis.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups activities through the half year results statement and Annual Report and the investor relations section of its website, at plc.
co. uk, which provides details of all the directors, latest news including financial results, investor presentations and Stock Exchange announcements.
Rightmove plc annual report 2014 31 Governance | Corporate governance report continued This report provides an overview of the work of the Committee Audit Committee report and details how it has discharged its duties during the year.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Audit Committee.
Ashley Martin Chairman of the Audit Committee Ashley Martin Dear shareholder Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee the Committee is an essential part of Rightmoves governance framework to which the Board has Composition and attendance at meetings delegated oversight of the Groups financial reporting, internal Committee members Number of meetings attended controls and compliance and the quality of the external audit process.
The Committee also regularly reviews and considers Ashley Martin Chairman of the Committee 5 out of 5 the requirement for an internal audit function within the Group.
Judy Vezmar 5 out of 5 In addition to our normal activities set out below, the Jonathan Agnew 5 out of 5 Committee has in 2014, focused on business continuity and cyber risk including a review of the Disaster Recovery and The Committee is comprised entirely of independent Business Continuity Plan for our Milton Keynes office, a non-executive directors, the biographical details which discussion of the results of a Cyber Maturity Assessment can be found on pages 24 to 25.
The Board is satisfied that performed by KPMG LLP KPMG and the approval of Ashley Martin has recent and relevant financial skills and updated Information and System Security Policies designed experience necessary to fulfill his role as Chairman of to protect our knowledge and intellectual property.
this work will be extended to include a review of the London The Finance Director and the Head of Finance are office Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan.
normally invited to attend the meetings as well as the external Historically, the Committee has assessed that the need for auditor, KPMG.
Other relevant people from the business an internal audit function would be of limited benefit, given the are also invited to attend certain meetings in order to simplicity of the Group structure, the simple financial model provide a deeper level of insight into certain key issues and strong system of internal controls.
However, in addition to and developments.
During the year Peter Williams and the assurance obtained from management and the external Rakhi Parekh, non-executive directors, attended three auditors, the Committee has increasingly over the past few meetings and one meeting by invitation, respectively.
years obtained extended assurance from work performed by The Committee regularly meets separately with the external external consultants in certain specialist risk areas.
auditors without others being present.
As Rightmove continues to grow and expand the breadth The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two members.
of its service offering, the Committee has recommended to Appointments to the Committee are for a period of up to three the Board that for 2015, it now transitions to an outsourced years, extendable by no more than two additional three year internal audit function to be known as Rightmove Assurance.
periods, so long as members continue to be independent.
The decision to fully outsource has been made on the basis that it will be more cost effective, provide access to a greater Principal activities of the Committee during the year depth of expertise covering a broad range of risks and will The principal activities of the Committee through the year, also be scalable allowing Rightmove to increase resource as and the manner in which it discharged its responsibilities and when required.
were as follows: During November and December 2014 we conducted a tender process for these services, and in December Financial reporting confirmed the appointment of  LLP The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial PwC as the service provider for Rightmove Assurance.
PwC reporting is to review with both management and the external will perform an initial two year cycle of work commencing in auditor the appropriateness of the half year results statement January 2015, focusing on both core financial processes and and the Annual Report and financial statements including, controls and specialist reviews of key risk areas.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The quality and appropriateness of accounting policies of Aon plc.
They also provided an external source of key and practices: inputs used to calculate the initial fair value of new grants, The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with relevant such as volatility, dividend yield and risk free rates.
financial reporting standards and governance reporting Key management assumptions such as leaver provisions requirements: and achievement of performance conditions were reviewed Key accounting issues or matters in which significant and discussed by the Committee.
judgements have been applied: and The assumptions used in calculating the closing Whether the Annual Report and accounts taken as a deferred tax asset were reviewed and the reasons for the whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provide decrease discussed and the financial disclosures reviewed the information necessary for shareholders to assess by the Committee.
the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
As these are both areas of higher audit risk the Committee also received detailed verbal and written reporting from KPMG At the request of the Board, the Committee was asked to on this matter.
consider whether the 2014 Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and Internal audit capable of being understood by shareholders, and has The Group did not have an internal audit function during 2014. concluded that this is the case.
As part of its review of risk management in late 2013, the The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee considered the need for an internal audit function Committee in relation to the 2014 Annual Report and how and concluded that, given the simplicity of the Group these were addressed were: structure, its single country focus, the open and accountable culture with clear authority limits, the straightforward financial Revenue recognition model and strong system of internal controls, that it was The timing of revenue recognition in relation to the billing of not yet appropriate for the business.
During the year the subscription fees and additional products and services and Committee has gained assurance from reports from the accounting for any membership offers to customers with management and the external auditors with regard to internal discounted or free periods.
This was a prime area of audit focus control and risk management, supplemented by extended with KPMG performing detailed analytical procedures using assurance reviews by external consultants in key risk areas.
computer assisted audit techniques throughout the year on This decision has however been kept under regular review, amounts billed to the two largest customer groups Agency and and given the growth in the size and breadth of the business, New Homes, investigating any anomalies and outliers identified as set out in the Chairman of the Committees letter, and providing detailed reporting to the Committee in this regard.
Rightmove will be transitioning to a fully outsourced internal The Committee discussed any reported anomalies audit model for 2015. highlighted by KPMG ensuring that adequate explanations were received from management in line with their business External audit understanding.
KPMG has been the Groups auditors since 2000.
Following In addition the Committee received regular updates from the 2012 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code by management discussing current customer offers and their the Financial Reporting Council, a decision was made by impact on revenue recognition.
the Committee to formally tender the provision of audit and taxation services to the Group.
A comprehensive tender Share-based incentives and the related deferred and review process was concluded in March 2013.
The tax balances Committee was satisfied that the skills and depth of industry It is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee to knowledge in the team remained very strong and combined address, and report upon, compensation matters including with the fresh perspective of the new audit partner decided share-based incentives granted to directors and employees that KPMG should be re-appointed as the Groups auditor.
However, the Committee considers in its review The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner of the financial statements the measurement and accounting responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current treatment relating to such schemes as more fully explained lead partner has been in place for two years.
in Note 24 to the accounts due to the choice of valuation The effectiveness of the external audit process is method and judgement required in calculating inputs used dependent on a number of matters.
These include the quality to calculate fair value under IFRS 2. of processes for recruitment and training of staff within the Schemes subject to external performance conditions audit firm and the degree of rigour applied in the review were valued using the Monte Carlo model by the Companys processes of the work undertaken, together with appropriate remuneration advisors, New Bridge Street, a trading name audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
Rightmove plc annual report 2014 33 Governance | Corporate governance report continued KPMG submitted a detailed audit plan, identifying their achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable assessment of key risks.
For the 2014 financial year the and not absolute assurance against material misstatement primary risks identified were in relation to: or loss.
Revenue recognition due to the value billed and the variety The Groups management have established the of differing contract terms: and procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing Share-based incentives and the related deferred tax process for identifying, evaluating and managing the balances due to the choice of valuation method and inherent significant risks to the Group.
These procedures have management judgement required in these areas.
been in place for the whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date of the approval of The Committee challenged the work undertaken by the external these financial statements and they are reviewed regularly.
auditors to test managements assumptions and estimates During the year, the Committee has overseen around these areas.
The Committee also assessed the a comprehensive review and update of the Disaster Recovery effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters and Business Continuity Plan for the Milton Keynes office.
through the reporting it received from the auditors at both the This included an unannounced disaster recovery test with half year and year end.
In addition the Committee also sought only a small number of follow up actions identified.
feedback from management, without the auditors present, on KPMG performed a Cyber Maturity Assessment review the effectiveness of the external audit process.
For the 2014 comparing Rightmove with what is considered to be best financial year, management were satisfied that there had been practice across a number of comparable listed businesses.
appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit The outcome of this assessment was that the core risk and the Committee concurred with this view.
processes are considered good with some minor The Committee assessed the effectiveness of KPMGs improvements recommended.
overall internal processes to deliver a high quality audit service The Committee has also approved updated Information and concurred that appropriate processes were in place and and System Security Policies, known collectively as being followed.
These have been communicated throughout the business with ongoing initiatives in place to Non-audit services maintain awareness.
The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to safeguard audit objectivity and independence as well as the needs of the The key elements of the system of internal control are: business and agreed that it was practical in certain limited Major commercial, strategic, competitive and financial risks cases for the auditor to be assigned to other non-audit project are formally identified, quantified and assessed, discussed work due to their knowledge and expertise of the business.
with the executive directors, after which they are considered The Committee agreed a policy that management be given by the Board: authority to incur non-audit fees up to 50% of the annual A comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and agreed audit and tax fee in any financial year without the prior monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly approval of the Committee.
In 2014 the non-audit fees were management reporting and monitoring of performance 7,000 in relation to other advisory services and were 11,000 against both budgets and forecasts with explanations in relation to tax compliance and advice and are fully disclosed for all significant variances: in Note 6 of the financial statements.
An organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: Internal controls Clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of investment exist, including appropriate authorisation levels, internal controls and has established a framework of financial with larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals and other controls which is periodically reviewed in requiring Board approval: accordance with the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to A comprehensive disaster recovery plan based upon Directors publication for its effectiveness.
co. uk website across three The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate separate locations, which is regularly tested and reviewed: measures to ensure that the chances of financial irregularities A treasury function which manages cash flow forecasts and occurring are reduced as far as reasonably possible by cash on deposit and counterparty risk and is responsible for improving the quality of information at all levels in the Group, monitoring compliance with banking agreements, where fostering an open environment and ensuring that the financial appropriate: and analysis is rigorously applied.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 34 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Whistleblowing and bribery policies of which all employees Board.
The plan was implemented to ensure that the nonare made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with executive directors range of skills and experience were line management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside the appropriate and relevant to those required by the Group.
plan also considered the timing of appointments to avoid gaps in time when any necessary skills and experience were Through the procedures outlined above, the Board, with temporarily absent.
Korn Ferry International, an executive advice from the Committee, has considered all significant search firm, referenced the Board strategy review and aspects of internal control for the year and up to the date commenced a search for two new non-executive directors of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses during 2013: one with consumer digital experience and the were identified during this review.
However, had there been other with significant plc board and business to consumer any such failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that experience with a preference for candidates that would necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
continue to support the Groups diversity policy.
Peter Williams and Rakhi Parekh were appointed to the Going concern Board in February 2014 and July 2014, respectively.
Their The Board is required under the Code to consider whether or collective skills and experience reflect the requirements not it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in identified in the Board strategy review and agreed by the preparing the Group and the Company financial statements.
As consistent with the Board refreshment plan, the As part of its normal business practice the Group prepares Board size temporarily increased from eight to ten directors in annual and longer term financial plans.
In addition, a going 2014 to ensure a seamless transition.
The Board will reduce concern paper was prepared and presented to the Committee to eight directors after the 2015 AGM as Jonathan Agnew and in February 2015 prior to it recommending the approval of the Judy Vezmar will not stand for re-election following the financial statements and notes to the accounts for the year completion of their third term of service to the Board.
ended 31 December 2014 to the Board.
We have also taken the opportunity to review the After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable composition of the Board committees with Peter Williams expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate being appointed to the Remuneration Committee in cash resources and banking facilities to continue in operational November 2014, in advance of his appointment as Chairman existence for the foreseeable future.
During the year 103.4m of the Remuneration Committee, following Jonathan Agnews of cash was returned to shareholders.
Accordingly, the Board retirement from the Board after the 2015 AGM.
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the The Board has accepted the Committees Annual Report and financial statements.
Further information is recommendation to make the following changes to the provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
composition of the Board committees immediately effective following the 2015 AGM: Nomination Committee report In addition to his appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Peter Williams will succeed Jonathan Agnew as Senior Independent Director: Peter Williams will also be appointed to both the Audit and Nomination Committees: Rakhi Parekh will be appointed to the Remuneration and Audit Committees: and Ashley Martin will be appointed to the Nomination Committee and step down from the Remuneration Committee.
Scott Forbes I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about Chairman of the Nomination Committee the work of the Nomination Committee.
Dear shareholder In 2014 the Nomination Committees the Committees focus has been on organisation and succession planning, in Scott Forbes response to the fact that three of our non-executive directors Chairman of the Nomination Committee were in their third term of service to the Board.
Following an externally facilitated Board strategy review and evaluation conducted in 2012, a Board refreshment plan was recommended by the Committee and agreed by the Rightmove plc annual report 2014 35 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Composition and attendance at meetings Board induction and training All new non-executive directors joining the Board undertake a Committee members Number of meetings attended tailored induction programme to meet their individual needs.
Scott Forbes 4 out of 4 This covers for example: the operation and activities of the Chairman of the Group including meeting with members of the senior Nomination Committee management team, spending a day on the road with a sales Jonathan Agnew 4 out of 4 director meeting our customers and attendance at an Agency Judy Vezmar 4 out of 4 seminar, the role of the Board and the decision making matters reserved to it, the responsibilities of the Board Colin Kemp 4 out of 4 committees: and the strategic challenges and opportunities facing the Group.
Membership There are procedures in place for individual Board The Committee is comprised entirely of non-executive members to receive training and to seek the advice and directors, the biographical details which can be found on services of independent professional advisers, at the Groups pages 24 to 25.
As at 31 December 2014 three out of the four expense, where specific expertise or training is required in members of the Committee were considered by the Board to furtherance of their duties.
The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two members.
Board effectiveness and evaluation At the request of the Nomination Committee Chairman, The Board is committed to undertaking annual reviews of its the Chief Executive Officer is normally invited to attend the own performance and also the performance of its committees meeting to discuss the annual organisation and succession and individual directors.
During the year Rakhi Parekh and Peter Williams, nonFor the year under review the Board conducted an internal executive directors, attended two meetings and one meeting evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees by invitation, respectively.
and individual directors led by the Chairman and assisted by The Chairman of the Company may not chair the the Company Secretary.
The results of the evaluation was Nomination Committee in connection with any discussion reviewed and discussed with the Board at its meeting in about the appointment of his successor to the chairmanship December 2014. of the Company.
In these circumstances, the Senior The Board concluded that the Board evaluation demonstrates Independent Director will take the chair.
Appointments are for consistent and valuable contributions from all directors.
a period of up to three years, extendable by no more than two The Board evaluation emphasised a high degree of board additional three year periods, so long as members continue to effectiveness, commitment, good working relationships and a be independent.
strong succession plan as evidence by the approach to replacement of retiring non-executive directors.
No major areas Principal activities of the Committee during 2014 for improvement were highlighted within the 2014 review process.
During the year the Committee has: The Board intends to continue to create additional opportunities Reviewed the Board composition: for informal discussion between Board members outside of Considered the appointment of two new non-executive the formal Board meetings and has arranged an extended offdirectors: site strategic planning meeting as part of the 2015 Reviewed the Board Committees composition: Board calendar.
Approved the plans for the organisation and succession of An externally facilitated review of the performance of the Board the executive directors and senior management: and its committees will again be conducted during 2015.
Agreed the process for and considered the outcome of the Boards annual evaluation: Considered the diversity of the Board and agreed the policy regarding gender composition on the Board: and Conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
