GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN FINANCE DIRECTOR Sir John Parker Ren Mdori GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, Doctorate in Economics DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA 72, joined the Board as a non-executive director on 9 July 57, was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2005, becoming 2009 and became chairman on 1August 2009.
Sir John finance director on 1 September 2005.
Ren is a member is also chairman of the Nomination Committee and is ofthe GMC and chairman of the CorpCo and the Investment a member of the Sustainability Committee.
Sir John is Committee InvestCo.
Ren brings significant financial and recognised as a highly experienced and independent commercial expertise from capital intensive businesses, chairman and brings a wealth of leadership experience supplying products to the oil refining, steel and mining across a range of industries in many countries, including industries and experience in international finance in the UK, in South Africa.
He is a non-executive director of Carnival Corporation He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum and Airbus Group as well as deputy chairman of DP World.
Ren is a former finance Sir John is a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford and director of The BOC Group plc and was a non-executive was the President of the Royal Academy of Engineering director of SSE plc formerly Scottish and Southern from 2011 to 2014.
Sir John was previously chairman of Energyplc.
National Grid plc, senior non-executive director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England, joint chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Mark Cutifani Sir Philip Hampton BE Mining Engineering MA, ACA, MBA 56, was appointed as a director and chief executive with 61, joined the Board on 9 November 2009.
He is chairman effect from 3April 2013, and is chairman of the Group of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Management Committee GMC and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Sir Philip is chairman Corporate Committee CorpCo and the Sustainability of The Royal Bank of Scotland and brings to Anglo American Committee.
Mark has over 38 years experience of the significant financial, strategic and boardroom experience mining industry across a wide range of geographies across a number of industries.
Sir Philip was appointed and commodities.
to the board of GSK as a non-executive director and chair-designate in 2015.
Mark is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum Limited and Chairman of the fide Beers group of His previous appointments include chairman of JSainsbury companies, and the previous CEO of AngloGold Ashanti plc, finance director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, Limited.
Before joining AngloGold Ashanti, Mark was BG Group plc, British Gas plc and British Steel plc, chief operations officer COO at Vale Inco, where he was executive director of Lazards, and non-executive director responsible for Vales global nickel business.
Prior to this he of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
Sir Philip succeeded held senior executive positions with the Normandy Group, David Challen as the senior independent director at the Sons of Gwalia, Western Mining Corporation, Kalgoorlie conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Consolidated Gold Mines and CRA Rio Tinto.
66 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Governance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Judy Dlamini Phuthuma Nhleko MBChB, DOH, MBA, DBL BSc Eng, MBA 55, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2014 and is a 54, joined the Board on 9 March 2011 and is a member of member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Judy the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Phuthuma is also is a successful businesswoman with longstanding public chairman of Pembani Group Pty Limited and Afrisam company board experience across a range of geographies South Africa Pty Limited and a non-executive director of and sectors, including mining.
He is chairman of MTN Group Ltd, having formerly been the President and CEO from 2002 to 2011.
He brings She is the chairman of Aspen Pharmacare and founder broad business experience and previously served as a and chairman of Mbekani Group, a South African healthcare director on a number of boards in South Africa: Nedbank investment company.
Judy served as a non-executive Group: Alexander Forbes: Bidvest: and Old Mutual SA.
director of Northam Platinum between 2004 and 2013, and as a member of that companys committees on: health: Ray ORourke safety and environmental: investment: and social, ethics KBE, HonFREng, CEng, FIEI, FICE and human resources.
She started her career as a medical practitioner and after spending two years at HSBC, she began to develop her entrepreneurial interests.
Judy is also a founder and trustee of Mkhiwa Trust, a family vehicle for social responsibility initiatives, and has served as a non-executive director on the boards of Discovery Holdings 68, joined the Board on 11 December 2009.
He is a member and Woolworths Holdings.
of the Nomination, Remuneration and Sustainability Committees.
Ray has a proven track record in delivering Byron Grote complex and large-scale projects around the world, PhD Quantitative Analysis mobilising large numbers of people with great success and applying leading project management and engineering practices.
As a member of the Sustainability Committee, he has a keen interest in safety.
Ray founded the ORourke Group in 1977, having begun his 66, was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013.
He is career at Kier and J Murphy & Sons.
In 2001, the ORourke chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Group acquired John Laing to form Laing ORourke, now Remuneration Committee.
Byron contributes broad Europes largest privately owned construction company, business, financial and board experience in numerous ofwhich Ray is chairman.
He is a non-executive director of Unilever NV, Unilever plc, Standard Chartered and Akzo Nobel.
Byron has extensive management experience across the oil and gas industry.
He served on the BP plc board from 2000 until 2013 and was BPs chief financial officer during much of that period.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 67 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS continued Mphu Ramatlapeng Anne Stevens MD, MHSc BSc, PhD 62, was appointed to the Board on 8 July 2013 and is a 66, joined the Board on 14 May 2012 and is a member member of the Sustainability Committee.
Mphu is a of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Anne brings a highly experienced leader who brings a broad range of wealth of experience and wide-ranging commercial acumen South African and international health expertise at board from a number of global industries.
She has experience level across both the public and private sectors.
She has a gained across North, Central and South America.
clear vision and deep understanding of the social benefits Anne has served on the board of Lockheed Martin of effective healthcare programmes and capacity building Corporation as a non-executive director since 2002, and is through partnership.
also the chairman of a privately held IT services business, Mphu is the Executive Vice President of HIV AIDS and SAIT.
Annes 16-year career with the Ford Motor Company Tuberculosis programmes for the Clinton Health Access culminated in her appointment as COO for the Americas, a Initiative and also the Vice Chair of the Global Fund to Fight position she held until 2006.
Prior to joining Ford in 1990, AIDS, TB and Malaria.
She served as Minister of Health and Anne spent 10 years in a number of engineering, product Social Welfare of Lesotho between 2007 and 2012.
In this development, and sales and marketing roles at Exxon role, she championed Lesothos significant achievements Chemical Co, and three years as chairman and CEO of in reducing the transmission of HIV from mother to child.
Across her career, she has also been a leading advocate for women in business, including serving as founding board Jack Thompson member of Women in Business in Lesotho.
BSc, PhD Jim Rutherford BSc Econ, MA Econ 64, joined the Board on 16 November 2009, is chairman of the Sustainability Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Jack brings experience gained 55, joined the Board on 4 November 2013.
Jim is a member at all levels of the mining industry and has received wide of the Sustainability and Audit Committees.
He has recognition as a mining executive.
He is currently a extensive experience in investment management and non-executive director of Tidewater Inc. investment banking, both as an institutional investor and Jack was previously chairman and CEO of Homestake analyst.
He brings to the Board considerable financial Mining Co. vice chairman of Barrick Gold Corp. and has insight from the perspective of the capital markets and served on the boards of Centerra Gold Inc. Century a deep strategic understanding of the mining industry.
Aluminum Co. Molycorp Inc. Phelps Dodge Corp.
Between 1997 and 2013, he was a Senior Vice President Rinker Group Ltd. and Stillwater Mining.
of Capital International Investors, a division of the Capital Group, and had responsibility for investments in the David Challen and Sir CK Chow also served on the mining and metals industry with a broad global geographic Board from the beginning of the year until the 2014 AGM.
Prior to joining Capital Group, Jim was an investment analyst covering the South American mining and metals industry for HSBC James Capel in New York.
68 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014
