46 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Governance Governance at ARM Corporate governance framework Last year for the first time we created the International capability was extended in 2014 Annual Report as two documents, and by the appointment of John Liu to the Board The Groups corporate governance framework following positive feedback from shareholders on 1 December 2014.
He is based in China is built around three pillars: and other interested parties in 2014, we and has extensive experience of operating in are continuing this approach.
This Strategic the burgeoning Asia technology sector Organisation, structure and process Report contains an update on ARMs progress We were also very pleased to identify Chris The internal control framework during the year, an outline of our approach Kennedy as our new Chief Financial Officer.
to governance and summary financial results.
Independent assurance He has more than 20 years of international The separate Governance and Financial Report experience in senior financial roles, most Having a well-dened governance framework gives more detail on governance at ARM and recently at easyJet plc where he has served as and operating with integrity in all we do is vital our full accounts.
We welcome any further Chief Financial Officer and a member of the to maintain the trust of investors, customers, feedback and you can contact us via the Board since 2010 our employees and other stakeholders.
The Investor Relations website at www.
Board is keenly aware of its responsibility The Nomination Committee is developing to provide leadership, operate with Directors and succession planning candidate briefs for further searches for transparency and promote ethical behaviour independent non-executive directors with The Board reects a balance between and collaboration throughout the Group.
Patricia Alsop appropriate skills, experience and diversity to technology sector, commercial, financial We seek to nurture a working environment in Company Secretary complement our existing Board members and and general business skills, with a highly which the highest standards of behaviour are maintain, collectively, an effective Board.
experienced international team leading the established, demonstrated and maintained in all business in both executive and non-executive our activities.
The roles and specic expertise of the current ARM is committed to good roles.
There are well-dened differences in members of the Board are set out in the roles between the executive and non-executive corporate governance, Biographies section of the Governance and directors.
Their combined contributions as corporate responsibility and Financial Report.
an experienced and healthily diverse Board add value to the debate, decision making and the highest ethical standards development of strategy that are so crucial to in all we do.
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 47 Diversity of managers Diversity of the Board Diversity of the Group Men 89% Men 78% Men 84% Women 11% Women 22% Women 16% Diversity Biographies of the Executive Committee Corporate responsibility Remuneration appear on the Groups website at The Board currently comprises three executive Full details of our CR strategy and ARMs remuneration policy, which was www.
directors, the Chairman and five independent achievements can be found in the main CR approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual non-executive directors.
At the year-end there Report at www.
com reporting2014 and a General Meeting, seeks to align the interests Ethics and values were seven men 78% and two women 22%, summary of highlights from the year is included of executive directors, senior management which broadly reects the gender diversity All employees are required to act fairly, in the CR section of this Strategic Report.
and shareholders, and is structured to enable of ARMs workforce as a whole.
In terms of honestly and with integrity, and to confirm each the Group to attract, motivate and retain the location, one of the non-executive Board year that they have read and understand the Investor relations talent required to deliver the business strategy.
members is located in the USA, one is based Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, The approved policy is included at the end of The Board makes considerable efforts to inChina and the remainder are in the UK.
a copy of which is published on the corporate the Directors Remuneration Report in the establish and maintain good relationships website at www.
The Group has Governance and Financial Report.
with shareholders and the wider investment Development of strategy signed the Universal Declaration of Human community.
There is regular dialogue with Rights and has adopted a specic Human Rights The Board is cognisant of the general sensitivity The Boards work on dening our shortand institutional investors during the year, except Policy within our Code of Business Conduct relating to executive director remuneration.
long-term strategic priorities at this important during close periods.
The main channel of and Ethics.
This is in addition to our existing We are committed to the principle that stage in the Groups development is receiving communication continues to be through the policies on conict minerals, business ethics, there should be no reward for failure.
A detailed strategy review Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial discrimination and export controls.
We believe that the increased emphasis on was undertaken in September 2014 and the Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
long-term performance-related pay, longer next in-depth strategy meeting is scheduled for The Chairman, the Senior Independent The Groups ethos and culture is also holding periods and increased shareholding April 2015.
This meeting will focus on progress Director and the other directors are available enshrined in ARMs three core beliefs, which requirements are appropriate and ensure since the September meeting and future plans to engage in dialogue with major shareholders were reviewed and refreshed during 2014 and that ARMs remuneration policy does not to take advantage of the opportunities that as appropriate.
Contact details for the investor guide how our people behave and make the encourage inappropriate risk taking.
This was have been identied.
These opportunities are relations team can be found on the inside back decisions that deliver our vision and strategic implemented through the Long Term Incentive in areas that include the Internet of Things, cover of this report.
goals, now and in the future.
The objective is Plan approved by shareholders in 2013 and efficient networking, ARM-powered servers to encourage teamwork, drive innovation and operated for the first time in 2014. and security applications.
creativity, and help everyone within the Group to reach their full potential.
The Executive Committee develops and implements the strategy approved by the Board.
It also ensures that the risks identied through the business planning process, particularly corporate-level risks, are managed and mitigated as far as is possible.
