Governance GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2014 THE BOARD IN 2014 Role of the chairman THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Sir John Parker manages the Board.
His main The Board provides leadership to the Group and is responsibilities include: responsible for its long term success.
It seeks to achieve Board leadership this by establishing the tone from the top, through setting Board composition and succession planning Group strategy and approving business plans, monitoring Governance performance, overseeing risk management and ensuring Advising, providing counsel and acting as confidant the right people are in place via board and executive to the chief executive succession planning.
Ambassador for the Group Available for shareholders The Board is supported by a number of committees, to which it has delegated certain powers.
The role of these Role of the chief executive committees is summarised below, and their membership Mark Cutifani manages the Group.
His main and activities during the year are detailed on pages 7682. responsibilities include: Under the Groups governance arrangements, certain Executive leadership key decisions can only be made by the Board and may not Formulation of Group strategy be delegated.
The schedule of Matters Reserved for the Approval and monitoring of business plans Anglo American plc Board, and the committees terms of Organisational structure and senior appointments reference, detailing the specific responsibilities of the Acquisitions and disposals and business development Board and its committees can be found online.
Shareholder relations For more information, visit Role of the senior independent director SID www.
com aboutus ourapproach Sir Philip Hampton, as the SID, is available to discuss any concerns with shareholders that cannot be addressed through the normal chairman chief executive channels.
He also acts as a sounding board and confidant for the chairman and as an intermediary for other directors, if necessary.
Governance structure The Board Group Management Committee Provides leadership to the Group and is GMC responsible for its long term success.
Audit Committee Corporate Committee Responsible for formulating Oversight of financial reporting, audit, CorpCo strategy, setting targets budgets internal control and risk management.
Reviews corporate policies and managing the Groups and processes, and financial See page 78 for more details.
performance and budgets at For more information see BU level.
GMC Rules on the Groups website.
Nomination Committee Operational Committee Responsible for board composition, OpCo appointment of directors and senior Responsible for driving management and succession planning.
operational best practices across the Group and See page 77 for more details.
the setting of technical standards.
Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Determines the remuneration of InvestCo executive directors, the chairman and Responsible for making senior management and oversees recommendations to the remuneration policy for all employees.
GMC on capital investment proposals.
See page 82 for more details.
Sustainability Committee Oversees management of sustainability issues, including safety, health.
environment, social and governmental relations.
See page 76 for more details.
Board committees Executive committees Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 71 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2014 BOARD COMPOSITION achieved the Davies Report target of 25% women on The Board currently comprises the chairman, two executive the Board, and contains directors from Australia, France, directors and nine independent non-executive directors.
Ireland, Lesotho, South Africa, the UK, and the US, with a Board composition is regularly refreshed, with all the current broad range of professional experience as set out in non-executive directors having been appointed within the the table below.
In terms of diversity, the Company has Board diversity Nationality Australia South Africa France UK Ireland UK US Lesotho US Professional Percentage of experience Board membership Automotive 8% Educational government 17% public entities Energy 17% Engineering construction 33% Finance 33% Medical healthcare 17% Mining 25% Other global multinational 58% Social enterprises 8% Telecoms 17% 72 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Governance BOARD DISCUSSIONS Board and Committee meetings 2014 frequency and attendance of members The chairman has developed and maintains a two-year rolling agenda which sets the framework for Board Independent Board Audit Sustainability Remuneration Nomination meetings and seeks to ensure that each meeting covers an appropriate range of topics from routine business, through Sir John n a 6 6 4 4 2 2 Parker operational reports and project updates, to special items and matters of strategy and business development and that Mark No 6 6 4 4 over the course of a year, the Board covers its whole remit.
Cutifani Each meeting includes a wide-ranging report from Ren No 6 6 the chief executive and a report from the finance director Mdori on the Groups financial performance.
Reports from the committee chairmen, updates on major projects and David Yes 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 certain other administrative matters are also reported Challen at each Board meeting.
Sir CK Yes 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 In addition to these regular items, the following matters Chow were discussed, among others, during 2014: Judy Yes 6 6 3 3 3 3 February Dlamini Annual results and dividend recommendation Byron Yes 6 6 3 3 3 3 Strategic development update Grote Cyber risk Litigation update Sir Philip Yes 6 6 3 3 3 3 2 2 Results of the 2013 Board and Committee evaluation Hampton April 2 2 Phuthuma Yes 5 6 2 3 2 2 Business Report Minas-Rio Nhleko AGM preview 3 Barro Alto capex proposal Ray Yes 6 6 3 4 3 3 2 2 ORourke Various major supply contracts for approval June Mphu Yes 6 6 4 4 Ramatlapeng Business Report Sishen mine fide Beers Gahcho Ku project 4 Jim Yes 6 6 2 2 4 4 Board Strategy sessions two days Rutherford July Anne Yes 6 6 3 3 2 2 Interim results and interim dividend recommendation Stevens Business Report Coal Strategy update Jack Yes 6 6 4 4 3 3 Litigation update Thompson October 1 Meetings attended prior to retirement.
Business Report Platinum including a Board visit 2 Mr Nhleko did not attend the December Board and Committee meetings to avoid a potential conflict of interest.
3 to Mogalakwena mine Mr ORourke was unable to attend one Sustainability Committee meeting due to a diary clash.
Commodity pricing update Sishen heavy mining equipment plan December December Investor Day presentation Budget and Business Plans 20152017 Business Report Base Metals Commodity pricing update and long term outlook Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 73 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2014 BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS During 2014, the entire Board visited the Mogalakwena We recognise the importance of getting out of the platinum mine in South Africa as part of the October boardroom and visiting the Groups operations on the Board meeting, and individual directors made visits to the ground.
Such visits provide directors with opportunities to Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, and the Michiquillay, meet with local employees, kick the tyres and gain insights Quellaveco, Collahuasi and El Soldado copper projects that are simply not available from spreadsheets and mines in South America.
Images The Board visited the Mogalakwena mine in October 2014.
Pictured during the visit clockwise from top left are Judy Dlamini centre, Jim Rutherford left and Sir Philip Hampton, Ray ORourke, and Phuthuma Nhleko.
74 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Governance BOARD EVALUATION INVESTOR RELATIONS In accordance with the Code, we conduct an externally The Company maintains an active engagement with its key facilitated evaluation every three years, with the next financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and being due to take place during the course of 2015. buy and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
Between the externally facilitated reviews, the Board The Investor Relations department manages the interaction undertakes an online, questionnaire based evaluation with these audiences and regular presentations take place of its, and the committees, performance.
This is at the time of interim and final results as well as during the augmented by one-to-one interviews by the chairman rest of the year, including an annual capital markets day.
An active programme of communication with potential shareholders is also maintained.
The evaluation undertaken in late 2013 and reviewed by the Board in February 2014 found that, overall, the Any significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation Board and its committees were performing well.
The to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the areas for improvement included: shorter presentations Board.
The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the and longer discussions and, in terms of strategic Investor Relations department and analysts reports are discussions, more information on industry trends and circulated to the directors.
Feedback from meetings held competitor benchmarking was requested.
That these between executive management, or the Investor Relations suggested improvements are not new underlines the department, and institutional shareholders, is also fact that improving board performance is an iterative, communicated to the Board.
ongoing exercise, which is never entirely complete.
During the year there were regular presentations to, and A further internal evaluation was undertaken in late meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, 2014, the results of which were reviewed by the Board continental Europe, the US and Asia Pacific to communicate inFebruary 2015. the strategy and performance of Anglo American.
Executive directors as well as key executives, including business unit Overall, performance of the Board was highly rated.
heads, host such presentations, which include seminars for However, as one would expect from an engaged board, investors and analysts and one-on-one meetings.
there is the opportunity for further improvements.
At a time of increased volatility in the industry the Board needs to Throughout the year, executive management also presents continue its focus on the management of risks.
It also at industry conferences that are mainly organised by needs to strengthen its links with the Management of the investment banks for their institutional investor base.
Businesses to ensure that the expertise and experience The chairman, the senior independent director and other of Board members is utilised in support of restructuring non-executive directors are available to shareholders to and strategic change.
Suggestions to improve our discuss any matter they wish to raise.
The Companys strategic debates, especially around our Strategy Day, website provides the latest news and historical financial will also be addressed.
information, details about forthcoming events for An action plan incorporating key suggestions for shareholders and analysts, and other information regarding improvements will be debated at our next Board meeting Anglo American.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 75
