GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE Byron Grote Chairman, Audit Committee A key requirement of our financial statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this requirement as appropriate weight has been given to both positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has considered the robust process which operates in creating COMPOSITION the report and accounts, including: Byron Grote Chairman clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors Judy Dlamini revisions to regulatory requirements, including the Sir Philip Hampton Code, are monitored on an ongoingbasis Phuthuma Nhleko Jim Rutherford early-warning meetings are conducted between Anne Stevens business unit management and the auditors in advance of the year end reporting process input is provided by senior management and ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES corporate functions Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim a thorough process of review, evaluation and verification financial statements.
of the inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure Making recommendations to the Board concerning the accuracy and consistency adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
further reviews are conducted by senior management Overseeing the Groups relations with the a review is conducted by external advisors appointed to external auditors.
advise management on best practice with regard to Making recommendations to the Board on creation of the report and accounts the appointment, retention and removal of the a meeting of the Audit Committee is held to review and external auditors.
consider the draft annual report and accounts in advance Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the of the final sign-off Groups internal control and risk management systems.
final sign-off is provided by the Board.
Approving the terms of reference and plans of the internal audit function.
Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness of the internal control system.
Receiving reports from management on the key risks of the Group.
Further details of such risks are provided on pages 4247.
78 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Governance December COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2014 reviewed the significant accounting issues that would The Audit Committee held three meetings in 2014.
The key impact the 2014 financial results issues reviewed included the following: reviewed an update on the outcome of regulatory review February of the statutory audit market reviewed in detail the significant accounting issues, the approved the external audit plan for the 2014 audit and going concern assessment and the press release for the external auditors view on the key audit risks 2013 financial results received a report from management on Treasury reviewed the results of the external audit work matters and plans for 2015 considered the position regarding tendering of the reviewed the risks associated with sale of assets external auditor appointment announced for disposal noted the effective tax rate and developments in mining reviewed the status of an investigation into an taxation alleged fraud conducted in Australia and Chile by a reviewed the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources report former employee reviewed a report on completion of the 2013 internal reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference.
audit plan and discussed the significant findings.
The Audit Committee report is set out below.
July evaluated managements proposed accounting treatment and disclosure relating to various matters including the proposed sale of the Groups stake in the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture reviewed the assumptions underpinning the going concern assessment satisfied itself that the external auditor was in agreement with the accounting treatment and judgement proposed by management on the significant accounting items received a report on the progress of the internal audit plan for 2014 reviewed the risk profile of Anglo American and each of its business units reviewed the governance framework for the Marketing business unit reviewed an analysis of pricing outlooks and comparison.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 79
