GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee has primary responsibility ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OF THE for making recommendations to the Board on the EXTERNAL AUDITORS appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence is external auditors.
consistent with the ethical standards published by the The Audit Committee has the authority to engage Audit Practices Board.
independent counsel and other advisers as they A key factor that may impair auditors independence is a lack determine necessary in order to resolve issues on of control over non-audit services provided by the external auditors independence.
In essence, the external auditors independence is An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditors deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a service that: effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
The results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee effectiveness assessment involves a review with the of the Group senior finance managers in each of the business units and relevant corporate functions.
puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2014 creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the UK the Group.
professional and regulatory requirements for audit lead Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary engagement partner rotation were adhered to and the measures, namely: external auditors independence was not impaired.
disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services The Audit Committee held meetings with the external auditors without the presence of management on two the prohibition of selected services this includes the occasions and the chairman of the Audit Committee held undertaking of internal audit services regular meetings with the audit engagement partner prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of during the year.
non-audit services where the cost of the proposed Consideration given to the appointment of the assignment is likely to exceed $50,000.
external auditors Anglo Americans policy on the provision of non-audit The Audit Committees assessment of the external services is regularly reviewed.
The definition of prohibited auditors performance and independence underpins its non-audit services corresponds with the European recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders Commissions recommendations on auditors the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors until the independence and with the Ethical Standards issued conclusion of the AGM in 2016.
Resolutions to authorise by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
the Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration of Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on Other safeguards 23April2015.
The external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy based on best practice and professional standards Audit Tender in the United Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation of Anglo American recognises the outcome of the reviews of the audit engagement partner is five years and, for any key the statutory audit market undertaken by the EU and the audit partner, seven years.
The audit engagement partner Competition and Markets Authority including the associated was appointed in 2010 and will rotate off at the conclusion transition rules.
Under these arrangements, Anglo American of the 2014 audit in accordance with this requirement.
The will undertake, at the latest, a tender and rotation of the appointment of a replacement engagement partner has audit appointment at the time of the rotation of the lead been approved by the Audit Committee.
engagement partner, which is due after completion of the 2019 audit.
Any partner designated as a key audit partner of AngloAmerican shall not be employed by Anglo American Audit Committee actions in 2015 in a key management position unless a period of at least Priorities for 2015 will include assessment of risks for two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last which the Audit Committee has responsibility, monitoring relevant audit.
significant financial matters and review of new regulatory requirements for audit committees with respect to reporting The external auditors are required to assess periodically, and governance.
whether in their professional judgement, they are independent of the Group.
The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors work is sufficient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
80 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Governance The role of internal audit Whistleblowing programme The Group has an internal audit department that reports The Group has had a whistleblowing programme in place centrally, with responsibility for reviewing and providing for a number of years in all its managed operations.
assurance on the adequacy of the internal control This facility operates in addition to a standardised Groupenvironment across all of Anglo Americans operations.
wide stakeholder complaints and grievance procedure The head of internal audit is responsible for reporting that is operated at all managed operations see the 2014 and following up on the findings of this internal audit work Sustainable Development Report for more details.
The with local management and the Audit Committee on a whistleblowing programme, which is monitored by the Audit regular basis.
Committee, is designed to enable employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a confidential Internal audit teams operated in all of the Groups principal basis, to raise concerns in cases where conduct is deemed divisions in the period under review, reporting findings to to be contrary to our values.
The internal audit functions mandate and annual audit coverage plans have been During 2014, 302 2013: 372 reports were received via approved by the Audit Committee.
the global Speak Up facility covering a broad spectrum of concerns, including: The Audit Committee met independently with the head of internal audit during the year.
ethical Obtaining assurance on the internal criminal control environment supplier relationships The system of internal control, which is embedded in all key operations, provides reasonable rather than absolute health and safety assurance that the Groups business objectives will be HR issues.
achieved within the risk tolerance levels defined by the Board.
Regular management reporting, which provides Reports received were kept strictly confidential and were a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, is an referred to appropriate line managers within the Group for important component of board assurance.
Where necessary, action was taken to address the issues raised.
A governance process is in place to ensure During 2014, Anglo American detected a fraud committed all reports are analysed and acted upon.
by a project director for a development project in Australia involving an override of management controls in procurement and payments to fictitious suppliers.
The project director had performed a similar role in Chile previously and forensic investigation established a similar fraud had been committed in that project.
A separate fraud was identified in the Copper business perpetrated by a key contractor to the Los Bronces mine.
In each case, the losses suffered were not material.
The Company is taking steps to improve its controls to address identified weaknesses.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 81
