Governance Corporate governance statement continued Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee and the work it carried out during 2014.
Key objective The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
Terms of reference of the Committee The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk and on request from the Company Secretary.
Committee meetings No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
Justin Atkinson did not attend a meeting of the Committee where CEO succession was discussed.
Roy A Franklin Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.
During this financial year the Committee met four times.
Nomination Committee Membership: Activities of the Committee Roy Franklin Chairman The main activities of the Committee since the last report were Justin Atkinson as follows: Ruth Cairnie the appointment of Nancy Tuor Moore as a new Non-executive Chris Girling Director in June 2014 Nancy Tuor Moore CEO succession planning, including the creation of a role profile and the Paul Withers appointment of Egon Zehnder as external search consultants to assist with the search in September 2014 oversight of the development and implementation of an executive development programme for the Group.
The search for a new CEO is progressing positively and we will report on the outcome in due course.
Keller and the Committee continue to encourage and welcome interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Boards diversity.
The Boards overriding objective is to continue to provide effective leadership and, therefore, the Committee continues to recommend for appointment only the most appropriate candidates to the Board in line with the criteria set out on page 41.
There are, therefore, no formal targets set for female representation at Board level.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Board will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2014, with the exception of Nancy Tuor Moore who will seek her first election.
In December 2014, the Committee formally reviewed the performance, contribution and commitment of each of the Directors retiring at this years Annual General Meeting and seeking reappointment, and supported and recommended their reappointment to the Board.
The Committee has confirmed that each Director continues to perform well both on an individual and collective basis, making a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations and demonstrating commitment to Kellers long-term interests.
Roy A Franklin Chairman of the Nomination Committee 2 March 2015 44 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Accountability Internal control e Budgeting and forecasting The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is by the Board.
This budget includes monthly profit and loss accounts, balance designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve sheets and cash flows.
In addition, forecasts are prepared for the two business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are regularly updated during assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, f Financial reporting evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which compare profit been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows and other information with the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by budget and prior year, and significant variances are investigated.
the Board and accords with the guidance.
g Cash control The principal elements of the internal control framework are as follows: Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortand medium-term cash positions a Risk identification and evaluation and to control immediate borrowing requirements.
Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and h Investments and capital expenditure operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks may be associated with a All significant investment decisions, including capital expenditure, are variety of internal or external sources including market cycles, acquisitions, referred to the appropriate divisional or Group authority level.
people, technical risks such as engineering and project tendering and management, health and safety risks, control breakdowns, disruptions in i Internal audit information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The Group has a structured programme of independent, outsourced audit The identified risks, and the controls in place to manage them, are subject reviews, covering tendering, operational processes and internal financial to continual reassessment.
The intention is to conduct an internal audit of all material business units at least once every four years.
This programme has been carried out On an annual basis, the significant risks across all principal business units and by  since 2010.
The programme is approved and divisions are collated and discussed in detail with each management team.
monitored by the Audit Committee, which reviews the findings of each The outcome of these discussions is collated in the Group risk report, which such exercise.
summarises and prioritises the significant risks facing the Group.
These risks are discussed, challenged and reviewed by the Board each year.
j Electronic Internal Control Questionnaire EICQ Each year, every principal business unit is required to complete an electronic The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes in the questionnaire responding to whether key internal financial and non-financial business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
The controls are in place.
The results of these questionnaires are summarised in Finance Director provides the Board with monthly financial information a heat map, which is presented to and discussed by the Audit Committee.
which includes key performance and risk indicators.
More information on The responses to the questionnaires are also reviewed by our principal risks can be found on pages 22 and 23.
Kellers KPIs are set  during each internal audit.
out on page 23. k Annual compliance statement b Authorisation procedures Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable trail of internal controls for which they are responsible: and their compliance with accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and Group policies, local laws and regulations: and to report any significant provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of control weaknesses or breakdowns identified in the past year.
management and, finally, to the Board.
l Business conduct c Management of project risk The Groups business conduct handbook sets out the Groups policies Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding and processes with regards to conducting business in all business units stage to completion.
All business units are required to self-certify that they are compliant with the Groups business conduct handbook and compliance Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are with the handbook is considered as part of the independent reviews.
performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority limits applicable to the approval of bids relate both to the specific risks associated with the contract m Whistle-blowing procedures and to the total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which Keller Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice is a party.
Any bids involving an unusually high degree of technical or at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistle-blowing hotline and commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory e-mail address is available.
Any issues raised are thoroughly investigated where we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level and reported back to the Audit Committee.
The management of financial risks is described in the Financial review and On average, our contracts have a duration of around six weeks but larger the management of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group contracts may extend over several months.
The performance of contracts is described in the Operating review.
is monitored and reported by most business units on a weekly basis.
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration contracts.
Further detail on the management of project risk is provided in the section headed Principal risks and KPIs on pages 22 and 23. d Health and safety Regular reporting, monitoring and reviews of health and safety matters are made to the HSE Committee and the Board.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45
