Governance Corporate governance statement continued Board of Directors 1 Justin Atkinson 4 Roy Franklin Chief Executive.
Age 61 Justin became CEO of Keller in 2004 after joining the Group in 1990.
A Roy was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became Chairman of the Chartered Accountant by training, he has held the roles of Group Finance Board and the Nomination Committee in 2009.
He was formerly Chief Director 19992003 and Chief Operating Officer 2004.
In September Executive of Paladin Resources plc and Group Managing Director of Clyde of 2014, Justin announced his intention to retire from Keller by the end of Petroleum plc, following various senior management posts at BP.
Roys 2015, when he will be 55. background in the international oil and gas sector brings with it an understanding of what it takes to operate within challenging markets.
Age 50 Roy is a Non-executive Director of the Australian-listed company James was appointed Finance Director in 2003 after joining the Group from Santos Ltd.
He is also an Advisory Board Member of Kerogen Capital, a D S Smith plc, where he was Group Financial Controller.
James spent two Non-executive Director of privately held Cuadrilla Resources Holdings years in the New York office of Coopers & Lybrand advising on mergers Limited and is a member of the Supervisory Board of OMV AG.
and acquisitions further to qualifying as an accountant.
5 Ruth Cairnie 3 Wolfgang Sondermann Independent Non-executive Director.
Age 61 Director, Global Technology & Best Practice.
Age 64 Appointed to the Board in 2010, Ruth is a member of the Nomination A geotechnical engineer by training, Wolfgang joined the Group in 1986 and Health, Safety & Environment Committees and is Chairman of the and was appointed to the Board in 2003.
He was appointed Director, Global Remuneration Committee.
A physicist by background, Ruths strategic and Technology & Best Practice in January 2012. commercial experience were gained within Shell, where she held a number of senior international roles, most recently as Executive Vice President In 2014, Wolfgang was appointed as Chairman of the Board of the Strategy and Planning, before her retirement in 2014.
German Geotechnical Society DGGT, a technical and scientific society dedicated to the science and application of soil and rock as a foundation Ruth is a Non-executive Director of Associated British Foods plc and and construction material.
3 5 7 1 38 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 6 Chris Girling 8 Paul Withers Independent Non-executive Director.
Age 58 Chris was appointed to the Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit, Nomination, Nomination Committees in 2011 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration and Health, Safety & Environment Committees on A chartered accountant by training, Chris was formerly Group Finance 17December 2012, Paul is also the Senior Independent Director.
He Director of Carillion plc and he brings to Keller his background in a range qualified as a chartered mechanical engineer and was Group Managing of sectors, as well as recent and relevant financial experience.
Director at BPB plc, the international building materials business, where he spent his executive career.
He is a Non-executive Director of Workspace Group PLC and South East Water Limited and the independent Chairman Trustee for Slaughter and He is a Non-executive Director of Devro plc and Premier Farnell plc.
9 Kerry Porritt 7 Nancy Tuor Moore Group Company Secretary.
Age 66 Kerry was appointed Group Company Secretary in 2013.
She is a Fellow Nancy was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit, of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and has over Nomination and Health, Safety & Environment Committees on 26 June 2014 20 years experience of complex and global FTSE100 companies.
and is Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee.
Nancys extensive international business experience, together with a proven record in winning and safely delivering both global and local contracts, was gained at CH2M Hill, Inc. where she held the Board position of Group President and Corporate Sponsor for Sustainability before retiring in 2013.
Nancy is a Non-executive Director on the Board of Global Food Exchange and a member of the Board of Governors for Colorado State University.
4 2 8 6 9 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Leadership The role of the Board and its Committees Board Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and corporate governance provide entrepreneurial govern the Group within a approve the Groups it delegates authority The Board has formally leadership of the Group framework of prudent strategic objectives to manage the business adopted a schedule of driving it forward for the and effective controls ensure that sufficient to the Chief Executive matters reserved to it benefit, and having regard which enable risk to be resources are available to Officer and also delegates for its decision.
to, the views of its assessed and managed to enable it to meet those other matters to shareholders and other an appropriate level objectives Board committees stakeholders and management as appropriate.
Audit Committee HSE Committee Nomination Remuneration Executive Committee Committee Committee Oversee the Groups Oversee the Boards financial reporting, risk responsibilities in relation Review the composition Determine the Assists the CEO to management and internal to health, safety and of the Board and plan for framework, policy develop and implement control procedures and environmental matters, its progressive and levels of strategy, operational the work of its internal arising out of the refreshing with regard remuneration and plans, budgets, policies and external auditors activities of the Company to balance and structure make recommendations and procedures, monitor page 46 and its subsidiaries as well as succession to the Board on the operating and financial page 42 planning page 44 remuneration of the performance, assess and CEO, executive directors control risks, prioritise and senior executives and allocate resource, page 48 monitor competitive forces in each area of operation.
The terms of reference for each of the Boards key committees, which are reviewed on an annual basis, can be found on our website.
Key roles Responsibilities Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining to the leadership of the Board: ensuring appropriate Board composition: ensuring effective Board processes: setting the Boards agenda: ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee discussions: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the formulation of strategy and the business of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: formulating strategy proposals for the Board: formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this strategy will be delivered: apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the Group and its performance, including any significantly underperforming business activities: and leadership of executive management to enable the Groups businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised management resources: ensuring succession planning: and ensuring appropriate business processes.
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are quite distinct from each other and are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role.
Senior Independent Discusses any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication.
Director The role of Senior Independent Director provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman.
The Board has agreed that the Senior Independent Director will act as Chairman of the Board in the event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
Company Secretary Ensures good information flows to the Board and its committees and between senior management and Non-executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has adopted and that there are effective information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
40 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Board and Committee meetings and attendance Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, its markets, social responsibility matters Audit HSE Nomination Remuneration and other changes affecting the Group and the industry in which it operates, Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Director including changes to the legal and governance environment and the 1 obligations on themselves as Directors.
Justin Atkinson 8 8 3 3 Ruth Cairnie 7 8 3 4 3 4 3 3 In April 2014, the Directors spent two days in Calgary meeting the Roy Franklin 8 8 4 4 senior management team of Keller Canada during which time they 2 Chris Girling 7 8 4 4 1 1 3 4 3 3 received updates on the business and its local markets from the team and from local industry experts.
In December 2014, the Company Secretary James Hind 8 8 facilitated a boardroom discussion on forthcoming regulatory and legislative Wolfgang developments between the Board and its corporate lawyers, DLA Piper Sondermann 7 8 UK LLP.
Nancy Tuor 3 Moore 5 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 Directors conflicts of interests Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation where Paul Withers 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or 1 Justin Atkinson did not attend a Nomination Committee meeting relating possibly may conflict, with Kellers interests.
The Act allows Directors to CEOsuccession.
of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where 2 Chris Girling attended as an alternate member of the HSE Committee in appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this Ruth Cairniesabsence.
The Articles of Association give the Directors authority to approve Nancy Tuor Moore was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014. such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
To address this issue, at the commencement of each Board diversity Board meeting, the Board considers its register of interests and gives, Keller continues to be supportive of the need for diversity on its Board when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
to provide the necessary range of background, experience, values and perspectives to optimise the decision-making process.
Gender is seen There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether as one important aspect of diversity to which the Chairman and the to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only Directors who have Nomination Committee must pay due regard when deciding upon no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant the most appropriate composition of the Board.
decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a way that they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote Kellers The Board has established a range of backgrounds, capabilities and success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving experiences that are critical for the overall Board composition and this authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures on conflict forms the key objective and basis for the search and assessment of have been followed throughout the year and the Board considers the candidates for future positions.
Within this context, in the ongoing process approach to operate effectively.
of refreshing the Board, the Company continues to encourage and welcome interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Boards diversity.
Against this overriding objective, the Company does not currently propose to set targets for the percentage of women or other aspects of diversity on its Board in future years.
The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, comprises 25% women two women: six men 14% at 4 March 2013 one woman: six men.
Within the Keller Group, our overall senior management population comprises 7% women and women employees account for 9% of the organisation as a whole.
Professional development On appointment, Directors are provided with induction training and information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Board Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by meetings with the Companys legal and other professional advisers, and, where appropriate, visits to key locations and meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Directors understanding of the business.
Nancy Tuor Moore was appointed to the Board and as Chairman of the HSE Committee in June 2014.
Nancys induction programme has included specific training on the regulatory and governance requirements of a UK PLC, site visits to a number of contracts in the UK and USA, and attendance at the HSE Safety Conference in the USA.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41
