Strategy Resources and relationships There are four main areas where our The Boards role is to provide effective leadership, With the support of our employees around the business impacts on society and where we establish overall policy for the Group and monitor Group, we have worked hard to create a safe have responsibilities which extend beyond the performance of the operating companies in working environment across all of our businesses our financial performance.
relation to: health and safety: the environment: and we enter 2015 determined to achieve our responsible employment: business ethics: and our goal of zero injuries.
The Chief Executive is ultimately accountable for the Group In last years report, we undertook to report Safety operating in a way that is socially responsible.
back on progress against our 2014 Group-wide We want every person who works for us, or objectives.
These covered a number of high-risk with us, to go home safely at the end of each day.
Our line managers are charged with: delivering areas within the business, and each had a performance safely and with integrity: supporting completion date up to and including 2018.
Group policy: and providing leadership within Environment their companies.
All employees are responsible Reduction in incidents associated with heavy We want to reduce the impact of our operations for following Group policy with the support, plant and equipment: we focused on the on the environment and help to meet our direction and commitment of line management.
prevention of large equipment overturning, customers environmental needs.
using the outcome of a review to develop better Our Code of Business Conduct, introduced in guidance on prevention.
This was carried out by 2012, sets out the Groups policies and practices the HSE safety team, together with our technical relating to: engineers.
They looked at working platforms, Workplace and people operator competency and common We want to be known as a responsible safety circumstances where failures could occur.
employer which people are proud to join.
environment 2014: 8 recorded incidents 2013: 16 competition price-sensitive information Reduction in injuries to hands and feet: we equal opportunities Communities introduced a Carry Glove policy across the harassment We want to continue to take a leadership role Group, supported with an awareness campaign bribery, corruption and fraud within our industry and to value, and be valued that included local road shows and events.
In a gifts and hospitality by, the communities in which we work.
small number of instances, modifications were whistle-blowing.
made to existing equipment to prevent access to moving parts.
Our performance 2014: 112 recorded incidents 2013: 158 Occupational health and wellbeing: we reviewed Safety the divisional offerings and adopted a Group While the Board and senior management remain policy setting minimum standards.
focused on achieving our goal of zero injuries through continuous improvement in our health Implementation of OHSAS 18001 or an and safety performance, we deeply regret that equivalent standard: each division has put an employee lost his life at work on a jobsite in in place a strategy and time frame to gain Ghana in June 2014.
This was the Groups first certification by 2018.
The Groups Head Office fatality since 2011.
Following the incident, the retained the certification it first gained in 2013.
Group Chief Executive and the Groups Health and Safety Director visited the site to ensure Reduction of our Accident Frequency Rate appropriate measures were implemented to AFR : we achieved a reduction in our AFR.
prevent a recurrence and lessons learned 2014: 0.39 2013: 0.61 across the Group.
12 month rolling Accident Frequency Rate AFR per 100,000 hours worked 1.2 Australia 1.0 North America 0.8 EMEA 0.6 Asia 0.4 Group 0.2 0.0 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Asia EMEA North America Australia Group 6 Recorded incidents associated with heavy plant and equipment in 2014 2013: 12 incidents 24 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Environment The increase is due to a number of factors Our Code of Business Conduct can be Greenhouse gas reporting including more complete reporting and the found on our website: Here we report the quantity of greenhouse new units included in the total for 2014.
co. uk how-we-do-it code-of-businessgas GHG emissions for the year ended acquired at the end of 2013 and in 2014 account conduct 31December 2014.
We have adopted the for 6% of the 2014 footprint.
International Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Third-party assurance statement In doing so, we have fulfilled our requirements Keller Group plc appointed Anthesis Consulting under the UKs Greenhouse Gas Emissions Group to provide independent assurance on Directors Reports Regulations 2013. the 2014 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG accounts presented above.
Their summary opinion Reporting boundaries is provided below full opinion and To the best of our knowledge, we have included recommendations are available on request : all material emission sources which fall within the boundaries of our consolidated accounts.
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to All direct Scope 1 and indirect Scope 2 Keller Group plcs assertion that their Scope 1 emissions are reported in absolute tonnes and 2 group inventory is in conformance with the equivalent CO. GHG included are carbon dioxide, requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2 methane and nitrous oxide emissions from the Directors Reports Regulations 2013, following combustion of fuels mentioned below, and carbon the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol dioxide emissions from the consumption of Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
purchased electricity: Anthesis Consulting Group, February 2015 Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions: combustion of diesel, petrol, gas, oil and LPG.
Sustainability Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions: purchased In 2014, we adopted a Group Sustainability Policy.
It is our aim to become a leader in sustainability within our sector by 2020 and we have identified Data gaps and exclusions six priorities that we will take forward as a Since adopting the International Greenhouse Gas business to achieve this: Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard in 2013, we have worked on improving promote sustainable business growth the coverage and accuracy of the reporting.
This keep our people healthy and safe is an ongoing exercise and this year the number support the low carbon economy of data gaps has significantly reduced.
limit our environmental impact be a responsible and inclusive employer Last year we first reported our GHG for the 56 engage positively with communities.
reporting units that made up the Group at that time, about 93% of which were able to provide HSE Committee some data on their primary emission sources.
This In June 2014, we reported the appointment year the Group has expanded to 63 reporting of Nancy Tuor Moore to the Board as an units with 98% now reporting some data, an independent Non-executive Director and as improvement on the prior year.
We have Chairman of the HSE Committee.
Nancy has accounted for these new units in our calculation served on the board of directors of CH2M of the 2014 footprint, including the acquisitions Hill, Inc. a global leader in consulting design, at the end of 2013 and during 2014.
Units also design-build and project management, latterly report more complete data sets than last year as Group President and Corporate Sponsor for more fuels reported, better coverage of the Sustainability.
Prior to that, she held a number whole year.
of senior executive roles within CH2M Hill, both in the US and internationally, most notably 50% Results leading the Rocky Flats Closure Project in Summary Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for the Golden, Colorado, the worlds largest nuclear Reduction in injuries Keller Group are shown below for 2013 and 2014. environmental clean-up programme, and to hands and feet delivering the Masdar City Project development, Global GHG emissions data in tonnes of CO e 2 the desert community that aims to be carbon neutral and zero waste, in Abu Dhabi.
As part of Emissions from: 2014 2013 her induction, Nancy has been working with our Scope 1 Combustion of Group HSE Director and his team to understand fuel & operation of facilities 170,031 135,179 more fully the HSE culture within the Group and Scope 2 Electricity, heat, we look forward to reporting to you next year steam and cooling purchased on areas in which we have been able to make for own use 9,531 6,225 further progress with her input.
Total 179,562 141,404 Intensity measurement: Absolute tonnes equivalent CO e per m of revenue 112 98 2 These intensity measurement figures include the turnover of entities that do not report any consumption data.
When excluding these entities from the total turnover, the figures are 103tCO e m in 2013 and 112tCO e m in 2014.
It is 2 2 not possible to quantify the difference made by the more accurate and complete reporting in 2014, but this would 0.39 also serve to narrow the gap between the 2013 and 2014 carbon intensity.
Accident Frequency Rate AFR 2013: 0.61 per 100,000 hours worked Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 Strategy Resources and relationships continued Workplace and people Communities Keller employs around 9,000 people worldwide, Geotechnical community most of whom are working in front-line roles Our companies take a leadership role within their meeting with, and delivering for, our customers.
industry by providing employees, customers, We are only as good as our employees, which is suppliers and potential employees with technical why we want to be known as a responsible papers, seminars, field trips and site visits.
Staff employer which people are proud to join.
from companies throughout the Group maintain close contact with partner universities in order to As a Group, we believe in treating all employees share best practice and provide examples of their with dignity and respect and do not tolerate any leading-edge engineering.
form of harassment, discrimination or bullying.
We are committed to creating a working Many of our senior managers play key roles in the environment in which every employee is geotechnical construction industrys professional employed and promoted solely on the basis of his associations and activities around the world, or her merit and personal contribution.
We aim getting involved in writing building codes, to provide fair employment opportunity to all specifications, guidelines, and industry-wide whilst not offending, or being insensitive to, the safety initiatives.
traditions and cultures of countries in which we operate.
This is not only about being fair, it also Wider community makes sound business sense.
In terms of engagement with the wider community in which we work, we are generally We are committed to providing training and working for a main contractor, who is the party development opportunities which enable responsible for consulting with any community employees to perform at their best and increase affected by the project.
Our work comes at the their contribution to the Group.
outset of a project and we are typically on and off the project very quickly: and our job sites are In addition to safety, technical and competencyoften in remote locations, where we have no based training, management training programmes interface with members of the public.
There are operate at a Group and at a divisional level.
occasions when we are working in built-up areas One of the ways in which we measure how well or in proximity to the public, such as the London we are doing as an employer is to measure our Crossrail and Victoria Station Upgrade projects, staff turnover, and this key performance indicator and on any such projects in particular we strive to for each division is shown in the Operating reduce our noise and dust levels and to conduct review.
our work in a considerate manner.
Diversity Typically, where we have some community We believe that equal opportunity means hiring engagement, it is by supporting our employees and retaining the best people, developing all when they get involved with community groups employees to their potential and using their and local charities.
talents and resources to the full.
Diversity of people, skills and abilities is a strength which will Ultimately, we want to be a sustainable business help us to achieve our best.
which earns the respect of all of our stakeholders by taking seriously our wider responsibilities.
At the end of the financial year, the breakdown Looking ahead, we aim to bring greater definition of male female employees was as follows: to our sustainability agenda, as we continue to invest in our people, technology, systems and processes to enhance both our business Male Female performance and our reputation as a good Main Board directors corporate citizen.
inc. Non-executive Directors 6 2 Directors senior managers 153 12 9,000 Managers 1,091 94 All employees 7,884 795 Keller employees worldwide 26 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
