Governance Corporate governance statement continued Audit Committee report Dear shareholder This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it carried out during the year.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Companys external auditors the Auditors normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
, in their role as internal auditors, attend at least two meetings of the Committee each year.
Key objective To assist the Board in discharging its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
Chris Girling Terms of reference of the Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk and on request from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee Membership: Chris Girling Chairman Committee meetings Nancy Tuor Moore appointed 26 June 2014 The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.
During this Paul Withers financial year the Committee met four times, all with the Companys Auditors in attendance, and on two of these occasions, the Committee met privately with the Auditors without management being present.
Activities of the Committee During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal control and its effectiveness and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of financial control reviewing and approving the Auditors engagement letter and audit fee reviewing the Auditors reports and the Groups draft financial statements and recommending them for approval to the Board reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost-effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors undertaking an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit process approving a rolling four-year programme of internal audit reviews of aspects of the Groups operations and financial controls and receiving reports on all reviews carried out during the year receiving briefings on various technical issues, such as accounting standards and their practical consequences for Keller reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing policy and monitoring the procedures in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety reviewing the Committees effectiveness and its terms of reference reviewing the Groups policy on employment of the Auditors for non-audit services reviewing the need for an internal audit function reviewing the Groups policy on the employment of former employees of the Auditors.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the Companys processes to ensure that it was able to offer advice to the Board over whether the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts can be considered fair, balanced and understandable.
The following processes were established in 2013 and were used again in 2014 to provide assurance: the co-ordination and review of the Annual Report and Accounts was performed within an exacting time-frame which ran alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the Auditors: guidance was issued to contributors at an operational level: an internal verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports took place: and a comprehensive review was undertaken by the senior management team and external advisers that aimed to ensure consistency and overall balance.
46 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial There are a number of checks and controls in place for safeguarding the statements focused on the Groups approach to key estimates and objectivity and independence of the Auditors.
There are open lines of judgments in connection with: communication and reporting between the Auditors and the Committee and when presenting their independence letter KPMG discuss with the accounting for construction contracts.
The main factors considered Committee their internal process for ensuring independence.
when making those estimates and judgments include the percentage of work completed at the balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, the A detailed assessment of the amounts and relationship of audit and costs of the work required to complete the contract and the outcome non-audit fees and services is carried out each year and the Audit of claims and variations raised against customers and claims raised against Committee has developed and implemented a policy regulating the the Group by customers or third parties.
The Committee has reviewed placing of non-audit services to the Auditors, which should prevent any a report prepared by management on the key estimates and judgments impairment of independence.
Any work awarded to the Auditors, other relating to construction contracts having a material impact on the Groups than audit or tax compliance, with a value in excess of 100,000 requires result for the year, including the estimates and judgments relating to the the specific approval of the Committee.
significant contract dispute presented within exceptional items the carrying value of goodwill.
The Group tests annually whether Over the last five years, the ratio of non-audit related fees paid to the goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting Auditor averaged 49% of the total audit fee.
The ratio of non-audit policy set out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
The Group related fees paid to the Auditor in 2014 is 41% of the total audit fee.
estimates the recoverable amount based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of assumptions, the most important Also, as part of its annual review of Auditors independence, the being the forecast revenues, operating margins and the discount rate Committee reviews the level and nature of entertainment between applied.
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are the Auditors and management.
set out in Note 13 to the financial statements.
The Committee has reviewed the key assumptions used for all impairment tests of material A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at goodwill balances.
In particular, this review has focused on Keller Limited the Annual General Meeting to be held in May 2015. in the UK and Keller Canada where there is the most uncertainty surrounding the projections used in the value in use calculation.
Internal audit The Committee also examined the disclosure of items which are  continues to provide a structured programme described as exceptional in the consolidated income statement of independent, outsourced reviews of all material business units at and discussed the appropriateness of such disclosure with the least once every four years.
During 2014, the Audit Committee received Companys Auditors.
and considered reports from  which detailed the progress against the agreed work programme for 2014.
This These matters and any audit differences are considered in the programme covered reviews of business units in six countries, which Committee meetings that review the full-year and interim results.
together represented approximately 13% of the Groups turnover At these meetings, the Committee discusses with the Auditors whether for the year.
In September, the Committee formally reviewed the they consider managements assumptions behind these estimates effectiveness of these arrangements, concluding that the internal and judgments to be conservative or aggressive.
In addition, during audit arrangements were appropriate and effective.
such meetings, the Committee meets with the Auditors without management being present.
Chris Girling Chairman of the Audit Committee External audit The Committee places great importance on ensuring there are high 2 March 2015 standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process.
KPMG were re-appointed as the Companys Auditor in 2014, further to a retendering of the external audit process.
The Committee has undertaken an assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process of the 2013 financial statements.
This assessment focused on: the calibre of the audit firm including reputation, presence in the industry, size, resources and geographic spread : its quality control processes: the quality of the team assigned to the audit: the audit scope, fee and audit communications: and the governance and independence of the audit firm.
This process was supported by the completion of a questionnaire by each material Keller business and the divisional finance teams following the conclusion of the audit.
The questionnaire covered areas such as the quality of audit team, their understanding of the business, and the management of and approach to the audit.
Where appropriate, actions were agreed against the points raised and will be monitored for progress.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47
