Governance Corporate governance report Board activities in 2014 Director development Compliance with the Code The Board embeds governance practices Directors attend formal training seminars The governance rules which applied throughout the Group so that they are to update their knowledge and duties.
to the Group for 2014 are found in the an integral part of running a successful The Board is regularly notified of changes Code.
The Groups compliance in 2014 business.
In the diagram below we have torelevant laws and regulations.
with each provision of the Code is set set out how the Board spent its time during NonExecutive Directors are invited to out in detail on the Groups website, 2014.
The Board agendas are linked to the attend Group conferences, which provide www.
com, under fundamentals of a trusted brand, a clear information on business strategy, new the Governance section.
strategic plan, strong leadership, motivated product development and sales and The Group complies with every employees and satisfied customers, marketing initiatives.
Business presentations provision of the Code including provision together with the necessary checks and are given at Board meetings to enable B.
1.2 balance of the Board between balances.
We focus on longterm plans for a review of new product development, Executive and NonExecutive Directors.
our businesses, the issues that matter on regional operations, business strategies and Following the retirement of Mark Vernon the ground, and what our management and employee development.
and GarethBullock, and the appointment people are doing daytoday.
The Board An induction pack is provided to new of Jamie Pike as an independent spends 20% of its time ensuring the Groups appointees to the Board and induction NonExecutive Director, we deliberately operations and risk management controls procedures include site visits, briefings moved to a position of compliance as the are effective.
In 2014 the Board devoted by senior managers and meetings with number of independent NonExecutive 35% of its time to the steam business and major shareholders.
Directors, excluding the NonExecutive pump business strategies, the Group 2020 Chairman, now equals the number of plan and the Group corporate strategy.
Fair, balanced and During 2014 the Board also regularly understandable The Board is committed to the Code reviewed the Groups performance and provisions on board diversity and has set satisfied itself that, despite difficult trading In accordance with the Code, the Directors measurable objectives to monitor progress.
conditions and foreign exchange headwinds, confirm that they consider the Annual Report Diversity is discussed in more detail in the management was on track in delivering and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Nomination Committees report on pages the strategic business plan.
In addition, balanced and understandable and provides 70 and 71. the Board concentrated its efforts on the information necessary for shareholders succession planning during its strategic to assess the Groups performance, planning meeting in June.
The Board also business model and strategy.
regarded engagement with shareholders on governance, remuneration and trading as a significant issue.
The Board adopted a Human Rights Policy to support our values, which is explained in the Sustainability report on page 50.
Board focus during 2014 Strategy 35% Operations and risk 20% Governance and shareholders 15% Finance 10% New product development 10% People and succession 10% 62 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board effectiveness In 2012, we commissioned an independently facilitated Board effectiveness review conducted by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Ltd, inaccordance with the provisions of the Code.
We intend to carry out a followup review with Dr Long in 2015.
The Board effectiveness review for 2013 focused on monitoring progress with Dr Longs recommendations and this was taken a step further in 2014 when we conducted our own Board effectiveness evaluation.
As a result, the Board actioned the following in 2014: Detailed strategic business and corporate planning in June 2014 Reviewed succession planning and development of senior managers Actively engaged in diversity through the deployment of diversity training for all UK employees and was involved in senior succession planning, including the appointment of females in the roles of Head of Group Marketing, UK Head of Human Resources, EMEA Strategic Programme Manager and Group Head of Compensation and Benefits Formalised Committee feedback to the Board Reviewed the schedule of Board and Committee meetings across the year and, wherever possible, ensured that Committee meetings are held on a different day from the Board meetings to ensure that there is adequate time for important matters to be fully and properly discussed.
Board evaluation cycle 2012 External Next external 2013 Internal evaluation 2015 2014 Internal Board attendance Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings, and individual attendance by Director for 2014, are set out in the table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Management Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 3 2 3 2 W. H. Whiteley 7 N A 2 N A N A N. J. Anderson 7 N A 2 N A 2 1 D. J. Meredith 6 N A N A N A 2 N. H. Daws 7 N A N A N A 2 J. L. Whalen 7 N A N A N A 2 2 G. R. Bullock 2 0 1 1 N A K. Rajagopal 7 3 2 3 N A 3 J. Pike 4 1 0 1 N A G. E. Schoolenberg 7 3 2 3 N A 4 C. G. Watson 7 3 2 2 N A 1 Absence due to illness.
4 Absence due to prior commitment.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 4.
Strategic report Governance Corporate governance report continued Governance structure The Board Committees and functions are listed below, together with an overview of their activities and the main person responsible.
The Terms of Reference for the Committees are published on the Groups website, www.
com, under the Governance section.
Group Board Bill Whiteley Chairman Audit Nomination Risk Management Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Clive Watson Bill Whiteley Nick Anderson Krishnamurthy Rajagopal Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Responsibility Monitors integrity of Recommends Board Ensures risk management Recommends remuneration financial statements appointments is meaningful, relevant and strategy and framework to focused on improving the attract, retain and reward Ensures significant issues Reviews succession plans.
business senior executives have been addressed Risk scenario planning: China Determines annual Executive Reviews effectiveness and EMEA Director and senior executive of internal controls and remuneration external auditor.
Approves Performance Share Plan PSP awards Determines the remuneration policy set out in the Remuneration policy report 2014.
Further information on each of the Committees' activities during the 12month period to 31st December 2014 is set out in pages 66 to 97.
64 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Board meets as often as is necessary Group Board Committee composition to discharge its duties.
In 2014 the Board The Board relies on executive management The NonExecutive Directors play an met seven times.
All Directors are expected to run the business and monitor important governance role in the detailed to attend all Board meetings and relevant management activities and holds them work they carry out on our Committees on Committee meetings unless prevented by accountable against targets and standards.
All the NonExecutive prior commitments, illness or a conflict of The Board also approves longterm Directors are determined by the Board to be interest.
Directors unable to attend specific corporate and strategic plans after a full independent in character and judgement, Board or Committee meetings are sent review and assessment of market and incompliance with the Code.
The Chairman the relevant papers and asked to provide technology trends, business drivers and was independent on appointment.
comments in advance of the meeting to risks.
Having a senior management team The General Counsel and Company the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
that is capable of executing the strategic Secretary supports the Committee In addition, all Board and Committee plans is a key focus.
Chairmen in making sure members are members receive the minutes of meetings The formal schedule of matters equipped for informed decisionmaking as a matter of course.
reserved for the Boards decision and that they allocate their time to the The Directors attendance record at Board is available on the Groups website, right subjects.
and Committee meetings is set out on www.
com, under The Board has satisfied itself that at least page 63.
The NonExecutive Directors the Governance section.
one member of the Audit Committee, meet without the Executive Directors The NonExecutive Directors provide namely Clive Watson, has recent and present to discuss the Executive Directors independent challenge and review, bringing relevant financial experience and is performance and other matters.
The Senior wide experience, specific expertise and a confident that the collective experience Independent Director is available to discuss fresh objective perspective.
of its members enables it to be effective.
concerns with shareholders, in addition to The Audit Committee also has access to the normal channels of the Chairman, Group the financial expertise of the Group, the Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
external and internal auditors and can seek The Board has a conflicts of interest policy further professional advice at the Companys and has put in place procedures for the expense, if required.
disclosure and review of any potential or actual conflicts.
Roles and responsibilities Key Board matters Chairman Group Chief Executive The approval of corporate and strategic Managing the Board Leadership business plans Safeguarding governance The Groups short, medium and longterm The approval of the annual and interim performance Performance with Group Chief Executive results Stewardship of capital, technical and Shareholder contact with Group Chief Interim management statements human resources Executive and Finance Director Acquisitions disposals Corporate and business strategy Director performance Major capital expenditure Internal risk management controls Succession planning Director appointments Organisational structure Major litigation Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 4.
