Governance Board of Directors Nick Anderson David Meredith BSc Engineering, MBA 54 FCMA, CGMA 55 Group Chief Executive Finance Director Committees Committees Nomination, Risk Management Chairman Risk Management Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board March 2012.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer June 1992 inAugust 2013 and Group Chief Executive in Areas of experience January 2014 Finance and accounting, engineering, international, Areas of experience pensions International, operational, industrial, sales and Background marketing, engineering Before joining the Group in 1988 as Group Background Accountant, David Meredith trained as an Before joining the Group in 2011 as Director EMEA, accountant with Redman Heenan International, a Nick Anderson was VicePresident of John Crane specialist engineering group, and was appointed Asia Pacific part of Smiths Group plc, based in Accountant at their Heenan Drives Ltd subsidiary.
Singapore, and President of John Crane Latin David later joined English & American Reinsurance America, based in the USA.
Previously, Nick held Company where he held finance positions.
senior positions with Alcoa Aluminio in Argentina and the Foseco Minsep Group plc in Brazil.
Bill Whiteley BSc, FCMA 66 Chairman Committees Nomination Chairman Appointed to the Board July 2002.
Appointed Chairman in June 2009 Areas of experience Senior management, engineering, international Background Until his retirement in 2008, Bill Whiteley was Jamie Pike Krishnamurthy Rajagopal Chief Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been MBA, MA, MIMechE 59 FREng, CEng, FIET, FIMechE, FIE, FCMI, PhD 61 a Director since 1984.
Bill has been awarded Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director an honorary Doctorate of Engineering by the Senior Independent Director University of Bath.
Committees Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman External appointments Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman of Brammer plc and Hill & Smith Appointed to the Board Holdings PLC.
Appointed to the Board February 2009 May 2014 Areas of experience Areas of experience Remuneration, engineering, senior management, Senior management, engineering, international operations Background Background Jamie Pike joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 and On completing his Doctorate in 1980, was Chief Executive of Burmah Castrol Chemicals Krishnamurthy Rajagopal held senior positions before leading the Foseco buyout in 2001 and in BOC Group plc prior to being named Chief its subsequent flotation in 2005.
Prior to joining Executive of BOC Edwards and Executive Director Burmah, he was a partner at Bain & Company.
of the BOC Group plc, before retiring in 2006.
Jamie was educated at Oxford, holds an MBA Hewas previously a NonExecutive Director of FSI from INSEAD and is a Member of the Institute of International Inc. Foseco Ltd and Dyson Group plc.
External appointments 3 External appointments Chairman of UMI Ltd and HHV Pumps Ltd. Chairman of Lafarge Tarmac Limited, Tyman plc NonExecutive Director of WS Atkins plc, Bodycote and RPC Group.
plc, e2v technologies plc and Porvair plc.
60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Neil Daws Jay Whalen CEng, FIMechE 52 BA, MBA 58 Executive Director, EMEA Executive Director, WMFTG Committees Committees Risk Management Risk Management Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board June 2003 March 2012 Areas of experience Areas of experience Manufacturing, engineering, product development Sales and marketing, engineering, international sales, broad operational experience business development Background Background Neil Daws joined the Group in 1978 and held Jay Whalen joined the Group in 1991 as President positions in production and design engineering of WatsonMarlow Inc. in the USA.
He was prior to being named as UK Supply Director.
named Sales and Marketing Director of the global Following this Neil has held responsibility for Asia WatsonMarlow pump business in 2002 and in Pacific, Latin America and the Groups Supply 2010 was appointed to his current Group position operations, including the Groups health, safety and of President, WatsonMarlow Fluid Technology environmental matters.
Prior to joining WatsonMarlow, Jay was VicePresident Operations for HarvardBioscience, Inc. Trudy Schoolenberg Clive Watson PhD 56 B Comm Acc, ACA, CTA 57 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Committees Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board August 2012 July 2009 Areas of experience Areas of experience Engineering, product development, oil and Finance, tax and treasury, engineering petrochemical Background Background Clive Watson held several tax and finance roles Prior to her current position at AkzoNobel, before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as Director of TrudySchoolenberg served as VicePresident Tax and Treasury Europe.
He was later appointed of Global Research & Development at Wrtsil VicePresident of Business Planning and Analysis Oy.
Trudy previously held senior management in the USA.
Clive then joined Thorn Lighting as positions with Royal Dutch Shell plc and was Head Group Finance Director before working for Borealis of Strategy for Shell Chemicals.
as Chief Financial Officer and Executive VicePresident of Business Support.
External appointments Director of Integrated Supply Chain and Research, External appointments Note: Development and Innovation, Decorative Paints Executive Director and Group Finance Director of Mark Vernon retired as Group Chief Executive in January 2014 and Division of AkzoNobel.
NonExecutive Director of Spectris plc.
Gareth Bullock retired as an independent NonExecutive Director COVA and Low & Bonar PLC.
and Senior Independent Director in May 2014.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 4.
