Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Audit and Risk Letter from John Warren Committee Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder As the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee I am pleased to present to you the Committees 2014 report.
One of our key tasks at the end of the year was to review and satisfy ourselves that the fair, balanced and understandable requirement for the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts had been met.
A number of additional procedures were put in place by the Company, including a working session of the Committee in December, to enable this assessment to be made on as informed a basis as possible.
At our February meeting John Warren Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee we were comfortable therefore in concluding that the requirement had been met and making a recommendation to the Board to that effect.
One of the key accounting judgements that the Committee needed to consider during the year was the assessment of the Groups weighted average cost of capital and the long-term growth rates of each business as part of its annual goodwill impairment review.
We were able to conclude that these assessments had been made on a reasonable and prudent basis.
The internal audit activity and process over the year was reviewed, together with the level of internal audit resourcing, which the Committee considers to be satisfactory.
The Committee examined the work done to identify the full range of third-party assurance activity: to better understand how this affects the Groups risk profile and to address any gaps arising.
Work will continue in this area.
The Committee noted the Groups information security initiatives and the progress made to date, including penetration testing to measure resilience against external threats.
In the external environment, there is continuing focus on the quality of work and reporting in relation to significant financial issues and the challenge that audit committees bring to bear.
Within our report, we discuss the areas of accounting judgements that arose during the year, distinguishing between those that are specific to the year and those of a recurring nature, and how we satisfied ourselves that they were prudent and appropriate.
The Groups internal control systems are subject to continuous assessment, but the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, issued in September 2014, provides an opportunity to carry out a fresh and holistic review.
This, together with the review of our processes to enable the Board to make our long-term viability statement, will be the significant priorities for the Committee during 2015.
Yours faithfully John Warren Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 27 February 2015 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 The following matters were considered by the Committee at its scheduled meetings: Audit and Risk January 2014 Committee 2013 year-end issues including 2013 internal audit review Ethics programme areas legal and divestment provisions, and 2014 plan.
of focus in 2014 and review Report weighted average cost of of whistleblowing reports.
2013 draft Audit and capital, impairment and the continued Risk Committee Report going concern statements.
and draft external auditors audit opinion.
February 2014 Membership and responsibilities The full-year Financial External auditors objectivity, Update on information The Committee is appointed by the Board Statements including the effectiveness and security measures.
and comprises, at the date of this report, independent Auditors Report.
John Warren Chairman, Peter Chambr, Fair, balanced and Defined benefit plan, valuations Lisa Davis, Russell King, Ulf Quellmann, understandable assessment.
Bill Seeger and Martha Wyrsch.
John Warren is a chartered accountant and has recent and July 2014 relevant financial experience, having been the Review of whistleblowing The interim Financial Internal audit risk management former group finance director of both United Statements and issues raised update.
Biscuits plc and WH Smith PLC and currently by management and the Update on the business ethics Risk management review chairing the audit committees of Bovis Homes external auditor.
programme including a review and significant legal issues.
Group plc, Welsh Water, 4imprint plc and The 2014 external audit of progress in Group-wide Greencore Group plc.
The Committee strategy and scope.
training initiatives and the benefits greatly from Mr Warrens skilled third-party risk assessment and Update on the internal audit leadership and the wide-ranging expertise due diligence programme.
review and resourcing within of the other Committee members.
Full the internal audit function.
biographical details are on pages 42 and 43.
The Head of Business Ethics and Governance December 2014 acts as secretary to the Committee.
Working meeting to discuss an Early discussion of fair, early draft of the 2014 Annual balanced and understandable The Committee operates under terms Report with the project team.
of reference approved by the Board which are available on the Companys website.
January 2015 2014 year-end issues including 2014 internal audit review Ethics programme update Activities during the year legal and other provisions, and 2015 plan.
weighted average cost of 2014 draft Audit and Risk Update on the Groups The Committee met formally three times capital, long-term growth rate, Committee Report and current risk landscape.
during 2014, and had an informal working impairment and the going draft external auditors meeting in December to consider various concern statements.
Potential impact of IFRS 15. audit opinion.
reports in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
The formal meetings coincided Information Security review.
with key dates in the financial reporting cycle.
February 2015 Committee members attendance can be The full-year Financial External auditors objectivity, Defined benefit plan, found on page 44.
The Head of Business Statements including effectiveness and valuations and control Ethics and Governance and the Group the independent independence.
Finance Director worked with the Chairman Auditors Report.
to set each meetings agenda.
Executives Fair value accounting in Fair, balanced and relation to 2014 acquisitions.
and other senior management were invited understandable assessment.
to attend as appropriate to provide updates on operational and strategic matters, A number of these are discussed in further detail opposite.
participate in debate and answer questions posed by the Committee.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Risk Accounting, management technical and and assurance External corporate Committee meeting Internal including Financial auditor governance 1 participation audit ethics reporting independence updates Chief Executive Group Finance Director Business Group Directors Company Secretary Head of Business Ethics and Governance Head of Internal Audit 2 External Auditor Presented reports Participated in debate answered Committee questions 1 Committee members also receive regular technical updates from KPMGs Audit Committee Institute.
2 The external auditor met with the members of the Committee following the February 2014 and 2015 meetings, in a private session without management present.
Financial reporting Acquisition fair value accounting in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
Judgement is required to determine the This resulted in the nominal post-tax WACC After discussion with both management fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in rate for the Group being reduced to 7.9% and the external auditor, the Committee business combinations, particularly in respect 2013: 8.4% with long-term growth rates determined that the key risks of misstatement of intangible assets which can be industry remaining unchanged at 4% 2013: 4%.
in the Groups Financial Statements for 2014 specific.
Contingent consideration payable The Committee reviewed the calculations related to: on the achievement of future sales targets and was satisfied that the assumptions acquisition fair value accounting: is dependent on the achievement of these were appropriate.
As a result, judgement is required the carrying value of goodwill and other the assessment of goodwill and intangible in measuring the fair value of the Groups intangible assets including detailed assets for impairment: and contingent consideration obligation, both at calculations of value in use for those provisions, given the judgemental nature the acquisition date and at the Consolidated cash-generating units whose recoverable of the assessment and estimation.
Statement of Financial Position date.
amount is not significantly greater than its carrying amount to ensure the carrying Provisions and impairment of goodwill are The Committee considered the approach values are supported by forecast future recurring in nature from year to year whilst taken by management and the work discounted cash flows.
No impairment acquisition fair value accounting relates undertaken by the external auditor and charges were required as a result of the specifically to acquisitions made during the concluded that the judgements that had impairment assessment.
These issues were discussed with been made were fair and appropriate.
management and with the external auditor The external auditor explained the at the time the Committee reviewed and Impairment of goodwill and other results of its own review of the estimate agreed the external auditors Group audit intangible assets of value in use, including its challenge plan, when the auditor reviewed the half-year As more fully explained in Note 11 to the of managements underlying cash flow interim Financial Statements in July 2014 Financial Statements, the total carrying projections as well as the long-term growth and also at the conclusion of the 2014 audit amount of goodwill and other intangible assumptions and updated discount rate.
of the full-year Financial Statements.
assets at 31 December 2014 is 777.9 million.
On the basis of their audit work, no During the year, management reviewed the impairments were identified.
Following weighted average cost of capital WACC discussion, the Committee was satisfied calculation and the long-term growth rates that the approach taken by management to be applied in determining the discounted was appropriate and that there was value of the projected cash flows of the no requirement to record any impairment cash-generating units as more fully explained in the Financial Statements.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 tax provisions Management confirmed to the Committee Audit and Risk Provisions held in respect of tax risks are that the provisions recorded at 31 December included within current and deferred tax 2014 represented their best estimate of the Committee liabilities depending on the underlying likely financial exposure faced by the Group.
Significant Report The external auditor explained to the management judgement is exercised in Committee the work it had conducted continued arriving at the amounts to be provided.
during the year, which supported the carrying Management confirmed to the Committee value of the provisions.
Following discussion that the provisions recorded at 31 December of the key assumptions and judgements, 2014 represent their best estimate of the the Committee concluded that the carrying Provisions likely financial exposure faced by the Group.
values were reasonable in the circumstances.
Working capital provisions The external auditor explained to the Further information about the specific Provisions are made to write down slowCommittee the work it had conducted during categories of provisions held by the Group moving and obsolete inventory items to net the year, including how its audit procedures is set out in Note 18 to the Financial realisable value, based on an assessment of were focussed on those provisions with the Statements.
technological and market developments and highest level of judgement on recognition on an analysis of historic and projected usage criteria and or measurement.
The Committee Misstatements with regard to quantities.
The assessment discussed with both management and the Management confirmed to the Committee used to calculate the provisions needed external auditor the key judgements which they were not aware of any material or requires the application of judgement by had been made and was satisfied that they immaterial misstatements made intentionally management.
were reasonable and that, accordingly, to achieve a particular presentation.
the provision amounts recorded were The Groups approach to trade receivables The Committee confirms that as a result appropriate.
is for the initially recognised fair value of the presentations made to the Committee to be reduced by appropriate allowances by the external auditor and the ensuing Other provisions for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
discussions and questioning of the external including product warranty, legal The application of this approach requires auditor by Committee members, it is and divestment-related provisions judgement by management in respect of satisfied that the external auditor has As further explained in Note 1 to the Financial amounts which are deemed irrecoverable.
fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence Statements, a provision is recognised in the Further information about our exposure and professional scepticism.
Financial Statements when the Group has to credit risk and the quality of our a present legal or constructive obligation After reviewing the presentations and receivables is set out in Note 14 to the as a result of a past event and it is probable reports from management and consulting Financial Statements.
an outflow of resources, that can be reliably where necessary with the external auditor, Management confirmed to the Committee measured, will be required to settle the the Committee is satisfied that the Financial that there have been no significant changes obligation.
Provisions are recognised at Statements appropriately address critical to the approach used to estimate working an amount equal to managements best judgements and key estimates both in capital provisions from the prior year.
estimate of the expenditure required respect to the amounts reported and the to settle the Groups liability, taking into disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied The external auditor explained to the account the time value of money, where that the significant assumptions used for Committee the work it had conducted this is considered material.
determining the value of assets and liabilities during the year.
On the basis of its audit have been appropriately scrutinised, work, the external auditor reported no On legal and contractual exposures, the challenged and are sufficiently robust.
Committee received reports in January and Following discussion, the Committee was July 2014 and January 2015 from the Head satisfied that the judgements that had of Commercial and Company Secretary been exercised were appropriate and that outlining the open legal and contractual therefore the provisions were appropriately disputes and best estimate of the expected stated at the year end.
costs associated with such matters.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Fair, balanced and Oversight of internal audit The Committee debated and agreed the adequacy of internal assurance resources understandable and risk management at its meetings in January and July 2014 and The fair, balanced and understandable The Committee took responsibility for January 2015, during which the progress processes adopted in relation to the 2013 reviewing the Groups internal controls on the internal audit plan was also examined.
Annual Report were further enhanced this through engagement with the Head of year with the establishment of a project Internal Audit, who is employed to perform Each operating company regularly assesses, team made up of members of Group Finance, control reviews across the Group according evaluates and reports risks of Group Group Secretariat and Corporate Affairs, all to a work programme agreed by the significance against established criteria with responsible for authoring the Annual Report.
The 2014 internal audit plan was respect to the impact, likelihood and time Regular meetings were held during the established based on a number of factors.
frame of each identified risk.
In addition, each compilation period to ensure that there was These include ensuring an appropriate level operating company is required to document appropriate linkage between the various of audit coverage of the Groups core how it is managing and mitigating these risks.
sections of the report and balanced financial processes is achieved through A summary of the status of risks is reviewed reporting.
In addition, an extensive rotational site visits, whilst also providing by the Committee at least twice a year.
verification exercise was undertaken to the Committee with reasonable assurance Additional information on the Groups risk ensure factual accuracy, and comprehensive that controls in respect of certain key areas management framework is contained on reviews of the draft Annual Report and of risk management, such as compliance page 16 in the Strategic Report.
Accounts were undertaken by Executive with laws and regulations or new product and senior management, including a formal development, operate effectively.
Further information on the processes which review of all Board and Board Committee the Board and the Committee have applied The Head of Internal Audit is assisted in this minutes.
The December 2014 meeting in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups work by six further internal auditors who are held to review an early draft of the Annual internal control framework is summarised on located in key strategic locations of the Report and Accounts provided an page 50.
United States, Asia and the UK.
In addition, opportunity to challenge the fair, balanced the internal audit function is supported by and understandable assessment and test additional resources as required drawn both whether appropriate balance had been given internally from within the organisation and to positive and negative news.
Following externally through a co-sourcing agreement discussions at our February 2015 meeting, with Deloitte.
we have advised the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
Anti-bribery framework third-party management During the year, robust efforts were made Scope of third parties in the operating companies to implement Sales channel partners identied Phase 1: the enhanced third-party due diligence and quantied across the Group Information framework, which assesses the commercial gathering viability of existing and new sales channel partners as well as the potential anti-bribery risks, with a particular focus on higher-risk territories.
Appropriate Third-party risk assessment As part of the Committees risk remit, segregation of and due diligence it scrutinised the third-party management responsibilities Circa 25% of partners prioritised framework and programme implementation as part of control for risk assessment at its July 2014 meeting.
Further periodic framework: updates will be provided to the Committee end-to-end processing Principal criteria used for going forward.
or qualication is not prioritisation include: completed by a single Home market and countries of operation individual.
Review, determination of Sales volume appropriate mitigation Length of relationship and approval dealt with by different Interactions with government entities Phase 2: individuals dependent Third-party on risk score.
qualication Risk mitigation and approval Mitigation steps include: Contractual audit rights Anti-bribery undertakings Anti-bribery training Contract termination Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 The Committee has a non-audit services Whistleblowing policy Audit and Risk policy governing and restricting the and process appointment of the external auditor for Committee Details of the Groups whistleblowing non-audit services.
Services which have policy are provided within the Ethics Report the potential to, or appear to, impair their Report on page 28. independence, for example, involvement continued in activities that require making judgements Information security or decisions which are the responsibility of management, are expressly precluded.
The During 2014, we further developed our policy is available on the Companys website.
External auditor appointment, We continued the rollout of our information The Committee considers it essential to security training programme entitled effectiveness and independence rigorously impose the cumulative annual cap The value of information in order to for non-audit services save for acquisition The Committee is responsible for overseeing increase the level of information security the selection process relating to the due diligence and taxation services, above awareness, provide guidance and encourage which all engagements are subject to the appointment of the external auditor, the adoption of safe information handling making recommendations to the Board for Committees prior approval.
In August, a series of meetings fees for the year amounted to 0.3 million.
the auditors reappointment and approving were held with operating companies to set the external auditors remuneration, its Further details are included in Note 5 out the future vision of the information to the Financial Statements.
terms of engagement and scope of work.
security programme, ensuring that there was Re-appointment of the external auditor is The external auditors full-year report to the a common information security risk baseline considered by the Committee each year Committee contained a statement on its across the Group with valuable information following a review of the external auditors independence and compliance with the assets and specific risks threats against these effectiveness.
The effectiveness of KPMG LLP Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards, assets identified.
A new risk register was was therefore reviewed by the Committee arrangements to manage conflicts of interest developed to facilitate this, detailing the and following that review the Committee and the nature and associated fees for controls in place and risk mitigating strategies was content to reappoint KPMG LLP as the non-audit services provided, which was required.
In 2015, an external advisory Companys external auditor.
firm will be engaged to undertake an KPMG LLP was appointed as the Companys independent assessment and benchmarking The cumulative cap, periodic refreshment auditor on 12 May 1998, but the lead of the identified risks and controls at the of the external audit team and review audit partner has changed three times operating companies, such that a tailored of its work, together with the ten-year subsequently, in line with rotation information security roadmap will be re-tendering of the external audit service requirements.
The current audit partner is developed.
The operating companies will contract, are considered by the Committee Richard Broadbelt, who was appointed on then be tasked to prioritise and implement to be appropriate controls to mitigate 19 April 2012.
It is the Committees current the recommendations.
Following this threats to the independence and objectivity policy to put the external audit contract out implementation, assurance on the risks of the external auditor.
to tender at least every ten years.
The next and controls will be obtained from Group The Committee has considered the risk of tender will be no later than the planned internal audit.
the withdrawal of its auditor from the market rotation of the current audit partner in 2016. in its risk evaluation and planning and has There are no contractual obligations that concluded that the risk is insignificant.
In the restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
event that the Companys auditor did exit To assess the effectiveness of the external the market, a replacement appointment auditor, the Committee reviewed the would be made from audit firms of fulfilment of the agreed audit plan, reports equivalent standing.
of major issues arising from the audit process and commentary from the Group Finance Director, Group Finance, Internal Audit, and operating company management teams.
The Committee also reviewed the procedures followed by the external auditor to achieve audit quality.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56
