Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Nomination Letter from Dr John Hughes cbe Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our Nomination Committee Report, which summarises our work during the year.
The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to assist it with the review of the Companys leadership needs to ensure its continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Our principal activity in 2014 comprised assisting the Board with the recruitment of three Non-executive Directors: Lisa Davis, Ulf Quellmann and Bill Seeger.
These appointments were founded upon an analysis of the additional skills, experiences Dr John Hughes cbe Chairman of the Nomination Committee and diversity in its widest aspects which it would be desirable to see represented on the Board.
This analysis was a key focus of our 2014 Board evaluation process, as described within the Corporate Governance Report.
The Committee considered a range of candidates with the financial skills and experience necessary to assume the chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Bill Seeger will replace John Warren as Chairman with immediate effect, ahead of Johns retirement from the Board after the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
In addition, we identified the desirability of further strengthening the financial experience available to the Audit and Risk Committee, resulting in the appointment of Ulf Quellmann.
These appointments increase the number of Non-executive Directors on the Board to six and permit modification of the membership of the three Board Committees.
It is no longer appropriate or necessary for all to serve on each Committee.
This reduction will allow each Director to focus specifically upon their particular Committee responsibilities and then for the Board as a whole to review the work of each Committee in a more structured manner than previously.
With immediate effect, the Committee memberships will thus be as follows: Audit and Risk Bill Seeger Chairman, Peter Chambr, Ulf Quellmann, Martha Wyrsch.
Remuneration Russell King Chairman, Peter Chambr, Lisa Davis, Ulf Quellmann.
Nomination Dr John Hughes Chairman, John OHiggins, Peter Chambr, Lisa Davis, Russell King, Martha Wyrsch.
At our meeting in January this year, we considered the effectiveness and contribution of individual Directors during the past year and recommended to the Board that each save for John Warren who retires after nine years service be put forward for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee also considered and re-confirmed the independence of each of the Boards Non-executive Directors.
I hope you will join me in supporting the re-election of the Directors at the Annual General Meeting, where I will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Yours faithfully Dr John Hughes cbe Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2015 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 48 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Membership and responsibilities The diagram below indicates for each Non-executive Director the period to the The Nomination Committee is appointed by ninth anniversary of his or her first election by the Board.
Its members are the Chairman, the shareholders, during which a Non-executive Chief Executive and all of the Non-executive Director will be considered independent Directors.
It is chaired by the Chairman in accordance with the UK Corporate of the Board, save in the event of discussions Governance Code.
Any extension of the relating to his succession, when the Senior appointment beyond that point would Independent Director would take the chair.
require close review by the Committee The Committee reviews the size, structure of the individuals continued independence, and composition including skills, experience effectiveness and contribution to the and diversity of the Board and its Boards deliberations.
Committees: considers succession planning for Directors, Executive Committee members Appointment process and senior leadership: is responsible for Following the Boards decision that the identifying candidates for Board positions: appointment of a new Director is appropriate, and reviews the results of Board performance the Committee works with external search evaluations.
Full terms of reference are firms to present suitably qualified candidates available to view on the Companys website.
In doing so, we evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and Activities during the year experience on the Board and the Executive The Committee met three times during the team and develop a description of the role year.
Further details are set out on page 44. and required capabilities.
In searching for a suitable replacement for John Warren, the Committee had been directed to look both Succession planning for finance experience and sector industry Board succession planning is considered experience to complement and enhance by the Nomination Committee and this year the Boards existing skills and experience mix.
was linked closely to the Board evaluation Diversity in all aspects and nationality were process which focussed upon the desired also considered as part of the search process.
range of Directors skills, experience and diversity necessary to support Short-listed candidates are subject development of the Group strategy and its to a rigorous process of interviews and implementation.
The information obtained comprehensive reference checks.
The from this analysis was and will be used Chairman gathers the feedback from each by the Nomination Committee to address member of the Committee individually any gaps in experience, end-user markets, prior to collective debate in order to geographical knowledge and perspectives.
ensure that all Directors impressions and recommendations are taken fully Following consideration of a report from into consideration.
the Nomination Committee, the Board agreed that overall it possessed an This process was followed for the appropriate and complementary mix appointment of new Non-executive Directors of experiences and background, but that it Lisa Davis in April 2014, Ulf Quellmann would benefit from additional experience in and Bill Seeger in January 2015 and new the downstream oil and gas and automotive Business Group Directors Eoghan OLionaird sectors and in finance accounting.
and Jo Hallas in February and May 2014, respectively.
External search firm Egon In accordance with the UK Corporate Zehnder was engaged for each of these Governance Code, all Non-executive appointments.
Egon Zehnder adheres to the Directors are each year required to Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive retire and be subject to re-election Search Firms and provided no other services by shareholders.
to the Company during the year.
Non-executive Director tenure John Warren Peter Chambr Russell King Martha Wyrsch Lisa Davis Bill Seeger Ulf Quellmann 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Date of AGM Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
