Governance Nomination Committee We aim for a strong, well balanced and diverse Board and senior management, equipped with professional skills and experience.
Bill Whiteley Chairman, Nomination Committee Membership and attendance Committee member Attendance Number of meetings 2 W. H. Whiteley 2 1 N. J. Anderson 2 2 G. R. Bullock 1 3 J. Pike 0 K. Rajagopal 2 G. E. Schoolenberg 2 C. G. Watson 2 1 Appointed to Committee 16th January 2014.
How the Committee spent Role of the Committee itstime during the year The main role of the Committee is to recommend changes to the Board and consider succession planning for the future.
Summary of the key Committee activities in 2014 Recommended to the Board the appointment of JamiePike asanindependent NonExecutive Director and Senior IndependentDirector Succession planning Recruitment 40% Succession planning 30% Diversity Read more Board and Committee composition 15% on page 71 Diversity 15% 70 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Responsibilities Make appropriate Review the structure and Recommend any proposed Consider succession recommendations to the composition of the Board: changes to the Board planning arrangements Board for the appointment, with regard to the overall for Directors and, more re-appointment or balance of skills, knowledge generally, senior executives replacement of Directors and experience of Board members against current and perceived future requirements of the Group our Leadership Academy in conjunction with We will also encourage the progress of Review of 2014 Ashridge Business School and our Aspire women in senior positions throughout the We recommended the appointment of programme for senior managers.
Group and, during 2014, women were Nick Anderson as Group Chief Executive.
appointed as Head of Group Marketing, This appointment was part of the Groups The Executive Directors meet frequently to UK Head of Human Resources, EMEA review organisational staffing requirements ongoing succession planning and followed Strategic Programme Manager, Head of a comprehensive nomination process.
against career planning of highpotential Compensation and Benefits and Head of leaders.
The most recent review of Gareth Bullock advised the Board that he Learning and Talent.
We are also constantly succession planning by the full Board did not intend to seek reelection at the improving the intake of female professionals formed part of the strategic planning AGM after completing nine years as an to ensure a better talent pipeline for senior meeting held in June 2014. independent NonExecutive Director and leadership roles in the future.
Senior Independent Director, which is the The Group seeks to have Directors who, We have offered practical support for the in addition to relevant technical and maximum period of tenure for assured Department for Business Innovation and independence as set out in the Code.
commercial expertise, meet the highest Skills Women on Boards FTSE 250 standards of judgement, critical thinking In consequence of Gareth Bullock stepping initiative, by nominating and supporting two down, the Committee recommended to and openness.
Furthermore, the Group women from our senior management team recognises the importance of diversity at the Board that  to serve as NonExecutive Directors on other take over as Chairman of the all levels of the Company as well as on company boards.
We believe that the Boards perspective The Committee engaged in a planned and approach is greatly enhanced through succession process to appoint JamiePike gender, age and cultural diversity and it is as an independent NonExecutive Director our policy to consider overall Board balance and Senior Independent Director, with and diversity when appointing new Directors.
the appointment being approved by As illustrated on page 59, the diverse range shareholders at our 2014 AGM.
and nationalities of our Board is particularly Korn Ferry, who do not have any other relevant given the broad international reach connection with the Company, assisted with of the Group.
the appointments of Nick Anderson and Jamie Pike.
We are committed to a target of a minimum of 25% women on our Board as We have given increased focus to leadership opportunities arise.
This is a key element of development through robust succession our Board succession plan and therefore planning and a strengthened performance we are confident that this target can be management culture.
We seek to ensure achieved.
We ensure that, when vacancies that we have a highperforming workforce arise, women candidates for Board positions and that we better identify tomorrows are actively encouraged as part of the leaders.
We have a management recruitment process.
Board appointments development plan for those individuals are, in the final analysis, made on merit.
demonstrating high potential fulfilled through Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 4.
