Governance Audit Committee The transition to Deloitte LLP as the Groups auditor proceeded seamlessly and, on the back of this change, we now regularly assess the auditors effectiveness which we will use as the basis for reporting to shareholders.
Clive Watson Chairman, Audit Committee Membership and attendance Committee member Attendance Number of meetings 3 C. G. Watson 3 1 G. R. Bullock 0 2 J. Pike 1 K. Rajagopal 3 G. E. Schoolenberg 3 1 Retired 20th May 2014.
How the Committee spent Role of the Committee its time during the year The key responsibility of the Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting and internal controls.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee are set out in detail on the Group's website, www.
com, under the Governance section.
Summary of the key Committee activities in 2014 Finance and tax reviews 20% Financial statements Corporate governance 15% Auditor effectiveness and audit process External audit 15% Human rights Internal audit 15% Restructure of finance team Results review 15% Internal audit Read more Risk management and controls 15% on pages 6769 Information security 5% 66 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Matters considered In 2014, the following matters were considered by the Committee and, where applicable, by the Board or other Committees: Global competition and markets Return of capital to shareholders Share plans and similar arrangements Reprioritisation of principal risks Acquisitions disposals Operating company reviews Annual forward plan Audit tender and appointment of Anti-bribery and corruption DeloitteLLP external audit process has been assessed Review of 2014 Information security by audit committees, the Committee The Committee met three times in 2014.
Whilst the Group does not consider that revised its Terms of Reference to include an it is a high risk for information theft and Both the internal and external auditors attend assessment of external audit effectiveness.
assesses itself as a low value opportunity for its meetings and have direct access to the Significantly, the Committee has changed cyberattack, it recognises that cybercrime Committee Chairman.
its processes so that external audit is a growing threat to all businesses and is The Committee reviews the effectiveness effectiveness is now regarded as an taking the appropriate measures to remain of the internal audit and tracks the findings ongoing matter.
As a result of an increased focus in and the responsiveness of management to this area a small number of attacks, primarily The effectiveness of the independent any issues identified.
As a safeguard, the in countries where cybercrime is more external audit was assessed by the Committee holds separate meetings with common, were detected and prevented Committee following a review from all the external and internal auditors, without before being able to affect the security of our audited operating units, the Group Finance management present, to discuss their systems during the year.
team and feedback from Directors and respective areas and any issues arising from senior management.
The assessment Appropriate measures are in place across their audits.
included a questionnaire covering audit the Group in this area and include: During the year the Committee received quality and client service.
Identification of information assets at risk reports from external and internal auditors Further, in anticipation of forthcoming to ensure relevant protection is in place on the major findings of their work and the EU legislation and responding to progress of management followup by way Antivirus software, provided by thirdparty recommendations from shareholders, the of management reports.
experts, regularly updated to detect and Committee has adopted a cap on nonaudit prevent attack infection of our systems by The Committee received assurance on fees paid to the external auditor of 70% of unwanted and potentially malicious code going concern, pension valuation and the average of audit fees charged in the risk management.
Email filtering, provided by thirdparty last three years.
The Committee noted that experts, to reduce the risk of software nonaudit fees have historically been well The Group has complied with the provisions attacks below this cap.
of the Competition & Market Authority CMA Order issued by the CMA in Cybersecurity testing to assess our Restructure of finance team September 2014. systems and help provide solutions to prevent possible future attack.
The testing, In light of the increasing complexity and size carried out by the Commercial Arm Auditor of the Groups business, the Finance Director of the Government Communications undertook a review of the finance function.
Following shareholder approval at the Headquarters, covers threat modelling The new organisation equips the Group for 2014 AGM, Deloitte LLP was appointed and vulnerability analysis.
A report is the future in terms of financial skills, resource as the Companys external auditor as of provided covering areas such as poor and technology.
We explained the tender and password control, poor configuration of and approved the changes.
appointment process relating to Deloittes software or hardware, and the strength appointment in full in the 2013 Annual of defences in place such as anti Internal audit Report and Accounts.
This appointment will virus software and security patching.
be subject to ongoing monitoring and will The Committee focused on the plan of work Any identified risks are addressed and a run for a maximum period of 10 years before for the internal audit team and scrutinised retest performed to ensure the issues being tendered.
the internal audit report to ensure any have been fully resolved deficiencies in operations were remedied.
Responding to recent amendments to the The internal audit process is explained on UK Corporate Governance Code2012 page 73.
Code that focus attention on the robustness of the audit process and how the Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 4.
Strategic report Governance Audit Committee continued A single third party, who is Government The Committee also considered the iv Pensions and Ministry of Defence certified, to appropriateness of recognition of deferred There are judgements made in selecting provide, monitor, and manage our global tax assets, including those relating to appropriate assumptions in valuing the network, in line with industry best practice brought forward tax losses in the UK as a Group's defined benefit pension obligations, result of accelerated pension payments, Information security audits and an including discount ratios, mortality, inflation noting that such payments ceased from Information Systems risk register to and salary increases.
The Committee reviewed, manage, mitigate and prevent risks considered reports by the Company, and is comfortable with, the forecasts including that from independent external Processes and procedures to prevent and assumptions supporting utilisation of advisers and is comfortable that the key incidents affecting our information systems these losses.
and to continuously improve our policies ii The carrying value of goodwill and procedures.
v E nsuring the Annual Report and The Committee focused on the carrying Accounts is fair, balanced and In addition an ongoing programme of value of goodwill, including the sensitivity understandable education for key business leaders and analysis and agreed with the conclusion The Committee carried out a full assessment Information Systems staff in prevention, reached that no impairments were required, and review to ensure the new more exacting detection and control of cyberattacks has other than in relation to the goodwill standard was satisfied.
carried in respect of the Group's Associate vi Other judgements in the financial Significant issues in relation Company, Spirax Marshall, in India.
statements The Committee agreed with the conclusion to the financial statements Provisions and acquisitions were addressed.
that in this case the goodwill should be During the year the Committee considered impaired to nil value reflecting the impending After reviewing the presentations and reports significant issues in relation to the Groups sale of this business.
from management and consulting with the financial statements and disclosures iii Inventories auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the relating to: financial statements appropriately address These are judgements required in assessing i Taxation the critical judgements and key estimates, the proportion and value of slowmoving There is judgement involved in the estimation both in respect of the amounts reported inventory that should be written down of the Groups tax charge, in assessing the and the disclosures.
The Committee is also in value.
The value of inventory was risk of successful challenge by local tax satisfied that the significant assumptions considered by the Committee to ensure authorities and the recoverability of deferred used for determining the value of assets and that the accounting policy had been tax assets.
The Committee considered liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, consistently applied.
reports by the Company, including those challenged and are sufficiently robust.
relating to transfer pricing arrangements.
Whistle-blowing The Group is committed to promoting a safe and effective culture for employees to raise genuine concerns.
To this end, and as a matter of best practice, in 2014 the Committee reviewed all whistleblowing cases that had occurred over the previous three years, together with actions taken, and refreshed the Whistleblowing Policy.
The Committee also oversaw the implementation of a multilingual whistleblowing helpline to ensure that employees can freely access an independent third party.
68 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Comprehensive guidance for contributors Review of financial Fair, balanced and at operational level statements understandable report A verification process dealing with the andaccounts During 2014 the Committee considered factual content of the reports many components of business performance One of the key governance requirements is in order to ensure it has a full understanding Comprehensive reviews undertaken at for the Annual Report and Accounts to be of the operations of the Group.
different levels in the Group that aim to fair, balanced and understandable.
ensure consistency and overall balance The coordination and review of the Key considerations made by the Groupwide input into the Annual Report Committee include: Comprehensive review by the senior and Accounts is a significant exercise management team.
Determining the position adopted in key performed within an exacting time frame, The Directors statement on a fair, balanced judgement areas including pensions, which runs alongside the formal audit provisions, goodwill impairment and and understandable Annual Report and process undertaken by the external auditor.
Accounts is set out on page 62. acquisitions To ensure the Annual Report and Accounts Risk areas set out in the Risk The Committee also reviewed a is fair, balanced and understandable, the benchmarking exercise of the Companys Management Committee report Committee adopted a process of assessing 2013 Annual Report and Accounts against a Receipt of regular strategy reports from the consistency of the risks and judgements, sample of 50 FTSE 350 companies, which the Group Chief Executive and operational reviewed the Board minutes to ensure issues produced a number of recommendations reports from the Divisional Directors of significance were given prominence to improve this years Annual Report and and arrived at a position where initially the Requesting members of management to Accounts: separate approval of the Strategic Committee and then the Board are satisfied attend Committee meetings to provide report: explanation of management of with the overall fairness, balance and clarity updates on operational and strategic human rights in the supply chain: enhanced of the document which is underpinned by matters disclosure on audit effectiveness.
the following: Reviews of the budget and operational plan Review of information security.
Through these processes and its monitoring of the effectiveness of controls, internal audit and risk management, the Committee is able to maintain a good understanding of business performance, key areas of judgement and decisionmaking processes within the Group.
Committee plans for 2015 Human rights in the supply chain Financial statements In 2014, the Group made a renewed commitment to check and satisfy itself that proper procedures for compliance with health and Effectiveness assessment safety requirements and adherence to the Groups Human Rights Ongoing monitoring of risks Policy are present in its supply chain.
The new Group Environment, Review opinion and management Health and Safety Executive will, in the future, ensure compliance by all suppliers with the Spirax Sarco Supplier Code, which sets actions.
out the nonnegotiable minimum standards that we expect our suppliers and their subtier suppliers to respect and to adhere to when conducting business with the Company.
The Code is written to international standards such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 4.
