Governance Risk Management Committee We seek to identify, manage and mitigate risks to protect our business.
Nick Anderson Chairman, Risk Management Committee Membership and attendance Committee member Attendance Number of meetings 2 N. J. Anderson 2 D. J. Meredith 2 N. H. Daws 2 J. L. Whalen 2 The following executives are also members of the Committee: Divisional Director, Americas Alberto Grandi, Divisional Director, Asia Pacific Klaus Rmler, Group Human Resources Director Frank Richardson, Steam Finance Director Byron Thomas, Group Supply Chain Director Ian Farnworth and General Counsel and Company Secretary Andy Robson.
How the Committee spent itstime during the year Role of the Committee The Committee ensures that the Group has risk management policies and procedures covering project governance, sanctions and embargoes, human rights, business continuity and business management.
The Committee is responsible for the management and control of significant risks affecting the Group.
Risk management framework 20% Antibribery 15% Summary of the key Committee activities in 2014 Group policies 15% Internal controls 15% Group risk register and principal risks review Sanctions and embargo compliance 15% Scenario planning Business continuity 10% Sanctions Competition compliance 10% Global insurance programme Historical review Read more on pages 7374 72 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Responsibilities To identify and understand To assess and transfer or To accept and manage within To establish the authority the risks facing the Group avoid those risks which are the business those risks levels within the Group, by beyond our appetite for risk which our employees have consideration of materiality, the skills and expertise to at which decisions on understand and leverage acceptance and mitigation ofthese risks are taken Our approach and appetite Internal controls Internal audit for risk The Board has overall responsibility for The Board has an established internal audit the system of internal controls and for function which allows each of the Group Our aim is to continue to build a sustainable reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of operating companies to be audited at business through consistent, profitable management is to implement Board policies least every three years and those judged growth and to provide value to our customers on risk and control.
to be in higher risk territories are audited and shareholders.
value is the reward for taking acceptable There is an ongoing review process for risks.
The effective understanding and identifying and managing risks faced All businesses acquired by the Group are management of risk is fundamental to the by the Group which has been in place subject to internal audit within one year longterm success of the Group.
from 2013 and up to the date of the from the date of acquisition.
Internal audit Annual Report and Accounts.
The review resource is supplemented by experienced, The risk review process covers and assesses the effectiveness qualified accounting staff from principal of all material controls, including financial, Group operating companies and a We have adopted an integrated approach operational and compliance controls and professional auditing firm, BDO International.
to our risk management, independent risk management systems.
This ensures Reports are made to the Audit Committee assurance and internal controls to ensure that proper accounting records have been and the Board as a whole.
Whilst there were greater linkage across our review and maintained, financial information used within some areas for local improvement identified assessment of risk.
Internal controls and the business is reliable and the consolidated in the internal audit reports, no significant risk management are designed to limit accounts preparation and financial reporting matters were raised in the reports made in the chance of failure to achieve corporate process comply with all relevant regulatory the operating companies audited during objectives.
Independent assurance is reporting requirements.
provided by the external auditor and internal controls is designed to manage, internal audit.
As explained by the Chairman, in his rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to introduction to Governance on pages The Committee has accountability for achieve the business objectives.
58 and 59, we have built on our strong overseeing the risk management processes The Board believes from its annual reviews anticorruption culture and our AntiBribery and procedures, works with the Audit that the system of internal controls is and Corruption Policy, which includes Committee and reports to the Board on the embedded in the business and regular specific policies and a comprehensive risks facing the Group.
review allows for assessment of new and training programme called antibribery@ The Committee also monitors the mitigating changing risks in the Groups business.
The programme, which is available actions put in place by the relevant divisions in 14 different languages, was successfully In pursuing these objectives, internal and Group companies to address the rolled out across the entire Group in 2013 controls can provide only reasonable and identified risks.
and 2014, resulting in over 3,500 employees not absolute assurance against material having participated.
We also ensure that At a local level, each operating company is misstatement or loss.
all relevant new appointees undertake the required to undertake a formal review of the As required by the UK Listing Authority, the training.
The training will be refreshed on a risks which impact on its business at least Group has complied throughout the year biennial basis.
The Group Legal function once a year.
The reviews are consolidated and up to the date of the Annual Report also makes facetoface presentations into Groupwide risk reports which are and Accounts with the Code provisions on throughout the Group on business ethics.
maintained and reviewed by the Committee internal controls.
The Committee has ensured compliance All operating companies are required with centrally documented control We have a robust risk management process annually to complete selfcertification procedures on such matters as capital in place through which we identify, evaluate questionnaires regarding compliance with expenditure, information and technology and manage the principal risks that could the policies, procedures and minimum security and legal and regulatory impact on the Groups performance.
requirements for an effective system of compliance.
We also followed up on The principal risks and the product of the internal controls.
compliance with our Competition Policy, 2014 review are set out on pages 28 and 29. which was introduced in 2012, to ensure the Selfcertification is given by both the General Group conducts its business in accordance Manager and the Finance Manager of with the competition laws of all the countries each operation.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 4.
Strategic report Governance Risk Management Committee continued Important developments in the year Our risk management approach is subject to continuous review and updating to take account of new and developing issues which might impact our business objectives.
The following actions have been undertaken during the year to address significant developments: Group risk register review Principal risks Historical review We eliminated some of the lower impact We reviewed to determine whether We carried out a historical review to likelihood risks on the risk register and the risks themselves have changed determine if the principal risks and risks reduced the number of risks from 21 to during 2014, and for the purposes of on the risk register relate to the events that 14, to enable resources to be focused reprioritisation.
Our view of the changes actually occurred in the last three years on the most important risks.
We have are set out in the principal risks table on and if there was effective mitigation.
In the made sure that our mitigation actions page 29.
We have removed one principal main, the Committee considered that the remain robust and implemented changes risk shown in our 2013 Annual Report and predictions were correct and the risks to improve mitigation of the risks where Accounts Failure to realise acquisition were managed effectively.
The Committees analysis of objectives.
The Committee will assist the risks affecting the Group are shown the Board in complying with significant in the bubble diagram on page 28. changes to the Code's requirements on This analysis informed the determination risk management and internal controls, of the principal risks set out on page 29. effective 1stJanuary 2015.
The key change is Board monitoring throughout the year rather than an annual review.
Serious incident procedure Sanctions policy Global insurance programme We implemented a Serious Incident We updated the Sanctions Policy We reviewed and improved our global Procedure to ensure that the Group is and Guide to ensure compliance with insurance cover.
wellpositioned in responding to serious UN, USA, European and UK laws incidents which require extraordinary and regulations.
74 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
