Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Corporate Board of Directors Governance Report This Corporate Governance Report and the associated Nomination Committee and Audit and Risk Committee Reports form the Directors Report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts are cross-referenced where appropriate.
Taken together, they fulfil the combined requirements of company law, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
UK Corporate Governance Code statement of compliance At Spectris we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, both at Board level and throughout the Group.
We see this as fundamental to the effective and responsible management of the business and for the delivery of shareholder value over the long term.
Time is allocated at Board and Committee meetings to consider governance issues.
We particularly emphasise the strong relationship that exists between ethics and governance and the role of the Board in demonstrating ethical leadership.
The standards we require are set out in our Code of Business Ethics, which is communicated to all our employees and business partners.
Peter Chambr Spectris plc is subject to the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code Non-executive Director the Code, as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Appointed Authority.
The Code sets out principles and provisions relating to August 2006 the good governance of companies.
This report describes how the Committees Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Risk Company applied the principles and complied with the provisions Relevant experience of the Code during 2014.
Peter Chambr was formerly chief executive officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and prior The Board considers that it was throughout the year, and continues to that was chief operating officer of Celera Genomics Group and chief executive of Bespak plc.
to be, in full compliance with the provisions set out in the Code.
Other appointments The Company further expects to be in full compliance with the Chairman of 7TM Pharma A S and immatics biotechnologies GmbH.
He is a director of Cancer September 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code Research Technology Ltd, OneMed Sverige AB and the New Code throughout 2015 and has complied with the Imperial Innovations Group plc.
New Codes provisions, to the extent possible, in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Pages 44 to 58 of this report are intended to give shareholders a clear and comprehensive description of the Companys governance arrangements and how they operated during the year.
Compliance by the Company with each principle and provision of the Code is set out on pages 59 and 60.
Bill Seeger Non-executive Director Appointed January 2015 Committees Audit and Risk Chairman designate, Nomination, Remuneration Relevant experience Bill Seeger was formerly group finance director of GKN plc and prior to that president and CEO of the propulsion systems and special products division of GKN, having previously been CFO in the aerospace division.
He spent most of his career at TRW, latterly in senior finance roles, including as vice president, financial planning and analysis, and vice president, finance, of TRW Automotive.
Other appointments Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Smiths Group plc.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Dr John Hughes cbe John OHiggins Clive Watson Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed Appointed Appointed June 2007.
January 2006 October 2006 Committees Committees Relevant experience Nomination Chairman Nomination Clive Watson was previously chief financial officer and executive vice president for business support at Borealis.
Relevant experience Relevant experience Prior to this, he was group finance director at Thorn John Hughes was formerly executive vice president Before joining Spectris, John OHiggins worked Lighting Group and before that group finance director and chief operating officer of defence, aerospace for Honeywell in a number of management roles, Europe with Black & Decker.
Clive is a member of the and electronic systems company, Thales Group SA.
most recently as president of automation and control Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and solutions, Asia Pacific.
John began his career as a Other appointments Wales and the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
design engineer at Daimler Benz in Stuttgart.
He has Executive chairman of Telecity Group plc and nonengineering degrees from University College Dublin Other appointments executive chairman of Sepura plc and Just Eat plc.
and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Non-executive director of CSG International, Inc. a NASDAQ-listed company.
Special advisor for Other appointments Oakley Capital Corporate Finance.
Ambassador Non-executive director of Exide Technologies, for the Alzheimers Society.
Lisa Davis Russell King Ulf Quellmann Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed Appointed Appointed April 2014 October 2010 January 2015 Committees Committees Committees Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Risk Remuneration Chairman, Nomination, Audit and Risk, Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Risk Senior Independent Director Relevant experience Relevant experience Member of the Siemens AG managing board and Relevant experience Ulf Quellmann is global head of treasury at Rio Tinto plc.
chair of Siemens Corporation in the US.
Lisa Davis Russell King is chairman of Hummingbird Resources Plc.
He was previously vice president, investor relations and responsibilities include Americas, power and gas, wind He was previously chief strategy officer of Anglo media relations, and chief pension investment officer power and renewables and power generation services.
American PLC and a non-executive director of Anglo and assistant treasurer at Alcan Inc.
Prior to that he She was formerly executive vice president of strategy, Platinum Ltd.
Prior to that he spent over 20 years in held senior management positions at General Motors, portfolio and alternative energy, Shell International senior roles at ICI.
including as senior manager, capital planning, and Petroleum Company.
managing director of Vauxhall Masterhire.
Other appointments Non-executive director of Aggreko plc, Sepura plc and Interserve Plc.
John Warren Martha Wyrsch Roger Stephens Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Head of Commercial and Company Secretary Appointed Appointed March 2006 June 2012 Appointed January 1997 Committees Committees Audit and Risk Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Risk Relevant experience Roger Stephens is responsible for legal and governance Relevant experience Relevant experience matters and capital projects across the Group.
John Warren was previously group finance director Martha Wyrsch is executive vice president and general Prior to joining Spectris, Roger held commercial roles of WH Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc.
counsel of Sempra Energy, a company quoted on in the power and construction sectors, specialising in the New York Stock Exchange.
Martha was formerly Other appointments contract negotiation, litigation and claims resolution, president of Vestas Americas, a subsidiary of Vestas Non-executive director of Bovis Homes Group PLC, IP exploitation and property development.
Wind Systems A S and prior to that she was president 4imprint Group plc, Greencore Group plc Eire and and CEO of Spectra Energy Transmission.
Other appointments Director of the Cristo Rey Network, a US educational foundation, San Diego Gas and Electric Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sempra Energy, and Southern California Gas Company, a publicly traded company in the USA.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 The Board delegates specific responsibilities between 1 January and 27 February 2015, Corporate to Board committees, notably the following which the membership of these Nomination, Remuneration, and Audit and Committees was restructured, as described Governance Risk Committees.
The terms of reference in the letter from the Chairman of the for these Committees are published on Nomination Committee on page 48.
Report the Companys website and the following Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director continued additional documents are available must avoid a situation where he or she has, to shareholders on application to the or may have, a direct or indirect interest Company Secretary: that conflicts, or may conflict, with the Board composition, procedures schedule of matters reserved for decision Companys interests.
During the year, by the Board: in accordance with the powers and duties and activities during the year of Directors laid down in the Companys The Board currently comprises the responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Articles, Directors were asked to declare any Executive and the Non-executive Directors: Chairman, two Executive Directors and such conflict or potential conflict of interest seven Non-executive Directors.
The Board relations with shareholders: and to the Board, and to request the Boards has carried out a rigorous review of the authorisation of any matter which otherwise independence of its Non-executive Directors procedure for taking independent might have given rise to a conflict of interest.
Peter Chambr, Lisa Davis, Russell King, No such conflicts have been declared.
Ulf Quellmann, Bill Seeger, John Warren The table below includes all Directors who and Martha Wyrsch and considers each to Board delegation be independent in character and judgement held office at any point during the year.
S Blair, L A Davis and J C Webster held office in that none of them is, or has ever been, The Board the holder of an executive office with for part of the year only.
S Blair attended all of the Board meetings which he was eligible the Company and each continues to demonstrate the qualities of independence to attend.
L A Davis attended three of the Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk four Board meetings, the Audit and Risk in carrying out their role.
The positions Committee Committee Committee of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Committee meeting and two of the three Remuneration Committee meetings which Independent Director are held by separate individuals and, in accordance with she was eligible to attend.
She was unable to Ulf Quellmann and Bill Seeger were not attend the Nomination Committee meeting the Code, the Board has adopted written members of any Board Committee during profiles for the first two of these.
which she was eligible to attend.
J C Webster 2014 as both were appointed Non-executive attended three of the four Board meetings Directors of the Company on 1 January 2015.
The Board meets formally at regular which he was eligible to attend.
They both served on all Board Committees intervals throughout the year to develop the Companys strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2014 and business issues.
It also deals with those Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination matters reserved to it for decision, including Board Committee Committee Committee annual financial planning, the acquisition Total meetings during the year 7 6 3 3 and disposal of businesses, major capital Dr J L M Hughes cbe Chairman 6 N A N A 3 expenditure, the appointment and if necessary removal of Directors, and R J King Senior Independent Director 7 6 3 3 Board and senior management succession.
P A Chambr 7 6 3 3 Additional meetings are convened as required to consider specific topics requiring L A Davis 3 2 1 immediate decision.
Authority for operational J A Warren 7 6 3 3 decisions is delegated by the Board to senior M B Wyrsch 7 6 3 3 management at operating company level, over which the Executive Directors exercise J E OHiggins Chief Executive 7 N A N A 3 supervision.
All Directors receive detailed S Blair 2 N A N A N A progress reports one week prior to each Board meeting.
C G Watson 7 N A N A N A J C Webster 3 N A N A N A The Board of Directors Board focus Approximate percentage allocation of Board time Strategy 35.0% Business operations 25.0% Executive Directors 2 Acquisitions 25.0% Non-executive Directors 8 Financial management 7.5% Legal, risk, governance and compliance 7.5% Male Directors 8 Female Directors 2 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Board evaluation the Boards discussion of the report.
Groups existing and future strategic needs.
These are outlined in the diagram below.
This included an assessment of whether An overview of the Board evaluations the experience and knowledge of other undertaken between 2011 and 2014, The Board is engaged in a continuing review industry sectors beyond those familiar to and to be undertaken in 2015, is set out process on how it can drive significantly the Board, such as oil and gas, would be below, including whether reviews were accelerated growth.
Strategic discussions beneficial to its operation.
The Nomination internally or externally facilitated, the form are an important part of the Boards agenda Committee was asked to carry out this of those reviews, their focus and outcomes.
as it seeks to develop the Groups existing assessment and the results are contained In 2013, the Board undertook its triennial businesses and exploit new business in the following diagrams.
Any shortfall in external Board evaluation.
Therefore, for its internal required sector expertise and experience on in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
evaluation in 2014, the Board chose to will inform the recruitment brief for future The conclusion reached was that the Board focus on determining whether it had Board appointments.
was functioning well, but a number of areas the appropriate mix of skills, knowledge, for improvement were identified following experience and perspectives to serve the Board evaluation cycle Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Internal Internal External Internal Internal Process Submissions Narrative responses Facilitated by Focussed on Board Board effectiveness skills, experience behaviours survey and and focus from all Directors from each Director on Armstrong Bonham in response open-ended questions Carter.
match to strategic to a structured focussed on a number Structured interviews Narrative responses questionnaire of strategic areas objectives including with each Director, from each Director new end-user focussed on strategy, including the Groups Company Secretary, on open-ended Board structure business strategy, risk markets and Head of Internal questions focussed geographies.
and organisation, appetite, management Audit, Head of on a number of areas succession planning development and Business Ethics and including the Groups and risk management.
alignment of Governance, external strategy development, remuneration strategy Summary report audit partner and the structure of the with business strategy.
including comparative external remuneration Board, its composition, data from 2010 to One-on-one followconsultant.
up discussions with topics requiring Report presented Company Secretary.
discussion, time to to the Board in be allocated to those January 2014. topics and how Further Board the Board can discussion and actions best support the determined.
One-on-one followup discussions with Company Secretary.
Outcomes Focus on range of skills Details on page 46. and actions of Board members.
Establish continuing review process focussed on driving accelerated growth.
Develop forwardlooking metrics on the health of the Group: product vitality, customer satisfaction, talent identification, integrity health.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Corporate Governance Report continued Number of Directors with relevant Number of Directors with skills, knowledge and expertise geographical experience Manufacturing Europe 14 Financial International qualications 15 Australia and 12 New Zealand Russia 7 7 6 7 Listed 6 13 M&A company 5 14 6 3 2 7 0 7 5 0 1 3 Middle East North and 5 0 3 South-East Asia 3 6 2 2 13 6 4 Services Legal, governance 7 and risk control 6 12 14 Latin America North America 12 Commercial Internet and marketing economy B2B Africa Board and Executive team 15 in total Board and Executive team 15 in total Executive team only 7 in total Executive team only 7 in total To assist this process, each Director and Executive completed a skills Number of Directors with experience and experience self-assessment.
The outcome of these discussions of end-user market and the subsequent gap analysis was put into practice in the Semicon, telecoms succession planning referred to on page 49 of the Nomination and electronics Committee Report.
Manufacturing In planning for its 2015 evaluation, the Board considered Automotive and machine commissioning an external evaluation but determined that this building was not necessary.
An internal evaluation process will therefore be 12 followed, comprising submissions from Board members in response 7 to a structured questionnaire focussed upon significant areas 7 8 5 identified by the Board: notably, strategy development, the structure of the Board, its composition, the significant topics requiring its Pulp and 4 Aerospace paper attention, and the time to be allocated to these.
A gap analysis will 1 1 then be carried out.
The overall aim is to assist the Board in defining 4 2 1 how it can best support the Executive team in delivering the 2 6 Companys growth ambitions.
3 3 10 As part of the 2015 evaluation, a Board behaviours effectiveness 5 6 survey will also be deployed, preparatory to the process described Energy Pharmaceuticals above.
This will assist the Board in reviewing the quality and and utilities and ne chemicals quantity of its interactions in each of its principal areas of focus governance, strategy, performance management, decision-making and communication.
Academic Metals, minerals research and mining Board and Executive team 15 in total Executive team only 7 in total Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 46 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Board development and training: A summary of the presentations the Governance events: Board received at these businesses visits to operating companies investor relations is detailed below.
In addition to periodic updates to the Spectris encourages two-way communication Board on legal, accounting, regulatory A presentation was also received from with investors and has a comprehensive investor and compliance matters, Board training the President of Spectris Asia Pacific relations programme designed to assist existing and development is predominantly at the Boards December 2014 meeting.
and potential investors understand the Groups focussed on building a deep understanding business activities, strategy and prospects.
Through these meetings and the access Spectris conducts regular dialogue with given to the Groups operations and its Two meetings were held at operating institutional shareholders, including meetings staff, all Directors maintain and deepen company locations during 2014 and during investor roadshows, following the their detailed knowledge of Group announcement of the full-year and half-year encompassed a detailed review of the operations, as required for them to results and other trading updates, attendance relevant businesses.
In June, the Board visited discharge their duties.
at conferences hosted by brokers, and frequent Malvern Instruments in Malvern, UK, and ad-hoc meetings outside of such road shows in October the Board visited Brel & Kjr and or conferences.
Meetings and discussions Sound & Vibration in Naerum, Denmark.
with investors are normally undertaken by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Head of Corporate Affairs, although Board development visit to Board development visit to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director Malvern Instruments Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration and Non-executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
The Board toured the Malvern Instruments The Board toured the Brel & Kjr Sound & Malvern facility, met senior staff and received Vibration BKSV facility in Naerum, Denmark, During the year, 125 face-to-face meetings a presentation from the Managing Director met senior staff and received a presentation and telephone conference calls were held of Malvern.
from the Managing Director of BKSV.
with institutional investors in the UK, North America and Europe, covering over 65% of Recent acquisitions plus new products emerging BKSV operates a dual sales channel focussing the shareholder base.
In addition, there were from the in-house development team in the US on products and solutions.
It has a long-term over 100 face-to-face meetings and telephone have significantly enhanced Malverns presence strategy to move from being product-centric conference calls with potential investors.
in the life science segment.
New, segregated, sales to being solutions-centric, thereby adding channels are being developed to focus on these additional value to its customers development Shareholders are invited to attend the applications, in addition to the traditional industrial and production processes.
Companys Annual General Meeting and customer base.
The new technologies will also have the opportunity to meet and question To further that strategy, BKSV is expanding its have industrial applications, particularly in relation the Chairman and Board members.
The results offering beyond the research and development to nano materials.
of proxy votes are available at the Annual laboratory and focussing on production, sales, General Meeting and these are published The combination of technology acquisition and support, services and marketing.
It is seeking on the Groups website at www.
com in-house development is considered of particular top-line expansion with increased efficiency.
The Annual Report benefit to the business.
New growth vectors include cloud-based and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who data management and CAE computer aided elect to receive a copy and is also available engineering integration.
on the Companys website, which additionally contains information on the Groups activities and published results and presentations.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
