Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S t r en g t h enin g o ur c ap ab i l iti e s Services contracts have become more complex as customers and their advisers seek to procure effectively and allocate risks much more comprehensively: particularly where these are perceived as being business critical.
We have seen a move in larger IT outsourcing engagements towards tower-based multisourcing arrangements where multiple suppliers are required to work collaboratively under a complex network of similar contracts.
A number of recent engagements have allowed us to gain valuable knowledge and experience with our clients.
We have invested Barry Hoffman considerable time and effort in ensuring Mark Slaven Group HR Director sufficient levels of expert resource to keep Group Chief Information Officer pace with this evolving environment.
Our continuing success The certified Group is based on hiring and ISMS assures high retaining high quality security standards for people.
We strive to Computacenter services, make Computacenter alignment with international an exciting place to work.
norms and industry best practice, as well as the Our people authenticity, availability, People, like our services and innovations, are a major source of competitive advantage.
integrity and confidentiality It is for this reason that we are always actively of information.
As a recognised Fraser Phillips Investors in people employer we play an Head of Group Legal & Contracting IT security and service continuity are core energetic role in developing our people to truly facets of service delivery to our customers.
enable them to go from strength to strength.
Therefore, we run and continuously develop We facilitate good longour Information Security Management System.
We are proud of the fact that our people are term relationships with Computacenters ITSCM provides planning, at the heart of what we do and therefore value customers and partners by coordination and development of security the skills and experience they bring to work relevant scenarios for our customers.
We have a clear mission contracting in a considered to enable users and their business and we and open manner, setting Our datacenter facilities deliver to the highest set great store by our values.
We have a culture standards of physical and technical security clear expectations and that embraces feedback and continuous and availability, and are accredited against the improvement centred around our core managing against these.
Our datacenter and behaviours, for the benefit of our customers.
service designs offer complete flexibility for our We foster an environment that allows people Our infrastructure customers in the choice of their network provider.
to grow, and continue to advance their abilities Computacenter operates technology infrastructure as well as executing our strategy.
for our own global workforce as well as for In order to further strengthen our Managed our customers, built to highly secured service Services business, we are continually enhancing Our relationships standards.
We deliver industry-leading services our infrastructure operations capabilities.
Today, As we grow our services business in line with with an embedded shift-left philosophy using Computacenters centres of excellence which our strategic objectives we continue to focus automated ITIL based processes.
Synchronising run 24 7 for IT operations, for our managed upon the need to balance acceptable risk, individual customer needs with highly service customers our Operational Command with the need to maintain our established standardised, modular service models allows Centres are located in the UK, Germany, reputation as a flexible, collaborative and tailored, high service quality and additionally South Africa, Malaysia and India.
substantial cost efficiency 24 7, worldwide 7 and using our customers native languages.
