Nomination Committee report Membership and attendance The members of the Nomination Committee are the independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
However, input from all the Directors is sought by the Committee and it involves the Board as a whole when performing its key responsibilities.
Details of the membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the year are provided opposite.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
Main activities of the Committee during 2014 The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during 2014 and its work included the following: Undertaking the process of identifying and nominating an additional Board member, following which Minnow Powell was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2015.
The Committee engaged the executive search and recruitment firm Russell Reynolds for this process which, aside from this type of engagement, has no other connection with the Company.
Reviewing the performance of the Directors who stood for re-election at the 2014 AGM and recommending their re-election.
Considering the composition of the Board through a review of the Greg Lock skills, knowledge and experience of the individual members and Nomination Committee Chairman concluding on the appropriateness of the Boards combined ability to adequately challenge and support the Company.
It should be noted that, whilst Minnow Powell was not a member Attendance Member Role record of the Nomination Committee during the reporting period, he has been appointed as a member of each Committee of the Board with 1.
G reg Lock Non-Executive Chairman effect from 1 January 2015, and as explained within the Corporate Chairman of the Board 3 3 Governance Report on page 49, he will become Chairman of the 2.
John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 3 3 Companys Audit Committee with effect from 1 April 2015.
Brian McBride Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 3 3 4.
Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 3 3 Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee Greg Lock The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to assist Chairman of the Nomination Committee the Board with: 11 March 2015 The search and selection process for the appointment of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Board.
Reviewing whether to recommend a Director for re-election at the AGM.
Reviewing the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors.
Determining whether the Boards composition remains appropriate, with particular regard to its size, balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and whether these enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Succession planning of the Board, and the induction, training and development of the Directors.
Identifying and nominating Board candidates to fill any Board candidacy, and ensuring that there is a formal, thorough and transparent procedure in place for the appointment of any new Directors to the Board.
Reviewing the membership of its Committees.
The full terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available on our website, www.
