Audit Committee report The Committee also continues to support the Board in discharging its responsibilities for the Groups systems of Internal Control and Risk Management.
This year our operations in France have been challenged by poor operational performance, uncertainties around restructuring and the transfer of certain back-office finance functions to the Groups new Shared Services Centre in Budapest, Hungary.
We have received reports from Management and Internal Audit on the issues and plans for improvement.
The level of outstanding French receivables has been a particular area of focus for the Committee.
During the year, the Committee also led a formal process to tender the statutory audit for the Group, following which it recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed in this role with effect from the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting, subject to approval by shareholders.
I will step down from my role as Chairman of the Committee with effect from 1 April 2015, to be succeeded by Minnow Powell.
Minnow joined the Board and the Audit Committee at the beginning of the year, and we have been working closely together to achieve a smooth transfer of responsibilities.
John Ormerod We continually seek to improve communication with shareholders Audit Committee Chairman in respect of the work of the Committee, and we welcome feedback on our work and this report.
J ohn Ormerod Chairman Non-Executive Director 6 6 2.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 6 6 John Ormerod 3.
Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 5 6 Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 March 2015 Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 December 2014, as set out from pages 58 to 61.
During 2014, the Committee has continued to focus on overseeing the integrity of financial information published by the Company.
We have done this through engagement with our auditors Ernst & Young LLP, reviewing their planning and scope of work and reviewing their findings and conclusions.
We have also challenged Managements judgements over key accounting issues and reviewed the fairness of presentation of financial information.
58 Audit Committee report Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Exceptional items and estimation of provisions The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the review The Committee considered both the nature and quantum of those of financial information released by the Group.
The Committee is items disclosed as exceptional in the Companys 2014 Accounts.
required to review, challenge, and report to the Board on the The principal item recognised related to reorganisation costs incurred appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and the key within the Groups French business.
The Committee reviewed the judgements made in the preparation of financial information, and to nature and estimates of these costs with Management and received assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of its financial statements.
input from the external auditors to confirm that such accounting It also supports the Board in its role of overseeing the Groups Risk treatment is consistent with accounting standards, and additionally Management processes and maintaining a strong Group internal that the estimates made were reasonable.
The Committee concluded control environment.
The full responsibilities of the Committee that the classification of the item as exceptional was also in line with can be found within its Terms of Reference on our website, at the Groups accounting policy, and was appropriately disclosed in www.
Committee membership, meetings and performance Following the identification, in 2013, of three of the Groups All members of the Audit Committee are Independent Non-Executive long-term service contracts as likely to be loss-making, the Company Directors of the Company, and are considered by the Board to have recorded a provision of 10.7 million for projected losses on these a wide range of business and financial experience to enable the three contracts over the remainder of their lifetimes.
During 2014, Committee to perform effectively.
The Board considers the Chairman the Committee has continued to monitor the progress of these of the Audit Committee to have recent and relevant financial contracts and the utilisation of the provision.
As a result of improved experience for the purposes of the Code.
The Committee met six performance, Management was able to reassess the projected times during the course of 2014.
Meetings are attended by members outturn on these contracts.
As they have progressed, and material and, at the Committees invitation, the Chairman of the Board, Chief uncertainties around levels of resource required to sustain improved Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, Group Head of Internal performance were resolved, it was proposed that 1.5 million of the Audit and Risk and representatives of the external auditor.
Others provision taken be released as an exceptional item in the Companys are invited to the Committees meetings to participate in topics 2014 Accounts.
The Committee reviewed the judgements made by relevant to their responsibilities or experience.
The Committee also Management in this area, and agreed that the proposed quantum meets privately, at least on an annual basis, with the external auditor of release was appropriate.
and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk.
The Chairman of the Committee has regular informal discussions with the Group Finance Impairment Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk and our external As a result of the ongoing poor financial performance by the Groups auditor.
He also receives the reports of the Internal Audit department French business during 2014, the Committee considered whether any as they are issued, and additionally receives feedback on the further impairment of the non-current assets in the French business preparation and audit of accounts as that work progresses and was required, in addition to the charge taken in 2013.
In this case, the as any significant judgements arise.
judgements in relation to asset impairment are based predominantly on assumptions relating to the future performance of the French Main activities and significant areas considered business.
The Committee reviewed with Management the key The Committee reviewed the key areas of judgement made in the assumptions concerning future performance of the French business preparation of the Groups financial information in 2014, and these and the cost of capital, and reviewed sensitivity analysis on the included the following: impact of changes in key variables.
Following this process, and having received additional input from the external auditor, the Committee Contract accounting and revenue recognition agreed with the recommendation of Management that no further The Committee considered the Groups revenue recognition and impairment was currently required to the remaining non-current contract accounting policies to ensure that they remained appropriate assets within the French business.
and that the Groups internal controls were operating effectively in this area.
The Company has several large complex contracts which Going concern require judgements to be made by Management, in particular around The application of the going concern basis remains a focus of the recognition of revenue accruing from separate component parts the Committee.
Whilst the Group remains highly-cash generative, of these contracts.
In 2014, the Committee particularly focused on the application of this basis at the end of the year was discussed the accounting treatments for a major contract which terminates early by the Committee in the context of the recent sale of the Companys in 2015, where there are transfers of staff and other arrangements operating subsidiary, R. D. Trading Limited, and the subsequent to be recognised on termination.
Following a review of reports and proposal for the return of 100 million to shareholders.
The review presentations, including from Management and the external auditor, by the Committee of information prepared by Management supported the Committee has concluded that judgements by Management were the Boards decision to seek a three-year extension to the existing reasonable and the accounting treatment appropriate.
committed borrowing facility, effective from the date of announcement of the cash return by the Company, to provide significant financial Supplier discounts and rebates headroom to meet unexpected cash requirements.
The end of year The Committee also reviewed the process by which the Company financial projections were updated to provide the sale of R. D. Trading recognised supplier rebates, which principally related to the Limited and the return of cash transaction, and underpinned the view achievement of sales volume targets by the Company or in connection of the Committee that the 2014 financial statements were appropriately with specific contract bids.
Following this review, the Committee was prepared on a going concern basis.
satisfied that the process implemented by the Company was both reasonable and in line with accounting standards.
59 Deferred tax assets Internal audit and controls The Company continues to recognise certain deferred tax assets, The Board accepts and acknowledges its overall responsibility resulting from the recognition of accumulated losses within its for the Groups systems of Internal Control and Risk Management.
The level of deferred tax asset recognition On behalf of the Board, during the year, the Committee monitored in relation to accumulated tax losses is underpinned by a range the Groups risk management and reviewed the effectiveness of judgements, and is substantially based on the future forecasted of its internal control procedures.
A number of detailed areas for profitability of these entities.
The Committee has therefore challenged improvement are routinely identified and actions implemented the appropriateness of judgements applied in order to estimate as a result of the review of internal controls by Management and the asset to be recognised in relation to deferred tax positions the internal audit function.
A particular area of focus for the and agreed with Managements judgements.
Committee in 2014 has been the Groups operations in France where performance has been poor and significant changes in people Outstanding levels of French receivables and and processes have followed the implementation of the Social Plan transition to Group shared services centre and transfer of processes to the SSC.
This has had an adverse effect The Groups French business continues to have a material level on the control environment which has been particularly evident in of overdue receivables against which an increased level of provision respect of financial controls over debtors.
The Committee continues was recognised in 2014.
The Committee requested that both to monitor implementation of agreed improvements.
Management, and subsequently the external auditor, carry out a detailed review of the receivables and their likely recoverability.
Risk management The Committee reviewed the results of this work and agreed that As disclosed in the Our Risk Management Approach section on the level of provision recommended by Management was appropriate.
pages 18 to 21 of this report, the Group Risk Committee GRC meets on a quarterly basis to review the key risks facing the business.
As well as considering the financial reporting issues relating These are identified and assessed as to their likelihood and impact to the overdue French debtors, the Committee has monitored within the Groups Heat Risk Map, and are then reviewed in Managements French receivables recovery plan throughout the conjunction with accompanying risk mitigation plans.
A key part of this plan has been the establishment reviews the Groups key risks and sets the Groups risk appetite.
of a shared services accounting centre in Hungary SSC, which To assist the Board, the Committee monitors the risk management has progressively assumed responsibility for processing the Groups processes receiving detailed presentations from Management accounting transactions.
The Committee received reports from relating to certain key risks and reports from internal audit.
the Group Internal Audit Department on the transfer of the French Accounts Payable and Receivables functions to the SSC.
The Effectiveness of Internal Audit Committee continues to monitor recent transfers of financial The Committee continues to oversee the internal audit function.
support activity from the Groups UK and German businesses.
The Committee received an update from the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk at each meeting during the year on current audit Whistleblowing activities, and any associated issues resulting from the completion Each Group entity has a Whistleblowing policy that enables staff, of such work.
The Chairman of the Committee additionally meets in confidence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties in with the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk on a number of financial and other matters.
The Audit Committee receives an update occasions throughout the year, through which he is continually from the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk at each meeting updated on the activities of the internal audit function, and receives on Whistleblowing and during the year has reviewed and approved a frequent assessment as to whether the function is adequately the process by which the Company deals with any Whistleblowing resourced.
The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit incidents received by it.
This process includes an initial review by Committee and kept under review to reflect the changing needs the Groups General Counsel to establish, if required, the terms of of the business and to ensure that new and emerging business any subsequent investigation by the Company into whether relevant risks are appropriately considered within it.
A core function of laws or Company procedures have been breached as a result of the Group Internal Audit Department relates to reviewing and a Whistleblowing report received.
providing assurance to the Committee regarding the effectiveness of governance controls, and bid management and execution.
As the Annual report fair, balanced and understandable nature of Services work undertaken by the Company continues to statement mature and evolve, the role of the function will be formally reviewed At the request of the Board, the Committee assisted with oversight during the 2015 financial year.
of the procedures performed to provide the formal assurance now required from the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, Other activity balanced and understandable and that it provides the information The Committee reviewed its own terms of reference, the internal necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, audit charter, and received a report from an independent consulting business model and strategy.
The Groups procedures include clear organisation on the Companys Anti-bribery and Corruption Policies guidance issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent approach and Procedures.
Although there were matters, processes and records and a formal review process at all levels to ensure that the Annual that can be improved, the existing processes and controls were Report is factually correct and includes all relevant information.
confirmed as fit for purpose, given the risk profile of the Company The Committee advised the Board that appropriate procedures in this area.
Management is implementing the recommendations had been applied.
made during the year, and a review of the effectiveness of implementation will take place during the 2015 financial year.
External audit The Audit Committee is required to oversee the Companys relationship with its external auditor, and to make recommendations in relation to the Board concerning the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
60 Audit Committee report continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Appointment of external auditor following Auditor independence tender process The Committee places considerable importance on ensuring During 2014, the Committee led a tender process for the statutory the continuing independence of the Groups auditors.
This topic audit appointment for the Group.
Prior to launching the tender, is reviewed at least annually with the auditors, who also have the Committee contacted a number of major shareholders to invite procedures in place, to ensure they bring to bear appropriate their input, albeit there was only a limited but constructive response.
scepticism and avoid conflicts of interest.
Following a process in which the Committee received a written submission and presentation from the participants, the Committee In support of maintaining the auditors independence, the recommended that KPMG LLP be appointed as the new auditor Committee has established a policy in relation to the scope and of the Company for approval by shareholders at, and with effect extent of provision of non-audit services by the Groups auditors from, the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting.
which is summarised on this page.
During the year, the Committee monitored compliance with this policy by approving the audit fee Ernst & Young LLP EY will retire at the Companys 2015 Annual and monitoring the level of non-audit work provided by the external General Meeting.
EY has fulfilled this role since the Companys auditor, resulting in non-audit fees being 19.2 per cent of the EY flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
The Committee overall audit fee during 2014.
This related primarily to additional is grateful for their advice and support over many years.
tax, compliance and consulting work done during the year.
The Committee deemed it appropriate to use the Companys auditors Effectiveness of the external audit process for this work due to their existing and detailed prior knowledge The Committee reviews the effectiveness and quality of the external and understanding of the business.
audit process by: Reviewing the audit plan and monitoring changes in response Summary of policy for engagement of auditors to new issues or changing circumstances: to undertake non-audit work Receiving reports on the results of the audit work performed: The external auditor is appointed primarily to report on the annual A post-audit review: and and interim financial statements.
The Committee places a high Considering the report of the Financial Reporting Councils priority on ensuring that this independent role of reporting to Audit Quality Review Team on EY.
Any response provided by shareholders is not compromised.
The Committee recognises, EY is reviewed by the Committee.
however, that there are occasions when the auditors are best placed to undertake other accounting, advisory and consultancy work in The Committee receives and reviews the annual audit plan from view of their knowledge of the Companys business, confidentiality EY identifying the key risks to the business which will be subject and cost considerations.
The Committee has therefore established to their audit process.
In 2014, these risks included contract procedures to ensure that any non-audit work is only undertaken by accounting and revenue recognition, presentation of exceptional auditors where there is no risk of compromise to their independence.
items, impairment and the going concern basis of accounting, due to the inherent management judgements required in, or as a result To this end, the Committee has formally defined areas of work for of, these issues.
At this planning stage, the Committee agrees with which the auditors will be prohibited from engagement and areas the auditors their assessment of materiality and overall scope of where, subject to following the stipulated processes of authorisation work and approves the audit fee arrangements.
The Committee and where appropriate, competitive tendering, the auditors may additionally assesses the quality of the audit process through be engaged.
The former areas of work include the preparation of the audit reporting from EY in relation to such issues.
accounting records and financial statements which will ultimately be subject to audit.
Currently, the latter areas of potential engagement The Committee further monitored the effectiveness of the may include acquisition due diligence and tax compliance and advice.
external audit process by means of a detailed questionnaire which In all cases significant non-audit engagements are subject to prior is completed by key stakeholders and relevant internal management.
approval by the Audit Committee or if approval is required between The results of the questionnaire were then discussed as a specific meetings, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Other than in agenda item at the Committee meeting immediately following the exceptional circumstances, the Committee does not expect the value completion of the questionnaire process, and any actions requested of non-audit services to exceed the aggregate value of audit and audit by the Committee to enhance effectiveness were followed up and related services in any financial year.
The Committee additionally receives and reviews reports from EY on their quality controls and independence policies.
