Corporate Governance report Letter from the Chairman of the Company At Computacenter, we are committed to ensuring high standards of Corporate Governance across our business to enhance the performance of the Group.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder Commitment to Corporate Governance The Board of Computacenter believes that long-term shareholder value creation is supported by high-quality corporate governance.
We are Board Committees committed to ensuring high standards of corporate governance across our business to enhance the performance of the Group.
The Board is therefore committed to the principles of good governance and supports the best practice guidelines contained within the 2012 UK Corporate Board Governance Code the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and can be found at www.
The Company is aware of the recently released 2014 Corporate Governance Code the Revised Code, and will ensure that it responds in an appropriate manner to the additional requirements of the Revised Code.
This Corporate Governance report outlines and explains the Companys governance policies and practices, and sets out how the principles of the Code have been applied during the year ended 31December 2014.
I am able to confirm to you that, except where indicated and fully explained within this report, the Company has complied with each of the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee We have additionally, for ease of reference, prepared a separate report by reference to each of the Main Principles and separate provisions of the Code explaining how the Company has complied with each of these.
This report can be found at www.
48 Corporate Governance report Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board composition Board committees It is important for me to ensure that the Board has the right As it is entitled to do under the Companys Articles of Association, the composition.
This includes having the right balance of skills and Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Board Committees to experience, maintaining a strong level of independence and objectivity enable it to carry out its functions effectively.
A diagram of the Board and ensuring that all Directors have a good knowledge of the Group governance structure is set out on page 48. and the context in which it operates.
The changes made to the Board since the 2013 financial year-end, and the process undertaken to Board visits facilitate those changes, have been described and explained within During the year, the Board held meetings at the offices of the Companys the Nomination Committee report on page 62.
As previously announced two principal overseas subsidiaries, in Kerpen, Germany and Paris, by the Company in December 2014, we were very pleased to welcome France.
During these visits the Board received presentations from senior Minnow Powell onto the Board and each of its Committees, with effect members of the in-country German and French management teams, from 1 January 2015.
As a former senior audit partner with Deloitte with a particular focus on the progress made by both businesses LLP, Minnow brings with him a wealth of corporate reporting and risk following the relatively recent implementation of Group Operating management experience, which will be of great value to the Board Model policies and procedures.
as it continues to drive the Companys growth through its services-led strategy.
In line with the Companys procedure for new Directors, he Diversity received a full induction, which included meetings with the Chairman The Board continues to recognise the benefits that diverse skills, of the Board and its Committees, the CEO and Group Finance Director experience and points of view can bring to an organisation, CFO, the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Head and how it may assist the decision-making ability of the Board, of Commercial Finance, as well as other selected members of Group thereby increasing its effectiveness.
Whilst the Board continues Management.
As also previously announced by the Company, after to recognise and monitor the continuing debate around possible nine years of valuable service, John Ormerod will step down from his future legislation in this area, appointments to the Board will continue role as a Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman of to remain primarily based on merit.
As at 31 December 2014, the the Company with effect from 1 April 2015, following which he will Computacenter Board had one female Non-Executive Director, Regine be replaced in that role by Minnow Powell.
Stachelhaus, representing 12.5 per cent of total Board membership.
Strategy Shareholder engagement The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the This Corporate Governance report is intended to give shareholders Group and for implementing the business model set out on pages 14 an understanding of the Companys corporate governance and 15 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
It is essential for the Board arrangements and how they operated during the 2014 financial year.
to ensure that the Company has the right strategy in place and this The Board remains committed to communicating with our shareholders has been an area of focus again in 2014.
The development of the and, where appropriate, submitting its views and considerations for Groups strategy is now discussed at every Board meeting, with an consultation and feedback.
Further details regarding this engagement additional annual session dedicated to receiving strategy-related with our shareholders can be found on page 51 of this report.
presentations from Group Executive Management.
The Group Head of Strategy and Marketing is a member of the Group Executive In accordance with the Code, with the exception of John Ormerod Committee and with the Board requesting more focus on strategy who is standing down from his role as a Non-Executive Director of and forward planning and less on operational issues, the Board the Company and Minnow Powell who will be standing for election for has seen a high quality of both strategic thought and management the first time following his appointment to the Board in January 2015, information during the reporting period.
all of the Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Board effectiveness Following the external evaluation of the Board referred to in the Companys 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, the recommendations from that exercise have now been implemented.
A further internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees has now taken place for the reporting period, and after careful consideration of its findings, the Greg Lock Board has agreed its priorities for 2015.
Further details of the process Non-Executive Chairman carried out and the findings of the evaluation can be found on page 50 11 March 2015 of this report.
After careful consideration of its findings, I am satisfied that the Board is functioning effectively and that its current constitution and range of skills are appropriate to ensure that the long-term interests of the Company and our shareholders are protected.
I also remain satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles at Board and Committee level as currently required by the Company.
However, I can assure you that in my role as Chairman of the Board, I will continue to assess both of these judgements to ensure that they remain the case on an ongoing basis.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Brian McBride, has carried out a review of my performance with input from the remaining Non-Executive Directors.
49 Effectiveness Board composition and independence The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year to deal The membership of the Board as at 31 December 2014 is set out on with the standing items on its agenda, including reviewing and pages 46 and 47, and on that date included six Non-Executive Directors discussing any information provided to it by senior management.
The attendance of the Directors at Board Day-to-day management and operational activities are delegated and Committee meetings is additionally set out on pages 58, 62 and 67 to a duly authorised Group Executive Committee including, amongst of this report.
Minnow Powell has been appointed as a Non-Executive others, the Executive Directors, Group Chief Operating Officer Director of the Board with effect from 1 January 2015, and his and Group Chief Commercial Officer.
Other Board level matters biography can also be found on page 47. are delegated to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, details of which can be found at pages 58 to 74.
During the period, the Board has considered the independence The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained of each Director, taking into account the guidance provided by from the Companys website, www.
The Chairman, Greg Lock, was considered by the Board or from the Company Secretary, upon request.
The composition to be independent on appointment, and each of Brian McBride, of each Committee as at 31 December 2014 appears on pages John Ormerod and Regine Stachelhaus are considered by the Board 58, 62 and 67 following this report, as do reports from the Chairman to be independent in their character and judgement.
Brian McBride of each Committee setting out the main responsibilities of their remains the Senior Independent Director, following his appointment respective Committee and its main activities during the year.
In this role, Brian acts as an intermediary between the Chairman and the other Directors.
The Chairman and The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate Non-Executive Directors met twice throughout the year without and their responsibilities are clearly defined in writing, reviewed the Executive Directors being present.
annually and approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairmans role is to lead and manage the Board, and to play a role in facilitating the The Board acknowledges that the Company is not in compliance discussion of the Companys strategy by the Board.
1.2 of the Code, which requires at least half of actively encourages contribution from all Directors and is responsible the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive for ensuring that constructive interaction is ongoing between the Directors.
The founders of the Company, Philip Hulme and Peter individual members of the Board.
Externally, there have been no Ogden, are Non-Executive Directors, but are not considered changes to the other significant commitments of the Chairman independent under the Code, due to their long tenure, substantial of the Company during the year which would impact the time shareholding in the Company and their previously held executive he has to fulfil his role.
The Board continues to review this matter and, as a result of the Board evaluation recently carried The Chief Executive Officer, in turn, is responsible for the day-to-day out, it remains clear that the contribution being made by these two management of the Groups operational activities and for the proper Directors to the Board, not least due to their continuity of service execution of strategy, as set by the Board.
There is no dominant and knowledge of the Company, continues to be highly valued individual or group of individuals on the Board influencing its by its other members.
collective decision-making ability and the Board is comfortable that each of the Directors makes a valuable contribution to the Board.
Roles and responsibilities of the Board The Board is responsible for the management and performance Board effectiveness of the Group.
It plays a key role in discussing, reviewing and Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive approving the strategic objectives of the Group, and through the induction programme, tailored to their specific background and review of business plans and budgets submitted by the Executive requirements.
New Directors receive an induction pack which Directors and senior management, is additionally responsible for contains information on the Groups business, its structure and ensuring that adequate resources are in place to meet these aims.
operations, Board procedures, corporate governance related matters The Board reviews the performance of the Executive Directors and and details regarding Directors duties and responsibilities.
All new senior management against the targets set for the delivery of these Directors are introduced to the Groups senior management team.
agreed objectives, including a monthly review of the financial performance of each of the Groups in-country units.
Additionally, All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance of each the Board has the powers and duties conferred upon it by the Board and Committee meeting, including detailed briefings on all relevant laws of England and Wales and the Computacenter plc matters, in order to discharge their duties effectively in considering Articles of Association.
There is also a documented schedule of a matter and reaching a decision on it.
Matters Reserved for the Board which additionally include, amongst other things, the approval of acquisitions, major capital expenditure and Group strategy and budgets.
This schedule was reviewed and updated twice during the course of 2014, and is reviewed on an annual basis as a standing Board agenda item.
This schedule can be found on our website at www.
50 Corporate Governance report continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Relations with shareholders A performance review of the Board, its Committees and Directors The Board recognises and values the importance of meeting the has been undertaken since the conclusion of the 2013 financial Companys shareholders to obtain their views and has established reporting period.
As part of this process an interview was conducted a programme to communicate with shareholders, based on its with each Director, and the information from each questionnaire and financial reporting calendar.
interview was then provided to the Chairman, and further considered and discussed by the Board as a whole.
The review indicates that The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the ownership the Board is effectively run and administered, and is functioning of the Companys shares by the Companys corporate brokers who well as a cohesive unit.
It additionally found that there is appropriate provide monthly reports on that ownership.
In addition, meetings opportunity for all Directors to participate in open and constructive are held with major shareholders following both the full-year and debate, and did not find any major areas of concern or identify half-year results.
Normally, these meetings are with the Chief any matters which were of particular importance to individual Executive Officer and Group Finance Director.
The whole Board is Directors.
Members recognised that there had been a significant briefed on the outcome of these meetings and any issues raised shift towards focusing on the development of the Groups strategy are discussed.
It additionally receives feedback reports from the and away from operational matters.
Groups public relations firm, Tulchan Communications LLP.
The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal action In addition, once a year, the Companys top 15 shareholders are against the Directors and, to the extent allowed by legislation, the invited to meet individually with the Chairman and the Company Company has issued an indemnity to each Director against claims Secretary to provide feedback on the Companys management brought by third parties.
and raise other comments, albeit only a few shareholders take up this opportunity.
Specifically, at these meetings, the Company While the Companys Articles of Association require a Director Secretary discusses the Companys corporate governance to be subject to election at the first AGM following his or her arrangements and invites feedback on any areas of particular appointment and thereafter every third year, the Board has decided interest from the relevant shareholder.
that, in accordance with the Code, with the exception of Minnow Powell who will be standing for election for the first time, all Directors The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are contactable on the Board as at 19 May 2015, should be subject to re-election at the Companys registered office to answer any queries that at the Companys next AGM to be held on that date.
All Directors both institutional and individual shareholders may have.
All of will then be subject to re-election at each AGM thereafter.
the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the opportunity of welcoming individual shareholders and other investors to Board support communicate directly and address their questions.
In addition The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all to mandatory information, a full, fair and balanced explanation corporate governance matters and provides advice to the Chairman of of the business of all general meetings is sent in advance to the Board to ensure that all Board procedures are followed, applicable shareholders.
Resolutions at the Companys general meetings rules and regulations are complied with and the Board is continually have been passed on a show of hands and proxies for and against updated on regulatory and governance matters.
All Directors have each resolution together with any abstentions are announced at access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
such meetings, noted in the minutes, available on the Companys website and notified to the market.
A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties.
51 Accountability Risk management The Group operates defined authorisation and approval processes The primary responsibility for identifying and managing the risks throughout all of its operations.
Access controls exist where faced by the Group lies with executive and operational management.
processes have been automated to ensure the security of data.
A comprehensive risk management programme is developed and Management information systems have been developed to identify monitored by the Group Risk Committee, the members of which include risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of the systems senior operational managers across the Group, the Group Finance of internal control.
Accountability is reinforced and further scrutiny Director and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk.
The Group of costs and revenues encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
to customer satisfaction and profitability.
The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, through the Audit Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure Committee, reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Groups that proposals for capital expenditure are properly reviewed and risk management activities.
The Board receives regular reports from authorised.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and the Group Risk Committee and periodically reviews the strategic risks approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject faced by the Group and key mitigation plans.
to approval by the Board, and Board input and approval is sought for all merger and acquisition proposals.
Further information on the key risks facing the Company and the work of the Group Risk Committee can be found within the Our Risk Planning and reporting processes Management Approach on pages 18 to 21.
Through a programme A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated by senior of assessment, appropriate measures and systems of control are management annually and reviewed by the Board.
A comprehensive maintained and, where necessary, developed and implemented.
budgetary process is completed annually and is subject to the Detailed business interruption contingency plans are in place for approval of the Board.
Performance is monitored through a rigorous all key sites and these are regularly tested, in accordance with and detailed financial and management reporting system, by which an agreed schedule.
monthly results are reviewed against budgets and agreed targets for the period which, additionally, are compared to historic data Internal control as deemed appropriate, such as for the previous year.
The results The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing and explanations for variances are regularly reported to the Board.
the Groups systems of internal control and ensuring that the controls Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
are robust and effective in enabling risks to be appropriately assessed and managed.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to Management and specialists within the Finance Department are manage risks, safeguard the Groups assets and ensure the reliability responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial of information used both within the business and for publication.
records and processes that ensure financial information is relevant, This system of control is designed to reduce to a level consistent reliable, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and with the Boards risk appetite, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but of the consolidated financial statements is completed by management not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published by the The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
systems of internal control including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
It is of the Centralised treasury function opinion that the Company has complied with the internal control The Board has established and reviews regularly key treasury requirements of the Code throughout the year.
Where weaknesses policies over matters such as counterparty exposure, borrowing or opportunities for improvement are identified, changes are arrangements, and foreign exchange exposure management.
All cash implemented and monitored.
payments and receipts are managed by centralised finance functions within each of the Group operating companies.
The management of All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate and liquidity and borrowing facilities for customer specific requirements, manage significant risks faced by the Group continuously.
The key ongoing capital expenditure and working capital of the business are elements of the Groups controls are as follows: all undertaken by the Group treasury function which reports to the Group Finance Director, with regular reporting to the Board.
Responsibilities and authority structure The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic decisions Quality and integrity of staff and there is a written schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new The Group Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis to discuss employees are of a suitable calibre.
Management continuously day-to-day operational matters and, with the implementation of the monitors training requirements, and ongoing appraisal procedures Group Operating Model now having taken place within all of the are in place, to ensure that required standards are maintained across Groups main operating entities, ultimate authority and responsibility the Group.
Resource requirements are identified by managers for operational governance sits at Group level.
and reviewed by the relevant Executive Committee.
52 Corporate Governance report continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Compliance policies The Company has in place a number of compliance policies which are applied, including those relating to Business Ethics and Antibribery.
Any breach of these policies by an employee is considered a disciplinary matter and is dealt with accordingly.
The internal control regime is supported by the operation of a Whistleblowing process, by which employees can report concerns anonymously and in confidence.
The Audit Committee has, during the year, reviewed and approved the process by which the Company deals with any Whistleblowing incidents received by it.
This process includes an initial review by the Groups General Counsel to establish the terms of any subsequent investigation by the Company into whether relevant laws or company procedures have been breached as a result of Whistleblowing report received.
Internal audit The Group has an internal audit function which reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The function has direct access to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Its key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to the Board, the Audit Committee and senior management, and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities.
The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed the work of the Internal Audit department towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit programme, ensuring that all significant areas of the business are independently reviewed over, approximately, a three-year period.
The programme and the findings of the reviews are continually assessed to ensure that they take account of the latest information and in particular, the results of the annual review of internal control and any shifts in the focus areas of the various businesses.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit department and the Groups risk management programme are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
The role of the internal audit function and the scope of its work continue to evolve, and will be formally reviewed in the 2015 financial reporting period, with any resultant changes being reported to shareholders in the Companys 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held on 19 May 2015 at Computacenter House, 93-101 Blackfriars Road, SE1 8HL.
The AGM notice of meeting sets out each of the resolutions being proposed.
This notice will shortly be available for download from www.
com, and has been mailed to shareholders if they have elected to receive hard copies.
Compliance with DTR The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, relating to the share capital of the Company, can be found within the Directors report from page 54.
By order of the Board Simon Pereira Company Secretary 11 March 2015 53
