70 Corporate Governance Board and Committees Board and Committees structure How the Board operates It is the Boards responsibility to ensure that there is an effective The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
He also organisational and reporting structure in place such that there are organises its business and sets its agenda.
In addition to the Chairman, clearreporting lines within the Group and well defined roles and there are currently five independent non-executive Directors who have responsibilities.
This is to ensure that the right decisions are being arange of strong and complementary skills.
madewith involvement from the right people.
The table set out on page 78 shows attendance at full meetings of the The Board is assisted by various Principal Committees of the Board Board and its Principal Committees during the last year.
In addition to which report regularly to the Board.
The Board committee structure those full meetings, a number of ad hoc meetings were held to deal with isoutlined in the diagram on page 71.
The membership of these specific items as they arose.
Committees is regularly reviewed by the Board.
When considering Before each Board and Committee meeting, relevant reports and papers, BoardCommittee membership and chairmanship, the Board aims including financial performance data and detailed updates on the toensure that undue reliance is not placed on particular Directors.
progress and implementation of the strategic plan where appropriate, These Board Committees all have clearly defined terms of reference.
The Board has the opportunity to discuss The terms of reference of the Audit and Compliance Committee, these reports and updates and to challenge directly the Executive theBrand and Values Committee, the Nominations Committee, Directors and other senior management, who attend all or part of the theRemuneration Committee and the Valuations Committee are Board meetings.
The key responsibilities and areas of focus for the Board are: Day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility of the Chief Strategy contribute to the development of, and agree, the Groups Executive.
To assist him in this role, the Chief Executive has established strategy.
This includes through review and discussion of reports and anumber of additional Committees.
These are also outlined in the updates at Board meetings as well as through the annual strategy diagram on page 71. review meeting which is attended by the Board and, where relevant, members of the Executive Committee.
Group financial and operational performance review and monitorthe performance of the Group, including through regular reporting anddiscussions with the Executive Committee and othersenior management.
Senior management ensure that the Executive Committee has theskills and resources to deliver the strategy and that appropriate succession and contingency planning is in place.
Evaluation and composition review the performance of the Board and its Committees to ensure that they are effective.
Ensure that theBoard and its Committees comprise competent and capable individuals with a range of skills and experience who bring independent views to the decisions being made.
Internal controls maintain an appropriate internal control framework.
Risk ensure that there are effective risk management policies andprocesses in place and an appropriate governance structure.
The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to itandits duly authorised Committees for decision.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day management and operation of the business, the appointment andremuneration of all staff below the Executive Committee and theformulation and implementation of risk management policies andprocesses.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 71 Overview of Committees of the Board and Chief Executive 3i Group plc Board Principal Board Committees Audit and Compliance Remuneration Brand and Values Nominations Valuations Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting, risk Director and senior Corporate values, ethical Board appointments, Valuation policy and and internal controls management approach, brand and andsize, balance and investment valuations remuneration and Group reputation composition of the Board remuneration structure Richard Meddings Jonathan Asquith Sir Adrian Montague Sir Adrian Montague David Hutchison Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Jonathan Asquith Alistair Cox Simon Borrows Jonathan Asquith Sir Adrian Montague Alistair Cox David Hutchison Kevin Dunn Simon Borrows Simon Borrows Alistair Cox Martine Verluyten All non-executive Directors David Hutchison Julia Wilson are invited to attend and Richard Meddings participate in the Committees Martine Verluyten meetings.
Treasury Transactions Committee In addition to its Principal Committees, the Board also has a number of other standing Committees established to consider specific items of business on an ad hoc basis as required.
These include the Treasury Transactions Committee, which comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group Treasurer, which meets as required to approve treasury transactions.
At least two members of the Committee are required to attend meetings to form a quorum.
Chief Executive Chief Executive Committees Executive Committee Investment Committee Group Risk Committee Conflicts Committee Principal decision-making body in Acquisition, management and Oversees the Groups risk Independent review respect of managing the business disposal of investments management framework ofconflict issues Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Kevin Dunn Chairman Menno Antal Menno Antal Menno Antal Ben Loomes Kevin Dunn Alan Giddins Kevin Dunn Julia Wilson Jeremy Ghose Ben Loomes Jeremy Ghose Alan Giddins Ian Lobley Alan Giddins Neil King Phil White Ben Loomes Ben Loomes Julia Wilson Phil White Phil White Julia Wilson Julia Wilson Director, Group Compliance Director, Internal Audit 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 72 Corporate Governance Board and Committees Division of responsibilities The Board approved division of responsibilities between the Directors is summarised below.
Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Role of non-executive Directors Leads the Board in setting its agenda, Direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day Scrutinise the performance of management agreeing strategy, monitoring financial and basis and is accountable to the Board for in meeting agreed objectives and monitor operational performance, and establishing thefinancial and operational performance the reporting of performance.
Seek assurance on the integrity of the Responsible for organising the business Leads the Executive Committee to financial information and that financial ofthe Board, ensuring its effectiveness, developand implement the Groups controls and systems of risk management andmaintaining an effective system strategyand manage risk and the internal are robust and defensible.
Determine appropriate levels of Ensures that non-executive Directors Chairs the Investment Committee to review remuneration for Executive Directors receive relevant and accurate information the acquisition, management and disposal andExecutive Committee and have a tofacilitate an open and effective discussion.
primerole in appointing Directors and This includes ensuring that the noninsuccession planning.
Reports to the Board on financial and executive Directors receive regular reports operational performance and progress Constructively challenge and help develop on shareholders views on the Group.
proposals on strategy: this occurs at Responsible for the composition of the meetings of the Board, and in particular Regularly engages with shareholders Board and facilitates the effective atthe annual review meeting to discuss andother key stakeholders on the Groups contribution of non-executive Directors and ongoing strategy, the most recent of which activities and progress.
constructive relations between Executive took place in December 2013. and non-executive Directors.
Effectiveness During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own Following enhancements to regular Board reports made in the previous performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
On this year suggestions were made for further improvement so as to focus the occasion, the process was led by the Chairman and conducted internally: papers more specifically on key matters and to include certain additional the performance evaluation had been externally facilitated in the analysis and explanation.
The process for setting the aims and agenda previous year by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited.
The for the Boards annual Strategy Day discussion was also refocused.
Chairman held one-on-one discussions informed by a checklist with In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr R H Meddings led a review allDirectors, business unit heads, the Group Strategy Director, the by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and subsequently GroupGeneral Counsel and Mr W Mesdag who retired from the reported back to the Board and provided feedback to the Chairman.
The results of the evaluation process were reported to, and discussed by, the Board.
Investment policy The Board performance evaluation included consideration of the following topics.
The evaluation considered the overall composition of Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules 3i, as a closed-ended theBoard including plans for executive and non-executive succession investment fund, is required to publish an investment policy containing over time, which included the need for further non-executive Director information about policies on asset allocation, risk diversification and recruitment.
Directors made various useful suggestions to further gearing.
Prior shareholder approval is required for any material change enhance the functioning of individual Board committees.
It was agreed to this published policy.
Non-material changes can be made by the toreview and refocus the terms of reference of the Brand and Values Board.
The current investment policy is set out opposite.
Committee on a range of specific reputation-linked issues.
Steps taken During the year, the Company has continued its approach of conservative previously to enable non-executive Directors to increase further their balance sheet management.
The Board recognises the need to manage knowledge of the Groups investments and engage more strongly with liquidity and gross and net debt levels on a conservative basis such that the Groups investment business were judged to have been successful the Company should be well-placed to deal with external events, take and some further steps were agreed for the coming year.
This included advantage of opportunities and manage its investment and divestment additional presentations to the Board from business units.
Non-executive activities in a flexible manner.
The Board has decided that gross debt Directors attend each year a number of managements regular internal should not currently exceed 1 billion and may at times be significantly in-depth review discussions on individual portfolio companies which below this limit.
improves the Boards insight into day-to-day performance of portfolio companies.
A number of suggestions as to how to increase the value ofthe non-executive Directors involvement were made.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
