68 Corporate Governance Board of Directors and Executive Committee Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague Simon Borrows Julia Wilson Jonathan Asquith Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-executive Director since 2011.
Chairman Chief Executive since May 2012, Group Finance Director and member Chairman of Citibank International ofAnglian Water Group.
A nonandan Executive Director since he of the Executive Committee since plc and Citigroup Global Markets executive director of Aviva plc, joined 3i in October 2011.
A member of the Groups Limited, and Dexion Capital plc.
Skanska AB and CellMark AB.
of the Group Risk Committee, the Investment Committee since July Previous experience Executive Committee and the 2012.
Joined 3i in 2006 as Deputy Previous experience Non-executive director of Ashmore Groups Investment Committee.
Also Finance Director, with responsibility Chairman of Michael Page Group plc from 2008 to 2012. a non-executive director at Inchcape for the Groups finance, taxation International plc, London First, Executive director of Schroders plc plc and The British Land andtreasury functions.
Also a Friends Provident PLC, British from 2002 to 2008, during which Company PLC.
non-executive director at Legal & Energy Group PLC, Cross London time he was Chief Financial Officer General Group Plc.
Rail Links Ltd Crossrail and Deputy Previous experience and later Vice-Chairman.
Previously Chairman of Network Rail and the Formerly Chairman of Greenhill & Previous experience spent 18years in investment UK Green Investment Bank plc.
Co International LLP, having Group Director of Corporate Finance banking with Morgan Grenfell and previously been Co-Chief Executive at Cable & Wireless plc.
Chairman of AXA Officer of Greenhill & Co, Inc. Before Investment Managers.
founding the European operations ofGreenhill & Co in 1998 he was theManaging Director of Baring Brothers International Limited.
Alistair Cox David Hutchison Richard Meddings Martine Verluyten Non-executive Director since 2009.
Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director since 2008 Non-executive Director since Chief Executive of Hays plc.
Chief Executive of and Senior Independent Director January 2012.
Group Finance director of Thomas Cook Groupplc, Previous experience Director of Standard Chartered PLC STMicroelectronics NV and Groupe Chief Executive of Xansa plc from Previous experience since 2006, having joined the Board Bruxelles Lambert.
2002 to 2007, and Regional Until 2009 Head of UK Investment of Standard Chartered PLC as a President of Asia and Group Banking at Dresdner Kleinwort Previous experience Group Executive Director in 2002.
Strategy Director at Lafarge Limited and a member of its Global Chief Financial Officer of Umicore, Amember of the Governing Council formerly Blue Circle Industries Banking Operating Committee.
aBrussels-based listed materials of the International Chamber of between 1994 and 2002. technology group, from 2006 to Commerce, United Kingdom.
Before joining Previous experience Umicore was Group Controller Chief Operating Officer, Barclays andthen Chief Financial Officer Private Clients, Group Financial ofMobistar.
Controller at Barclays PLC and Group Finance Director of Woolwich PLC.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 69 Executive Committee Menno Antal Kevin Dunn Jeremy Ghose Alan Giddins Managing Partner, Private Equity General Counsel, Company Managing Partner and CEO of Managing Partner, Private Equity A member of the Executive Secretary and Headof Human 3i Debt Management A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Resources A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since 2010.
Responsible for 3is legal, Committee since joining 3i in 2011 Investment Committee since 2010. compliance, internal audit, human on 3is acquisition of Mizuho Previous experience Previous experience resources and company secretarial Investment Management UK Joined 3i in 2000 and Managing Joined 3i in 2005.
A member of the Limited from Mizuho Director, Benelux, since 2003.
Prior spent 13years in investment Executive Committee since joining Corporate Bank.
to joining 3i, held a broad range of banking, latterly as a Managing 3iin 2007. international managerial positions Previous experience Director at Socit Gnrale.
Previous experience Prior to joining 3i, was with Mizuho Prior to joining 3i, was a Senior Corporate Bank formerly The Fuji Managing Director, running GEs Bank since 1988 and on its European Leveraged Finance executive board since 2005.
Founder business after serving as of Mizuhos Leveraged Finance EuropeanGeneral Counsel for GE.
business in 1988 and of the Prior to GE, was a partner at the third-party independent debt fund lawfirms Travers Smith and management business in 2005.
Neil King Ben Loomes Phil White Senior Partner, Infrastructure Managing Partner, Infrastructure Managing Partner, Infrastructure A member of the Executive and Group Strategy Director A member of the Executive Committee since February 2014.
A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since Previous experience Investment Committee since 2012.
Prior to joining 3i, experience in the infrastructure Previous experience Previous experience market, including roles at Innisfree, Joined 3i in April 2012.
Prior to joining WestLB and Barclays.
joining 3i, experience included 3i, experience in infrastructure mergers and acquisitions, financing investment, advisory and financing, advisory and restructuring, including roles at Macquarie, including roles at Goldman Sachs, WestLB and Barclays.
Greenhill & Co and Morgan Stanley.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
