Corporate Governance 73 Statutory and corporate governance information As a consequence, gearing, which is a function of both net debt and The Board therefore proposes to seek shareholder approval at asset values, is expected to be in the range of 0%30% for the immediate theAnnual General Meeting on 17 July 2014 to amend the current future.
It should be noted that subject always to the formal gearing limit investment policy so that the 15% maximum exposure limit for a single in the Companys investment policy statement set out below the actual investment relates to the cost of the investment as a proportion of the gearing level at any point in time will fluctuate, since it is a function of, portfolio value as shown in the then most recent portfolio valuation.
among other things, asset valuations and the timing of investment and The proposed change also provides that a higher maximum exposure realisation cash flows.
The Board anticipates that the Company may limit of 30% should apply to 3is investment in 3i Infrastructure plc, bein a net cash position during certain periods for example during asthat company is itself a diversified investment vehicle.
periods of high valuations where realisations might be expected to The proposed amended investment policy is set out below and further exceed investment but may have net debt in other periods for example details are set out in the 2014 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
where valuations are relatively low or after periods of low return flows.
Current Investment policy Proposed amended Investment policy 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its shareholders 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its with quoted access to private equity, infrastructure and debt shareholders with quoted access to private equity, infrastructure management investment returns.
Currently, its main focus is on and debt management investment returns.
Currently, its main making quoted and unquoted equity and or debt investments in focus is on making quoted and unquoted equity and or debt businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
The investments in businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and the geographies, economic sectors, funds and asset classes in which Americas.
The geographies, economic sectors, funds and asset 3i invests continue to evolve as opportunities are identified.
Proposed classes in which 3i invests continue to evolve as opportunities investments are assessed individually and allsignificant investments areidentified.
Proposed investments are assessed individually require approval from the Groups Investment Committee.
and all significant investments require approval from the Groups Overallinvestment targets are subject toperiodic reviews and Investment Committee.
Overall investment targets are subject theinvestment portfolio is also reviewed tomonitor exposure toperiodic reviews and the investment portfolio is also reviewed tospecific geographies, economic sectors andasset classes.
to monitor exposure to specific geographies, economic sectors and asset classes.
3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion of investments by geography, economic sector, asset class and size 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion of as well as through the maturity profile of its investment portfolio.
investments by geography, economic sector, asset class and size In addition, although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits as well as through the maturity profile of its investment portfolio.
forasset allocations, no more than 15% by value of 3is portfolio Although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits for asset can be held in a single investment.
allocations, it does have a maximum exposure limit that, save as Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt and mentioned below, no investment will be made unless its cost does shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns to not exceed 15% ofthe investment portfolio value as shown in the shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base.
A further investment may be made in depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact anexisting investee company provided the aggregate cost of that ofmarket movements and other factors on the value of its investment and of all other investments in that investee company investments.
The Board takes this into account when, as required, does not exceed 15% of the investment portfolio value as shown it sets a precise maximum level of gearing.
The Board has inthe last published valuation.
A higher limit of 30% will apply therefore set the maximum level of gearing at 150% and has set tothe Companys investment in 3i Infrastructure plc.
For the nominimum level of gearing.
If the gearing ratio should exceed avoidance of doubt, 3i may retain an investment even if its the150% maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce the carrying value is greater than 15% or 30% as the case may be gearing ratio to below that limit as soon as practicable thereafter.
ofthe portfolio value at the time of an updated valuation.
3i is committed to achieving balance sheet efficiency.
Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt and shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns to shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base.
3is Proposed changes to gearing depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact of market movements and other factors on the value Investment policy ofitsinvestments.
The Board takes this into account when, as 3i will continue to seek to diversify risk through significant dispersion required, itsets a precise maximum level of gearing.
Following the strategic review in June 2012, and the has therefore set the maximum level of gearing at 150% and implementation of the asset management initiatives in the Private Equity hasset no minimum level of gearing.
If the gearing ratio should business, the portfolio has performed strongly.
The Board has taken the exceed the 150% maximum limit, the Board will take steps to view that the investment policy should apply its maximum exposure limit reduce the gearing ratioto below that limit as soon as practicable for a single investment to cost, not value, to avoid good performance thereafter.
becoming a restriction on its ability to maximise shareholder value through requiring a premature disposal of an investment which reacheda limit on value.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 74 Corporate Governance Statutory and corporate governance information Although the disclosures required by FUND 3.2.
2R of the FCAs Investment Tax and investment company status Funds sourcebook are covered in this Annual report they are also, forconvenience, summarised on the 3i website at www.
This The Company is an investment company as defined by section 833 willbe updated as required and changes noted infuture Annual reports.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved the Company as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Corporation As part of complying with AIFMD there is a requirement for Tax Act 2010 and the Company directs its affairs to enable it to continue 3iInvestments plc, as AIFM, to appoint a depository for each AIF.
Wearewell progressed with appointing Citibank International plc as depository and this will be completed prior to the AIFMD transitional deadline of22 July 2014.
Regulation and management arrangements Results and dividends 3i Investments plc, 3i Debt Management Investments Limited, 3i BIFM Total comprehensive income for the year was 478 million 2013: Investments Limited, 3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic plc, all of which are 373 million.
An interim dividend of 6.7p comprising a base dividend subsidiaries of the Company, are authorised and regulated by the of2.7p and an additional dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share in respect Financial Conduct Authority FCA under the Financial Services ofthe year to 31 March 2014 was paid on 8 January 2014.
Where applicable, certain Group subsidiaries recommend a final dividend of 13.3p comprising a base dividend of businesses outside the United Kingdom are regulated locally by 5.4p and an additional dividend of 7.9p per ordinary share be paid in relevantauthorities.
respect of the year to 31 March 2014 to shareholders on the Register atthe close of business on 20 June 2014.
3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Contracts for these investment management The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the Employee Trust and other services, for which regulatory authorisation is required, haswaived subject to certain minor exceptions dividends declared providefor fees based on the work done and costs incurred in providing onshares in the Company held by the Employee Trust and the Trustee such services.
These contracts may be terminated by either party ofThe 3iGroup Share Incentive Plan has waived dividends on unallocated onreasonable notice.
shares in the Company held by it.
3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and administrative services, for which no regulatory authorisation is required, under Share capital contracts which provide for fees based on the work done and costs The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2014 comprised incurred in providing such services together with a performance fee 971,803,122 ordinary shares of 73 19 22p each and 4,635,018 B shares based on realised profits on the sale of assets.
cumulative preference shares of 1p each, representing 99.99% and The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD became 0.01% respectively of the Companys issued share capital by effective in July 2013.
3i is currently in the process of registering nominal value.
3i Investments plc as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2013 which in turn manages three Alternative Investment Funds AIFs, was971,405,127 ordinary shares and increased over the year by namely, 3i Group plc, 3i Growth Capital Fund and 3i Eurofund V. 3i has 397,995ordinary shares due to the issue of shares to the trustee of assessed the various requirements of the AIFMD and has made the The 3iGroup Share Incentive Plan and on the issue of shares under necessary updates to its procedures to meet them.
At the Annual General Meeting The Annual report and accounts meet the investor reporting AGM on 18 July 2013, the Directors were authorised to repurchase requirements of AIFMD as set out in FUND 3.2.
2R of the FCAs up to 97,000,000 ordinary shares in the Company representing InvestmentFunds sourcebook for 3i Group plc as a standalone entity.
approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital TheCompanys profit for the year is stated in its Statement of changes asat15 May 2013 until the Companys AGM in 2014 or 17 October 2014, inequity and its Financial position is shown on page 106.
Thisauthority was not exercised in the year.
performs substantially all of its investment related activities through The issued B share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2013 was itssubsidiaries and therefore the Groups consolidated Statement 4,635,018 B shares and did not change in the year.
At the AGM on ofComprehensive income is considered to be more useful to investors 18 July 2013, the Directors were authorised to repurchase up to than a Company statement.
4,635,018Bshares in the Company until the Companys AGM in 2014 or Furthermore in some instances the relevant AIFMD required disclosures 17 October 2014, if earlier.
This authority was not exercised in the year.
have been made in relation to the Group on a consolidated basis rather than about 3i Group plc as a standalone entity.
This is because 3i Group plc, as a standalone entity, operates through its group subsidiaries and therefore reporting on the Groups activities provides more relevant information on the Company and its position.
There have been no material changes to the Companys operations in the past year.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 75 3is remuneration policy is influenced by 3is financial and other Debentures performance conditions and market practices in the countries in which itoperates.
All employees receive a base salary and are also eligible to As detailed in Note 21 to the Accounts, as at 31 March 2014 the Company beconsidered for a performance-related annual variable incentive award.
had in issue Notes issued under the 3i Group plc 2,000 million Note For those members of staff receiving higher levels of annual variable Issuance Programme.
incentive awards, a proportion of such awards is delivered in 3i shares, vesting over a number of years.
Directors conflicts of interests Where appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in 3i share Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the schemes to encourage employees involvement in 3is performance.
The Companys Articles of Association enable Directors Investment executives in the Private Equity business line may also toapprove conflicts of interest and include other conflict of interest participate in carried interest schemes, which allow executives to share provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify potential directly in any future profits on investments.
Similarly, investment and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then considered for executives in the Infrastructure and Debt Management business lines approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
may participate in asset-linked and or fee-linked incentive arrangements.
Employees participate in local state or company pension schemes Directors indemnities asappropriate to local market conditions.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Company Political donations hasmaintained Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions as defined under relevant legislation for the benefit of the Companys Directors In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March 2014 no donations throughout the year.
were made to political parties or organisations, or independent election candidates, and no political expenditure was incurred.
Employment Significant agreements The employment policy of the Group is one of equal opportunity in the selection, training, career development and promotion of employees, As at 31 March 2014 the Company was party to the following agreements regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and that are subject to a renegotiation period on a change of control of the whether disabled or otherwise.
Company following a takeover bid: 3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities fairly and provides a 450 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated facilities, equipment and training to assist disabled employees to do their 30 June 2011, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc jobs.
Arrangements are made as necessary to ensure support to job and 12 other banks.
The Company is required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank applicants who happen to be disabled and who respond to requests to plc, as agent bank, within five days, of a change of control.
This opens a inform the Company of any requirements.
Should an employee become 20-day negotiation period to determine if the Majority Lenders as defined disabled during their employment, efforts would be made to retain them in the agreement are willing to continue the facility.
Failing agreement, in their current employment or to explore the opportunities for their amounts outstanding would be repayable and the facility cancelled: and retraining or redeployment within 3i.
Financial support is also provided by b 50 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated 3i to support disabled employees who are unable to work, as appropriate 29 September 2011, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc and Nordea to local market conditions.
Bank Finland PLC London Branch.
The Company is required to notify 3is principal means of keeping in touch with the views of its employees thelender, within five days, of a change of control.
This opens a 20-day isthrough employee appraisals, informal consultations, team briefings, negotiation period to determine if the lender is willing to continue the and staff conferences.
Managers throughout 3i have a continuing facility.
Failing agreement amounts outstanding would be repayable responsibility to keep their staff fully informed of developments and andthe facility cancelled.
tocommunicate financial results and other matters of interest.
This isachieved by structured communication including regular meetings ofemployees.
3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear grievance and disciplinary procedures in place.
3i also has an employee assistance programme which provides a confidential, free and independent counselling service and is available to all UK staff and their families in the UK.
3is employment policies are designed to provide a competitive reward package which will attract and retain high quality staff, whilst ensuring that the relevant costs remain at an appropriate level.
Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i Group plc Remuneration Committee, comprising 3i Group plc non-executive Directors.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 76 Corporate Governance Statutory and corporate governance information Statement of Directors Going concern The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation to responsibilities thefinancial statements for the year to 31 March 2014.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those future development, performance and position are set out in the Business International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs which have been review section.
The financial position of the Group, its capital structure, adopted by the European Union.
gearing and liquidity positions are described in the Financial review Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group financial section.
The Groups policies on risk management, including treasury statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial andfunding risks, are contained in the Risk section.
Further details are position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that contained in the Financial statements and Notes including, in particular, period.
The Directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, details on financial risk management and derivative financial instruments.
takenas a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys risks successfully.
The Directors have considered the uncertainties performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing the Group inherent in current and expected future market conditions, their possible financial statements the Directors: impact upon the financial performance of the Group and a report from a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with International the Group Finance Director on the outlook for liquidity.
After consideration, Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting the Directors are satisfied that the Company has and will maintain Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: sufficient financial resources to enable it to continue operating in the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern b present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: c provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Audit information requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Groups financial position and financial performance: Directors confirms that: d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and ofwhichthe Companys auditors are unaware: and b they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that proper accounting Companys auditors are aware of such information.
records are kept which are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Appointment of auditors financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young, LLP as the Companys They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably auditors will be put to members at the forthcoming AGM.
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, theDirectors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole together witha description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed in the Board of Directors and Executive Committee section.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
