Corporate Governance 77 Corporate governance statement Major changes in the nature of business operations: This section of the Directors report contains Investments and divestments in the ordinary course of business the corporate governance statement required above certain limits set by the Board from time to time: by FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
Adequacy of internal control systems: Appointments to the Board and the Executive Committee: Corporate governance Principal terms and conditions of employment of members The Company seeks to comply with established best practice in the field of the Executive Committee: and of corporate governance.
The Board has adopted core values and global policies which set out the behaviour expected of staff in their dealings Changes in employee share schemes and other long-term with shareholders, customers, colleagues, suppliers and others who incentive schemes.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include implementation Throughout the year, the Company complied with the provisions of the of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day operation of the business, UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial theappointment and remuneration of all executives below the Executive Reporting Council in September 2012.
Committee and the formulation and execution of risk management policies and procedures.
The Boards responsibilities A succession and contingency plan for executive leadership is prepared by management and reviewed periodically by the Board.
The purpose and processes ofthis plan is to identify suitable candidates for succession to key senior The Boards key responsibilities are described on page 70.
It is management positions, agree their training and development needs, responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group andensure the necessary human resources are in place for the and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the Company tomeet its objectives.
provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of Association andany directions given by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Meetings of the Board Articles of Association empower the Board to offer, allot, grant options The principal matters considered by the Board during the year over or otherwise deal with or dispose of the Companys shares as the inaddition to matters formally reserved to the Board included: Board may decide.
The Companies Act 2006 authorises the Company tomake market purchases of its own shares if the purchase has first The Groups strategic model, related KPIs and annual budget: been authorised by a resolution of the Company.
Regular reports from the Chief Executive: At the AGM in July 2013, shareholders renewed the Boards authority Regular reports from the Boards committees: toallot ordinary shares and to repurchase ordinary shares on behalf ofthe Company subject to certain limits and also renewed the Boards The recommendations of the Valuations Committee on valuations authority to repurchase B shares on behalf of the Company subject to ofinvestments: certain limits.
Details of the authorities which the Board will be seeking The Annual report and accounts, half yearly report and quarterly at the 2014 AGM are set out in the 2014 Notice of AGM.
interim management statements: The Articles of Association also specifically empower the Board to exercise the Companys powers to borrow money and to mortgage The Groups dividend policy: orcharge the Companys assets and any uncalled capital and to issue Organisational capability and succession plans: and debentures and other securities.
The acquisition of Barclays Infrastructure Fund Management Limited.
Matters reserved for the Board Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner inpreparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors toitandits duly authorised Committees for decision.
These include: from time to time.
Approval of the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan and annual operating budget: Performance evaluation Approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial statements During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its and changes in the Groups accounting policies or practices: ownperformance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
Further details are given on page 72.
Changes relating to the capital structure of the Company or its regulated status: Major capital projects: 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 78 Corporate Governance Corporate governance statement Attendance at Board and CommitteeMeetings The table below shows the number of full meetings of the Board and its committees attended by Directors during the year to 31 March 2014 and, inbrackets, the number of such meetings they were eligible to attend.
In addition to these meetings a number of ad hoc meetings were held to deal with specific items as they arose.
Audit and Brand and Compliance Nominations Remuneration Valuations Values 3 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 7 6 7 6 4 2 Number attended: Sir Adrian Montague 7 7 7 7 4 4 2 2 S A Borrows 7 7 6 7 4 4 2 2 J S Wilson 7 7 4 4 J P Asquith 7 7 6 6 5 7 6 6 2 2 A R Cox 7 7 6 6 7 7 6 6 2 2 1 D A M Hutchison 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 R H Meddings 7 7 6 6 7 7 1 2 2 W Mesdag 5 5 3 3 4 4 3 3 1 1 M G Verluyten 7 7 4 4 7 7 0 1 2 2 1 Appointed 11 November 2013.
3 Although not members of the Brand and Values Committee all non-executive Directors are invited to attend and participate in the Committees meetings.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring Directors are Appointment and re-election eligible for reappointment.
The office of Director is vacated if the Director resigns, becomes bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director ofDirectors or where the Board so resolves following the Director suffering from ill-health or being absent from Board meetings for 12 months without Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Acts the Boards permission.
and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term.
Before the third and sixth In accordance with the Code all Directors choose to submit to anniversaries of first appointment, the Director discusses with the Board reappointment every year.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be held on whether it is appropriate for a further three-year term to be served.
17 July 2014, all the Directors will retire from office.
All the Directors are eligible for and seek reappointment other than Mr R H Meddings Under the Companys Articles of Association the minimum number of who will retire as a Director at the conclusion of the AGM.
The Boards Directors is two and the maximum is 20, unless otherwise determined recommendation for the reappointment of Directors is set out in the 2014 by the Company by ordinary resolution.
Directors are appointed by Notice of AGM.
ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for Directors to retire by rotation at an AGM if they were appointed by the Board since the preceding AGM, they held office during the two preceding AGMs but did not retire at either ofthem, they held non-executive office for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of that AGM, or they choose to retire from office.
Shareholders can remove any Director by special resolution andappoint another person to be a director in their place by ordinaryresolution.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 79 Training and development The roles of the Chairman, The Company has a training policy which provides a framework within which training for Directors is planned with the objective of ensuring ChiefExecutive and Senior Directors understand the duties and responsibilities of being a director Independent Director ofa listed company.
All Directors are required to update their skills and maintain their familiarity with the Company and its business continually.
The Board approved division of responsibilities between the Chairman Presentations on different aspects of the Companys business are made ofthe Board and the Chief Executive is described on page 72. regularly to the Board.
On appointment, all non-executive Directors have Mr R H Meddings has served as Senior Independent Director since discussions with the Chairman and the Chief Executive following which October 2010, to whom, in accordance with the Code, concerns can appropriate briefings on the responsibilities of Directors, the Companys beconveyed.
business and the Companys procedures are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities for non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys business by meeting members of the Directors senior management team who in turn arrange, as required, visits to Directors biographical details are set out on page 68.
The Board investment or support teams.
currently comprises the Chairman, five independent non-executive The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal Directors and two Executive Directors.
Sir Adrian Montague served orother professional advice about the performance of their duties.
asChairman and Mr J P Asquith, Mr S A Borrows, Mr A R Cox, Mr R H Meddings, Ms M G Verluyten and Mrs J S Wilson served asDirectors throughout the year under review.
Mr W Mesdag served The Boards Committees asaDirector until 30 November 2013 and Mr D A M Hutchison served As described on page 71, the Board is assisted by various principal asaDirector from 11 November 2013. committees of the Board which report regularly to it.
In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as Directors, nonAudit and Compliance Committee executive Directors are expected to bring an independent judgment tobear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards The membership and activities of the Audit and Compliance Committee ofconduct, and to help the Board provide the Company with effective are described in its report on pages 84 to 86. leadership.
Further details of their role are set out on page 72.
Nonexecutive Directors are expected to make available sufficient time Remuneration Committee tomeet the requirements of the appointment.
The average time The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are commitment is expected to be around 15 days a year together with described in the Directors remuneration report.
additional time for serving on the Boards committees.
Nominations Committee The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups strategic plan and annual budget, provide the non-executive Directors with the The Nominations Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague Chairman, opportunity to contribute to and validate managements plans and assist Mr S A Borrows, Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox, Mr D A M Hutchison, in the development of strategy.
The non-executive Directors receive Mr R H Meddings, and Ms M G Verluyten, all of whom served throughout regular management accounts, reports and information which enable the year, save for Mr Hutchison who served from his appointment as them to scrutinise the Companys and managements performance aDirector on 11 November 2013.
Mr W Mesdag was a member of the against agreed objectives.
Committee until his resignation from the Board on 30 November 2013.
During the year, the Nominations Committee held seven meetings Directors independence atwhich it: All the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman, whowas Considered the size, balance, diversity including gender and independent on appointment were considered by the Board to be composition of the Board, including succession planning, and the independent for the purposes of the Code inthe year to 31 March 2014. needs of the Company in terms of the desirable experience and The Board reviews non-executive Director independence atleast qualifications of future appointees as non-executive Directors: annually, having regard to the potential relevance andmateriality Considered candidates for appointment as non-executive Director ofaDirectors interests and relationships.
NoDirector was materially andrecommended to the Board the appointment of Mr Hutchison: and interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the endof the financial period that was significant in relation to the Considered and put in train arrangements for selecting further businessof theCompany.
candidates for recommendation to the Board for appointment asnon-executive Director.
Directors employment contracts Details of Executive Directors employment contracts are set out intheDirectors remuneration report.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 80 Corporate Governance Corporate governance statement The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the The valuation policy was reviewed formally in January 2014.
The appointment of Directors with the objective of identifying the skills and situations where run-rate earnings are appropriate, the application experience profile required of new Directors and identifying suitable ofcaps and discounts and the valuation of equity stakes in CLOs were candidates.
The procedure includes the appraisal and selection of specifically discussed and recommended.
The Committee also reviewed potential candidates by the Committee, including in the case of nonand recommended amendments to the policy in light of the application executive Directors whether they have sufficient time to fulfil their roles.
Specialist recruitment consultants assist the Committee to identify In addition to the Committee members, meetings of the Valuations suitable candidates for appointment.
The Committees recommendations Committee are also attended by the Group Financial Controller, for appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
members of the central Valuations team and the external Auditors.
Further to the publication of the Davies Report on Women on Boards, Brand and Values Committee and Code Provision B.
2.4, the Board strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one important aspect.
The Brand and Values Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague The Boards aim is to have a broad range of approaches, backgrounds, Chairman, Mr S A Borrows and Mr K J Dunn, all of whom served skills and experience represented on the Board and to make throughout the year.
In addition, all of the Companys non-executive appointments on merit and against objective criteria, including diversity.
Directors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee and participate External search consultancies engaged by the Company are instructed in its discussions.
to put forward for all Board positions a diversity of candidates including During the year, the Brand and Values Committee met twice.
Neither of the two external search consultancies inthe year included considering and approving changes to the ESG engaged by the Committee during the year, The Zygos Partnership and management framework within the Group, reviewing and updating Russell Reynolds Associates, had other connections with the Company.
theGroups Responsible Investment policy and receiving reports on reputational risk matters.
It also reviewed proposed changes to the Valuations Committee Committees own terms of reference intended to refocus the Committee The Valuations Committee comprises Mr D A M Hutchison Chairman, on a range of specific reputation linked issues.
SirAdrian Montague, Ms M G Verluyten, Mr S A Borrows and MrsJSWilson, all of whom served throughout the year except Treasury Transactions Committee MrHutchison who served from 30 November 2013 and Ms Verluyten In addition to its Principal Committees, the Board also has a number who served from 3 December 2013.
Mr W Mesdag was a member ofother standing committees established to consider specific items andChairman of the Committee until his resignation as a Director ofbusiness on an ad hoc basis as required.
These include the Treasury on30 November 2013.
Transactions Committee which comprises the Chairman, the Chief During the year, the Valuations Committee met four times and: Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group Treasurer and meets as required to approve treasury transactions.
At least two Considered and made recommendations to the Audit and members of the Committee are required to attend meetings to form ComplianceCommittee and the Board on the quarterly valuations a quorum.
ofthe Groups investments: Received reports from the external Auditors on the valuations The Company Secretary processand proposed valuations: Directors have access to the advice and services of the General Counsel Reviewed the Groups valuation policies and procedures and and Company Secretary, who advises the Board, through the Chairman, recommended changes to the Audit and Compliance Committee on governance matters.
The Companys Articles of Association and and the Board where relevant: and theschedule of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Considered and made recommendations on all other matters relating committees for decision provide that the appointment and removal to the valuations for the purpose of the accounts of the Company and oftheCompany Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
the consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company has a formal, robust process for valuing its investment portfolio and the investment portfolio of its subsidiaries.
This process, and the policy which governs it, is reviewed annually.
The Valuations Committee, under delegated authority from the Board of the Company, considers amendments and changes to the policy and recommends them to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board.
The Valuation policy complies with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the guidelines issued by the International Private Equity Valuations Board the IPEV guidelines.
The policy is applied to all investment assets held by the Company or its subsidiaries, or vehicles managed or advised by the Company or its subsidiaries.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 81 Major interests in ordinary shares Notifications of the following major voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital notifiable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules or section 793 Companies Act 2006 had been received by the Company as at 31 March 2014 and 1 May 2014.
Major interests in ordinary shares % of issued As at 31 % of issued As at March 2014 share capital 1 May 2014 share capital BlackRock, Inc 122,120,719 12.57% 124,135,432 12.77% Artemis Investment Management LLP 60,476,307 6.22% 61,494,728 6.33% UBS Global Asset Management 36,937,866 3.80% 37,127,198 3.82% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 35,364,367 3.64% 33,056,726 3.40% J O Hambro Capital Management Group Limited 30,122,056 3.10% 32,060,759 3.30% Royal London Asset Management Limited below 3% 30,372,540 3.13% Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at Relations with shareholders general meetings and to appoint proxies and, in the case of corporations, corporate representatives to attend, speak and vote at such meetings on The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful their behalf.
To attend and vote at a general meeting a shareholder must relationship with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Group be entered on the register of members at such time not being earlier Finance Director meet with the Companys principal shareholders to than 48 hours before the meeting as stated in the Notice of general discuss relevant issues as they arise.
The Chairman maintains a dialogue meeting.
On a poll, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to one vote with shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Directors foreach share held.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive remuneration as required.
The Board receives reports from the theCompanys Annual report and accounts, to receive such dividends Companys brokers on shareholder issues and non-executive Directors and other distributions as may lawfully be paid or declared on such are invited to attend the Companys presentations to analysts and are shares and, on any liquidation of the Company, to share in the surplus offered the opportunity to meet shareholders.
assets ofthe Company after satisfaction of the entitlements of the The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to communicate with holders of theBshares or such other shares with preferred rights its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business presentations are generally asmay then bein issue.
made by the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairmen of the Holders of B shares are entitled, out of the profits available for Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, and Nominations Committees distribution in any year and in priority to any payment of dividend aregenerally available to answer shareholders questions.
orother distribution to holders of ordinary shares, to a cumulative The 2013 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less than preferential dividend of 3.75% per annum calculated on the amount 20working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on each of127p per B share the Return Amount.
On a return of capital resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were made available otherthan a solvent intra-Group reorganisation holders of B shares on the Companys website.
areentitled to receive in priority to any payment to holders of ordinary shares payment of the Return Amount together with any accrued but unpaid dividends but are not entitled to any further right of participation Rights and restrictions in the profits orassets of the Company.
attaching to shares Holders of B shares are not entitled to notice of or to attend, speak or A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to shares as vote at general meetings save where the B share dividend has remained at31 March 2014 is set out below.
unpaid for six months or more or where the business of the meeting includes consideration of aresolution for the winding-up of the Company The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special other than asolvent intra-Group reorganisation in which case holders resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
Holders of ordinary ofB shares shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote only in relation to shares and B shares enjoy the rights set out in the Articles of Association such resolution and in either case shall, on a poll, beentitled to one vote of the Company and under the laws of England and Wales.
Any share per B share held.
may be issued with or have attached to it such rights and restrictions asthe Company by ordinary resolution or, failing such resolution, theBoard may decide.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 82 Corporate Governance Corporate governance statement There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid shares inthe Portfolio management and Company, save as follows.
The Board may decline to register: a transfer of uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated voting policy Securities Regulations 2001: a transfer to more than four joint holders: atransfer of certificated shares which is not in respect of only one class In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups approach is to seek of share: a transfer which is not accompanied by the certificate for the toadd value to the businesses in which the Group invests through the shares to which it relates: a transfer which is not duly stamped in Groups extensive experience, resources and contacts and through active circumstances where a duly stamped instrument is required: or a engagement with the Boards of those companies.
In relation to quoted transfer where in accordance with section 794 of the Companies Act investments, the Groups policy is to exercise voting rights on all matters 2006 a notice under section 793 of that Act has been served by the affecting its interests.
Company on a shareholder who has then failed to give the information required within the specified time.
In the latter circumstances the Internal control Company may make the relevant shares subject to certain restrictions including in respect of the ability to exercise voting rights, to transfer The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and theshares validly and, except in the case of a liquidation, to receive reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system is designed thepayment of sums due from the Company.
Since 14 July 2009, the tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Company has been entitled to appoint a person to execute a transfer objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance onbehalf ofall holders of B shares in acceptance of an offer, paying the against material misstatement or loss.
holders such amount as they would have been entitled to on awindingThrough the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of matters up of the Company.
reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees for decision, There are no shares carrying special rights with regard to control of the theBoard aims to maintain full and effective control over appropriate Company.
There are no restrictions placed on voting rights of fully paid strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
shares, save where in accordance with Article 12 of the Companys The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly Articles of Association a restriction notice has been served by the defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Board Company in respect of shares for failure to comply with statutory considers and approves a strategic plan and budget on an annual basis noticesor where a transfer notice as described below has been and receives regular updates.
In addition, there are established servedin respect of shares and has not yet been complied with.
procedures and processes for planning and controlling expenditure and In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the Companys Articles the making of investments.
There are also information and reporting ofAssociation the Company may serve a transfer notice on holders systems for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
The relevant circumstances relate to: a potential tax The Group Risk Committee is a management committee formed by the disadvantage to the Company, b the number of United States Chief Executive and its purpose is to review the business of the Group in Residents who own or hold shares becoming 75 or more, or c the order to ensure that business risk is considered, assessed and managed Company being required to be registered as an investment company as an integral part of the business.
There is an ongoing process for under relevant US legislation.
The notice would require the transfer identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks.
ofrelevant shares and pending such transfer the rights and privileges Thisprocess was in place for the year to 31 March 2014 and up to attaching to those shares would be suspended.
Details of the risk management framework The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders canbefound in the Risk section.
ofitssecurities that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise The overall internal control process is regularly reviewed by the Board ofvoting rights.
and the Audit and Compliance Committee and complies with the internalcontrol guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the TurnbullCommittee.
The internal control process established for theGroup includes: Policies Core values and global policies together comprising the Groups high level principles and controls, with which all staff are expected to comply: Detailed policies and procedures, with processes for reporting weaknesses and for monitoring corrective action: and A Compliance manual, with procedures for reporting compliancetherewith.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 83 Processes Financial reporting Appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by In the context of the above internal control framework, there are specific recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to fulfil their processes in place in relation to Financial Reporting, including: allotted responsibilities: Comprehensive system of key control and oversight processes, A planning framework which incorporates a Board approved strategic including regular reconciliations, line manager reviews and systems plan, with objectives for each business unit: access controls: Formal business risk reviews performed by management which Updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance Committee evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood of identified risks ofaccounting developments, including draft and new accounting and possible new risk areas: standards and legislation: The setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and the A separate Valuations Committee which considers the Groups review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learnt: investment valuation policies, application and outcome: A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based Approval of the Groups budget by the Board and regular updates onan annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, onactual and forecast financial performance against budget: analysisof variances, scrutiny of key performance indicators and regular re-forecasting: Reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to the financial reporting process, including periodic assessments of internal controls, Regular reports to the Board, which analyse funding requirements, processes and fraud risk: track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity, measure the Groups exposure to exchange rate movements and Independent updates and reports from the external auditors on record the level of compliance with the Groups funding objectives: accounting developments, application of accounting standards, key accounting judgements and observations on systems and A Group Compliance function whose role is to integrate regulatory controls: and compliance procedures and best practices into the Groups systems: and Regular risk reviews, including an assessment of risks to reliable financial reporting covering people, processes and systems, and Well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval of updates on the management of identified risks or actual incidents.
investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular post-investment reviews.
Directors report For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors report Verification of3i Group plc comprises the Strategic report on pages 5 to 65 and An Internal Audit function which undertakes periodic examination Corporate Governance on pages 66 to 102. ofbusiness units and processes and recommends improvements The Directors report has been drawn up and presented in accordance incontrols to management: with and in reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the The external auditors who are engaged to express an opinion on Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations the annual financial statements: and and restrictions provided by that law.
An Audit and Compliance Committee which considers significant By order of the Board control matters and receives reports from Internal Audit, the external K J Dunn auditors and Group Compliance on a regular basis.
Company Secretary The internal control system is monitored and supported by Internal Audit 13 May 2014 and Group Compliance, which operate on an international basis and report to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee on the Registered Office: Groups operations.
The work of Internal Audit is focused on the areas of 16 Palace Street, greatest risk to the Group determined with reference to the Groups risk London SW1E 5JD management process.
The external auditors independently and objectively review the approach of management to reporting operating results and financial condition.
They also review and test the system of internal financial control and the information contained in the annual financial statements tothe extent necessary for expressing their opinion.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
