84 Corporate Governance Audit Committee report The Committees work The Committee met six times during the year and the attendance of members at meetings is shown in the table on page 78.
During the year the Committees activities included the following: Considered, on behalf of the Board, whether the Annual report and accounts taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, andallow shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: Received the reports of the Valuations Committee on the valuation ofthe Groups investment assets and recommended valuations tothe Board: Reviewed portfolio management processes and tax compliance Richard Meddings Chairman, Audit Committee arrangements: Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group and the Groups compliance with its regulatory requirements: The Audit Committee has had a busy Reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting disclosures year, particularly considering the comprised in the half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company and reviewed the scope of the annual external audit plan changes to accounting standards and the external audit findings: andthe presentation of the Received regular reports and updates from the Groups internal audit Groupsperformance.
function on its audit plan, monitored its activities and reviewed its independence, effectiveness and resourcing: Introduction Received regular reports from Group Risk Committee and the Groups regulatory compliance function: This is the first separate Audit Committee Oversaw the Companys relations with its external auditors including report we have presented since the assessing auditor performance, independence and objectivity and recommending the auditors reappointment: recommendations of the Financial Reporting Received an annual report from the Group Tax Director on Council.
In the report, I have set out the matters developments on the legislation, status of the Groups compliance of focus for the Committee during the course andapproach to the management of tax risks: ofthe year, the areas in which judgment Met separately with the Group Finance Director, the Director, Internal Audit, the Director, Group Compliance and the external auditors in the hasbeen exercised, and considered the absence of management: and effectiveness, independence and objectivity Received regular reports on litigation involving the Group, on the ofour external auditors.
Groups regulatory capital position, on developments in regulation and accounting standards, on bank covenants and third-party liabilities, and on Directors and Executive Committee members expenses.
Membership Further details on a number of these activities are provided in the The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises Mr R H Meddings remainder of this report.
Chairman, Mr J P Asquith and Mr A R Cox all of whom are independent non-executive Directors and served throughout the year.
In addition Ms M G Verluyten served as a member of the Committee until 3 December 2013, The Board is satisfied that the Committee Chairman, Mr R H Meddings, has recent and relevant financial experience.
Regular attendees at the meetings are the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Heads of Internal Audit andCompliance and the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
Members of the Executive Committee and other attendees may be invited from time to time depending on the nature of agenda items.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate Governance 85 Significant issues on the Financial statements The Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the results for the year: Area of judgment What the Committee did Valuation of the Proprietary Capital portfolio The most material area of judgment in the financial statements relates On behalf of the Board, the Committee receives and reviews quarterly to the valuation of the unquoted Proprietary Capital portfolio, which reports from the Chairman of the Valuations Committee and the Group at31 March 2014 was 3,011 million, or 91% of net assets, under the Finance Director, which support the published net asset value of the Investment basis.
The external auditors review the valuations and input from the external auditors includes detailed review by their valuations practice In recognition of the importance of this area the Board has established tosupport the audit team.
a separate Valuations Committee to review the valuations policy, process and application to individual investments.
This Committee In addition to that regular review, during the year it specifically considered: provides quarterly reports to the Audit and Compliance Committee.
the appropriateness and extent of capping and discounting multiples Portfolio valuations are prepared in accordance with IFRS and the used to value the Private Equity portfolio in positive markets: IPEVguidelines.
A detailed explanation of the valuations policy is the use of run-rate earnings in high growth companies, and in provided on pages 156 to 158. respect of the Groups investment in Action in particular: and the need to enhance the valuation process in respect of equity investments in Debt Management as fund raising conditions improved and the amount of investment increased.
The Committee satisfied itself that the Valuations Committee had discharged its responsibilities appropriately through a review of the detailed Valuation Committee papers, enquiry of the Chairman of the Valuations Committee, the Group Finance Director and the external auditors.
No adjustments to the valuations proposed were made as aresult of those reviews.
Application of IFRS 10 The Group makes investments in portfolio companies, directly and The Committee followed the developments of IFRS 10 closely, receiving onbehalf of third-parties.
In certain circumstances, as investment regular reports from the Group Finance Director, Group Financial manager or adviser, the Group is assessed as having control of those Controller and the external auditors and noting the guidance investments under IFRS.
recommended by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC inJanuary 2014, which was marginally supported, but not adopted IFRS 10 acknowledges that as an investment company the nature bytheIASB in March 2014. ofthat control differs from that of a holding company of an operating subsidiary, and provides an investment entity exception from the It considered the merits of adopting the standard early, with effect from requirement to consolidate its interests in portfolio companies, and 1 April 2013, and concluded that on balance it was preferable to do so, allows the Group to continue to record its investments at fair value.
taking account of the impracticalities of potentially consolidating the many portfolio companies.
However, the detailed application of IFRS 10 also results in the deconsolidation of a number of intermediate holding companies in the It reviewed the presentation of the Investment basis, the reconciliation Group which are now also recorded at fair value.
The consequence of to the IFRS financial statements, and the IFRS financial statements and this is less transparency of the underlying performance of the Groups the Notes to those statements.
Proprietary Capital investments and of other key performance It made enquiries of the external auditors tounderstand the detailed indicators of the Group.
Therefore, in the interest of transparency, and in the context of the need The Committee concluded that the requirement to present an Annual to ensure that the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and report and accounts that is fair, balanced and understandable took understandable, the results are presented on an Investment basis, precedence over the need to avoid the prevalence of non-GAAP which continues to consolidate the intermediate holding companies.
measures in the strategic report.
It was satisfied that the detailed Areconciliation from the Investment basis to IFRS financial statements explanation and reconciliation from the Investment basis and IFRS is provided in pages 54 to 57, and the primary statements and Notes financial statements was sufficient to ensure transparency for the tothe accounts pages 103 to 151 have been prepared in accordance users of the financial statements.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 86 Corporate Governance Audit Committee report Area of judgment What the Committee did Segmental reporting During the year, the Group has developed the business model which The Committee considered the development of the presentation reflects that it has two principal activities: Proprietary Capital investing oftheGroups Proprietary Capital and Fund Management activities.
Using papers prepared by management during the course of the year, Different proportions of Proprietary Capital are invested in Private itreviewed the extent of segmental reporting and considered whether Equity, in Infrastructure and in Debt Management, as illustrated in disclosure had been enhanced or reduced.
It reviewed the allocation methodology for the treatment of operating Correspondingly different levels of third-party capital are managed costs, carried interest payable and receivable and net interest payable.
oradvised for each business line.
The strategic intent is to ensure It also reviewed the basis of calculation for the synthetic management thatthe combined Fund Management activity as a whole is profitable fee applied to the Proprietary Capital and Fund Management results on asustainable basis.
based on market rates and industry practice.
Accordingly, the Committee concluded that the segmental reporting should be augmented, at this stage of the Groups strategic development, with consolidated Proprietary Capital and Fund Management returns data.
The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring the independence Assessing external audit and objectivity of the Companys auditors.
It reviews the nature and extent of the services provided by them, the level of their fees and the effectiveness element comprising non-audit fees.
The Committee specifically reviews the effectiveness of the external The Committee Chairman is notified of all assignments allocated auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, each year.
It does so through the use toErnst& Young LLP over a set threshold, other than those related ofquestionnaires completed by management, considering the extent todue diligence within the Groups investment process where the team oftheir contribution at its meetings throughout the course of the year, engaged would be independent of the audit team.
Appointments in andin one-to-one meetings between Ernst & Young LLP and members relation to the investment process are reviewed separately by the of the Committee, and concluded that the audit was effective.
Safeguards have been put in place to reduce the likelihood of compromising auditor independence, including the following During the year the Committee reviewed the Audit Quality Inspections principles which are applied in respect of services provided by the Annual Report and the Public Report on Ernst & Young LLP.
It also auditors and other accounting firms and monitored by the Committee: considered the audit plan for the year, which includes the use of Ernst&Young LLPs valuation practice to support the audit of the Services required to be undertaken by the auditors, which include portfoliovaluations.
regulatory returns, formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars.
This work is normally allocated directly to the auditors: Appointing the Auditor and Services which it is most efficient for the auditors to provide.
In this case, information relating to the service is largely derived from the safeguards on non-audit services Companys audited financial records: for example, corporate tax Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups statutory auditor since at least services.
This work is normally allocated to the auditors subject 1994 when 3i Group became listed.
The engagement audit partner was toconsideration of any impact on their independence: and rotated this year.
The Committee is aware of the new requirement to Services that could be provided by a number of firms including undertake a tender of the external audit every 10 years and change general consultancy work.
All significant consultancy projects are auditor at least every 20 years.
The Committee last reviewed the audit normally put out to tender and work would be allocated to the auditors market in 2008 and the audit fee structure in 2012. only if it did not present a potential threat to the independence of the The Committee has considered when to undertake a full tender.
Included in this category is due diligence work relating so it has had regard to the extent of change in the Group following the tothe investment process.
If this service were to be provided by the strategic review in June 2012, which included a significant reduction auditors, the specific team engaged would be independent of the inthe headcount in the Finance team, the implementation of the new audit team.
Private Equity financial system, a significant increase in reporting in Details of the fees paid to the auditors are disclosed in Note 5 to the accordance with the new requirements of AIFMD, EMIR, CRD IV and financial statements.
FATCA and the application of IFRS 10 in the current year.
A full tender willtherefore be conducted at an appropriate time between now and By order of the Board 2018, when the current audit partner will be due for rotation.
R H Meddings Chairman, Audit Committee 13 May 2014 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
