Governance Corporate governance statement This section of the Directors report contains the Meetings of the Board corporate governance statement required by FCA The Board is required to meet a minimum of four times a year.
Acalendar of seven scheduled main Board meetings was agreed at Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2. thestart of the year.
Due to the nature of the Boards close involvement in the operation of the Company and in making investment-related The Companys approach to corporate governance decisions, a number of further meetings are arranged from time to time The Company is committed to upholding the highest standards of at shorter notice.
During the year, there were seven main meetings of corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the UK the Board of Directors.
In addition to these meetings, there were three Corporate Governance Code, a copy of which is available from the full Board meetings arranged at short notice and two meetings of Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk, subject to the specifically formed committees to execute decisions arising from full FCAs Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2, and to the extent applicable to the Company, Board meetings.
The Directors attendance at main Board meetings given that it hasno Executive Directors.
The Code applies to all isset out in the table below: companies with aPremium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, Directors attendance Number of irrespective oftheircountry of incorporation.
year to 31 March 2014 meetings Attendance The Company complied with all the applicable provisions of the Code Peter Sedgwick 7 7 forthe financial year ending 31 March 2014.
Philip Austin 7 7 The Board has adopted a code of Directors dealings in ordinary shares, Sir John Collins 7 7 which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings contained in 1 Ben Loomes 5 5 the Listing Rules the Model Code.
The Board is responsible for taking 2 all proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Model Paul Masterton 7 7 3 Code by the Directors.
Florence Pierre 2 2 4 Paul Waller 2 2 The Boards responsibilities and processes Steven Wilderspin 7 7 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management 1 Served from 9 July 2013 to 16 April 2014. of the Company.
It determines matters including financial strategy and 2 Served from 4 April 2013. planning and takes all investment decisions, taking into account the 3 Served until 9 July 2013. advice it receives from the Investment Adviser.
The Board has put in 4 Served until 9 July 2013. place an organisational structure to ensure the efficient performance ofits responsibilities.
This is further described under the heading The Boards responsibilities and business model to deliver the Internal control.
Companys strategy is set out on page 10 of the Strategic report.
Theprincipal matters considered by the Board during the year Matters reserved for the Board inrelation to those responsibilities included the following: The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved Strategy and portfolio balance toitand the Audit Committee for decision.
The matters reserved review of the Companys strategy, following the update of return fortheBoard include: targets in the previous year, which included a review of its market approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and annual positioning, geographic and investment strategy and analysis of the operating budget: primary PPP asset class and the Companys target exposure to this sector.
The Board concluded that it should continue to focus on core approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial infrastructure and that at least 75% of the Companys portfolio will statements and changes in the Companys accounting policies remain invested in core infrastructure assets: orpractices: regular reviews of portfolio asset performance, including the approval of changes relating to the capital structure of the Company underlying performance of assets within the India Fund: and or its regulated status: review of the recommendations of the Investment Adviser approval of the appointment and removal of the Investment Adviser onthevaluation of portfolio investments.
and annual review and continued approval of key agreements with service providers, including the Investment Advisory Agreement Add selectively to the portfolio with3i Investments plc: approval of new investment decisions, including the decision to invest in XLT and in the NMM and Mersey Gateway Bridge PPP projects: and approval of major changes in the nature of business operations orinvestment policy: review of regular reports from the Investment Adviser relating totheinfrastructure market and early stage work-in-progress.
approval of investments and divestments: approval of portfolio company valuations and review of the performance and plans for each portfolio company: review of the adequacy of internal control systems, including thoseoperated by independent service providers: and appointments to the Board and determination of terms ofappointment of Directors.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 55 Governance Corporate governance statement the Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairman: and Financial management approval of the renewal of the Companys revolving credit facility the chairman of the Audit Committee led a review of the Audit anda review of the management of the Companys liquidity and its Committee.
liquidity policy: The results of the processes were formally reported to the Board and ongoing review of foreign exchange hedging with specific reviews Audit Committee respectively.
All Board members, as well as a number conducted into the options for Indian rupee hedging during a period of members of the Investment Adviser, gave personal views and ofsignificant Indian rupee depreciation and the decision to broaden feedback was presented to the Board.
the Companys Singapore dollar hedging programme: and Following the completion of the above process, the Board noted that the approval of the Companys annual budget.
results of the exercise showed a high overall degree of satisfaction with the operation of the Board and interaction with the Investment Adviser.
Manage relations with the Investment Adviser approval of amendments to the Investment Advisory Agreement The following recommendations were also made: following the process to agree new terms undertaken by the to review Board procedures in relation to information requirements Chairman and Senior Independent Director: and and Board decision making in relation to smaller value PPP assets, review of the impact of team changes within the Investment Adviser following the increase in smaller PPP assets added to the work-infollowing: i new appointments to the Infrastructure team leadership progress pipeline this financial year and expected to be added to the at 3i Investments plc: and ii 3is acquisition of the Barclays portfolio in subsequent years: and Infrastructure Funds Management business.
to increase the level of infrastructure transaction market analysis available to the Board, to include a regular review of any core Other matters considered by the Board infrastructure transactions that the Investment Adviser does not the Board undertook a review of companies offering Corporate recommend that the Company pursues and, where possible, a report Administration and Company Secretary services in Jersey.
Following on transactions for which the Company made a final offer but was a competitive tender process, it approved the appointment of Capita not successful in acquiring the asset.
Financial Administrators Jersey Limited as its new Corporate Administrator and Company Secretary: Investment Adviser the Board received updates to UK and Jersey law and regulations The Board has a Management Engagement Committee comprising andconsidered their impact on the Company, including specifically allBoard members, with the exception of Ben Loomes, the 3i Group matters relating to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers nominee Director who served until 16 April 2014 and Ian Lobley, Directive, Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act and Non Mainstream who served as the 3i Group nominee Director from 6 May 2014, Pooled Investment rules.
These are detailed further onpage 53: and which carries out the annual evaluation of the Investment Adviser required under the Listing Rules and which manages the relationship the Board considered the market practice for offering a scrip with the Investment Adviser on behalf of the Company.
During the year, dividend alternative to shareholders.
the Committee assessed the performance of the Investment Adviser In addition, the Chairman represents the Company on the advisory and supported the Board in thedecisions relating to the amendments to board of the India Fund and participated in two meetings of that board the Investment Advisory Agreement, described on page 52.
Following inIndia in the past year, as well as the India Funds annual investor its assessment of theInvestment Adviser, the Directors believe that the meeting, which were attended by the Investment Advisers team and continued appointment of the Investment Adviser on the revised terms included a presentation from an external speaker covering an overview set out onpage 52 is in the interest of shareholders, based on the of the Indian economy.
performance of the Investment Adviser.
Information Appointment and re-election of Directors Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner The Companys Articles of Association the Articles provide for: inpreparation for Board and committee meetings.
These papers are a Directors to retire at the first AGM after their appointment by the supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors Board and for the number nearest to, but not exceeding, one-third from time to time.
oftheremaining Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM: and Performance evaluation b all Directors to retire at least every three years.
Board Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, however, all directors of During the year, the Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by performance and that of its committees.
This was an internal exercise shareholders.
As a result, all Directors will voluntarily retire and stand following the full external review conducted by Tracy Long of for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM see below.
Boardroom Review, an independent specialist consultancy, in 2012.
Following his appointment as Managing Partner and Co-head of Theevaluation this year considered, amongst other factors, the balance 3i Groups Infrastructure business on 12 February 2014, Ben Loomes of skills, experience and knowledge of the Company of Board members.
indicated that he wished to resign from the Board.
Consent for his It also considered the operational effectiveness of the Board, given resignation was received from the Jersey Financial Services Council theprospect of the Board processing and managing information for on16 April 2014.
3i Group exercised itsright under the Relationship arelatively high number of smaller value primary PPP assets as a Agreement to nominate a successor to BenLoomes to be the 3i Group result of the Investment Advisers enhanced origination capability.
nominated Director to the Company, and nominated Ian Lobley.
Consent As part of the review: for his appointment was received from the Jersey Financial Services Commission on 6 May 2014.
Ian Lobley will be seeking shareholder the Chairman led a review of the performance of the Board and its approval for his appointment at the 2014 AGM.
Committees, as well as of individual Directors: 56 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance The Directors appointment can be terminated, without compensation The Chairman for loss of office, in accordance with the Articles.
Under the Articles, The Chairman, Peter Sedgwick, leads the Board in the determination their appointments can inter alia be terminated on notice from the and implementation ofits strategy.
The Chairman isresponsible for other members of the Board, and also on ceasing to be a Director organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and iftheyfail to be re-elected at any Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman also acts as a manager the equivalent In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as Directors, the of a director of 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and Directors are expected to bring an independent judgment to bear on 3iInfrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. which are subsidiaries of the issues of strategy, performance, investment appraisal and standards Company and is the Companys appointed member to the Advisory ofconduct.
They are also expected to ensure high standards of financial Board for the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
He receives no additional probity on the part of the Company.
As well as papers for Board remuneration for these roles.
The Chairman facilitates the effective meetings, the Directors receive monthly management accounts, contribution of all the Directors and constructive relations between reports and information which enable them to scrutinise the theCompanys advisers, including the Investment Adviser, and the Companysperformance against agreed objectives.
The Chairman maintains direct links with the Companys advisers and ensures that regular reports from them are circulated to the Directors to enable the Directors to remain aware of shareholders Directors independence views.
The Chairman ensures, with the co-operation of the Investment All the Directors, with the exception of Ian Lobley, who was appointed Adviser, that a programme of effective communications is available for asthe 3i Group nominee to the Board with effect from 6 May 2014, shareholders, including with the Chairman and Senior Independent areconsidered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Director, when shareholders so wish.
The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of theDirectors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance Senior Independent Director and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
No Director was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting Philip Austin is the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with the during or at the end of the financial year in relation to the business of Code, any concerns can be conveyed to the Senior Independent Director.
The contact details of the Senior Independent Director are freely available on the Companys website or through the Company Secretary.
As non-independent Directors who served during part of the year and who were not members of the Management Engagement Committee, Directors Paul Waller and Ben Loomes did not participate inthe Boards The Board comprises the Chairman and five non-executive Directors.
evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page 51.
All Directors served throughout the year under review, with the Training and development exception of Paul Waller and Florence Pierre, who resigned from the The Company has developed a framework within which training Board at the Companys AGM on 9 July 2013, Ben Loomes, who was forDirectors is planned, with the objective of ensuring that the Directors appointed to the Board on 9 July 2013 and whose resignation took effect understand the duties and responsibilities of being a director of a listed on 16 April 2014, and Ian Lobley, who was appointed with effect from company and the business environment of the Company.
All Directors 6 May 2014 see page 56. are required to continually update their skills and maintain their No Director has a service contract with the Company, nor are any such familiarity with the Company and its business.
The Directors were appointed as non-executive different aspects of the Companys business are made regularly Directors by the subscribers to the Memorandum of Association of the totheBoard, usually by the Investment Adviser.
Company or at subsequent Board meetings.
Their appointment was On appointment, all Directors have discussions with the Chairman confirmed by letters dated 29 January 2007 in the case of Peter andCompany Secretary, following which appropriate briefings on Sedgwick and Philip Austin, 20 September 2007 in the case of Steven theresponsibilities of Directors, the Companys business and the Wilderspin, 27 November 2008in the case of Sir John Collins, 19 March Companys procedures and, where appropriate, briefings on the 2013 in the case of Paul Masterton and 26 July 2013 in the case of Ben infrastructure market are arranged.
Appointment letters for Directors were updated following the opportunities for Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2011 in order to bring them Companys business and the industry it operates in by meeting senior into line with the requirements of the Code.
The letters were refreshed members of the investment advisory team who in turn can arrange, in November 2012 to reflect the best practice guidelines published asrequired, visits to portfolio investments or support teams.
inDecember 2011 by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The current letters are dated 5 September 2013 This year, the Directors also received presentations on aspects of inthecase of Steven Wilderspin, 7 December 2011 in the case of theinfrastructure market and met with a transaction specialist in SirJohn Collins, 13 December 2012 in the case of Peter Sedgwick theinfrastructure market who has advised on several key recent and13 December 2012 in the case of Philip Austin.
All current Directors infrastructure transactions in the European market.
The Board also were elected or re-elected at the 2013 AGM.
Following the formal received briefings on legal updates in relation to changes to laws appraisal process ofDirectors, and in accordance with Section B.
7.2 andregulations in Jersey and the UK.
ofthe Code, the Chairman will propose the re-election or election of all The Directors, and specifically members of the Audit Committee, Directors attheforthcoming AGM.
attended a number of seminars, meetings and conferences on Copies of the appointment letters are available from the Company governance, regulation, including the introduction of the AIFMD and the Secretary upon request.
introduction ofthe Strategic Report as required by the Companies Act 2006.
TheChairman attended a number of externally facilitated meetings oncorporate governance.
The Company has procedures for Directors totake independent legal or other professional advice about the performance of their duties.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 57 Governance Corporate governance statement The Committee has been reviewing succession planning, to ensure that The Boards committees processes and plans are in place with regards to Board appointments The Board is assisted by various standing committees which report dealing with succession.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out below.
regularly to the Board and reviews the membership of these committees on a regular basis.
Diversity The Companys policy is to have a Board with a diverse range of skills, The Boards committees all have clearly defined terms of reference professional backgrounds and gender.
To that end it will continue to which are available at www.
The terms of ensure that in making appointments to the Board it, and any executive reference of the Audit Committee, of the Nominations Committee, search firm that assists it, will consider a wide range of candidates oftheRemuneration Committee and of the Management Engagement fromdifferent backgrounds while making appointments solely Committee provide that no one other than the particular committee onmeritand which meet the objectives of its policy on diversity, chairman and members may attend meetings, unless invited to attend includinggender.
In the majority of years since the Companys IPO there has been one Audit Committee ormore female members of the Board.
However, since the resignation The Audit Committee, chaired by Steven Wilderspin, in the year under of Florence Pierre on 9 July 2013, there is currently no female review also comprised Philip Austin, Sir John Collins, Paul Masterton memberof the Board.
Therefore, in line with its policy objectives, the and Florence Pierre.
All members served throughout the year, except Nominations Committee will continue to search for a suitable female for Paul Masterton, who was appointed on 1 June 2013, and Florence candidate for future appointments.
Pierre, who served until her resignation on 9 July 2013.
The qualifications of the members of the Audit Committee are set out inthe biographical Investment Committee details of the Directors on page 51.
All the members of the Audit As outlined on page 50, the Board as a whole acts as the Investment Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
issatisfied that the Audit Committee chairman, Steven Wilderspin, hasrecent and relevant financial experience and is a qualified Management Engagement Committee Chartered Accountant.
The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Peter Sedgwick and, in the year under review, comprised Philip Austin, Sir John Collins, During the year to 31 March 2014, there were five meetings of the Steven Wilderspin and Florence Pierre, until her resignation from AuditCommittee, attended by all members.
A report from the Audit theBoard on 9 July 2013.
Paul Masterton joined the Management Committee is set out on page 60.
Engagement Committee upon his appointment as a Director on4 April2013.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Philip Austin, is charged While the remit of the Committee is to manage all aspects of the withreviewing the scale and structure of the non-executive Directors relationship with the Investment Adviser, its principal function is remuneration, and for the year under review was constituted by all the toconsider annually, and recommend to the Board, whether the independent non-executive Directors Peter Sedgwick, Philip Austin, continued appointment of the Investment Adviser is in the best Steven Wilderspin, Sir John Collins, Paul Masterton and Florence interestof the Company and its shareholders and to give reasons Pierre.
All members served throughout the year, except for Paul foritsrecommendation.
The Committee also reviews the terms Masterton, who was appointed on 4 April 2013, and Florence Pierre, oftheInvestment Advisory Agreement.
who served until her resignation on 9 July 2013.
The Remuneration During the year, there were four meetings of the Management Committee had two meetings in the year to 31 March 2014, attended Engagement Committee, attended by all members.
In those meetings, byall members.
A report from the Remuneration Committee is set the Committee monitored the overall relationship and among specific outon page 61. topics it: Nominations Committee considered the amendments to the Investment Advisory Agreement: The Nominations Committee, chaired by Peter Sedgwick, in the year under review comprised Philip Austin and Sir John Collins, who served reviewed reports from industry analysts, comparing the throughout the year.
Paul Masterton was appointed to this Committee performance of listed infrastructure investment companies, on 1 May 2014, replacing Sir John Collins, who served until that date.
including an analysis of the terms of their advisory agreements The Committee held two scheduled meetings in the year to31 March andfees charged: 2014, attended by all members.
In addition, there were several informal monitored and reviewed the Investment Advisers performance discussions held between the members in relation to matters agreed against the Companys targets and general market conditions: atscheduled meetings.
reviewed the quality, timeliness, accuracy and relevance of the The Committee is responsible for adopting a formal and transparent information provided to the Board, including reviews of portfolio procedure for the appointment of new Directors, including interviewing company performance: and potential candidates.
Final decisions on nominations, however, are takenby the entire Board.
The Nominations Committee can avail itself reviewed non-investment services provided by the Investment Adviser.
oftheservices of external search consultancies.
During the year, the Nominations Committee approved the nomination of Ian Lobley as The Company Secretary 3iGroup nominee Director, following 3i Groups recommendation.
State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited acted as Company Secretary As this was a 3i Group nomination, no external search consultancy throughout the year.
On 1 April 2014, the Company announced that it oropen advertising were used.
had appointed Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited as its new Corporate Administrator and Company Secretary and, as a result, As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and experience, the Companys registered office has also changed.
The new registered especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations process has to office address is set out on page 54.
The Companys Articles and take account of the residence of Directors, as the majority of Directors the schedule of matters reserved for the Board or its duly authorised have to be non-resident in the UK.
For practical reasons relating to the committees for decision provide that the appointment and removal conduct of the Companys affairs, most Directors are resident in the ofthe Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
58 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Afull review and tender process was conducted to appoint the the Board considers and approves the Companys strategy and Corporate Administrator and Company Secretary, to which State approves a budget on an annual basis: StreetSecretaries Jersey Limited were invited to participate.
reports on the planning, forecasting and controlling of expenditure All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company and the making of investments are regularly submitted to the Board Secretary and legal advisers to the Company, who advise the Board, and reviewed in detail: through the Chairman, on governance matters.
the Investment Advisers procedures for evaluating investments include detailed appraisals and due diligence that are reviewed Relations with shareholders bytheBoard as appropriate: The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a good the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare valuations relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Chairman maintains and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the a dialogue with shareholders on strategy and corporate governance Companys activities and review its performance: asrequired.
Shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with theChairman and with the Senior Independent Director.
In May 2014, the Investment Advisers compliance and internal audit departments asmall number of significant shareholders based on the size of their continually review the Investment Advisers operations.
The Audit shareholdings were consulted as part of the process to agree the Committee has access to relevant sections of their reports: amendments to the Investment Advisory Agreement.
the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare the Senior members of the investment advisory team also meet with half-yearly and annual accounts of the Group and monitor all theCompanys principal institutional shareholders to discuss the associated financial reporting processes that are reviewed by Companys performance.
theBoard as appropriate: and The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers and other the Investment Adviser and the service providers notify the advisers on shareholder issues.
Boardofany changes in accounting standards which may impact theCompanys significant accounting policies or any other At the AGM, business presentations are made by the Chairman and  which may subsequently impact the senior members of the investment advisory team.
The chairman of the financialstatements.
Audit Committee is also available to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of AGM for 2013 was dispatched to shareholders not less The Company does not have a separate internal audit function as than 20 working days before the meeting.
At that meeting, voting on itisnot deemed appropriate given the structure of the Company, each resolution was taken on a poll and the results were made available althoughthis is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Principles and processes Portfolio management and voting policy The Company adopts a set of core values and controls, which include: In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys approach is to seek a planning framework which incorporates a Board-approved to add value to the businesses in which it invests through the extensive medium-term strategy: experience, resources and contacts of the investment advisory team.
Inrelation to quoted equity investments, the Companys policy is to formal business and operating risk reviews which evaluate the exercise voting rights on matters affecting the interests of the Company.
potential financial impact and likelihood of identified risks and possible new risk areas: Internal control the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups own system of thereview of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learned: internal control.
The Audit Committee performed its annual review of a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, the systems effectiveness and reported its conclusions to the Board.
basedonan annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, The internal control system is designed to manage rather than analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance measures and eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can regular reforecasting: provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the funding requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the volume The Board has contractually delegated investment advisory and of liquidity and record the level of compliance with the Companys support services to its key service providers and their contractual funding objectives: obligations encompass the implementation of systems of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval of risk management.
The Audit Committee of the Company receives investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval reports on the control systems and their operation from its main procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular service providers, and is responsible for reviewing these reports post-investment reviews: and fordetermining the effectiveness of internal controls.
an Audit Committee which considers significant control matters and In addition, the Board regularly reviews the principal risks faced receives relevant reports from key service providers compliance, bytheCompany and any entries in the Companys risk log.
control or internal audit functions.
Key procedures designed to provide effective internal control for theyear under review and up to the date of this Report include: the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services agreements specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Adviser and the service providers.
These agreements set out information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys investments and their performance: 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 59
