Board of directors 2 Roger Cornick Martin Gilbert Chief Executive Chairman Background and experience Background and experience Before coming to Aberdeen, Roger was with Perpetual PLC Martin trained as a chartered accountant prior to moving into for over 20 years where, latterly, he served as deputy chairman.
investment management with an Aberdeen firm of solicitors.
He Roger has over 30 years experience of marketing and distribution is a founding director and shareholder of the Company.
Martin in financial services and is currently a trustee of the River and is a director of a number of Aberdeen managed investment Rowing Museum.
Martin is also chairman of the PRA Practitioner Panel, and member of the Scottish Government's Date of appointment Financial Services Advisory Board, the Financial Services Trade and Roger was appointed to the Board as an independent nonInvestment Board, and the Monetary Authority of Singapores executive director on 23 January 2004 and was appointed International Advisory Panel.
Roger is also chairman of the nominations committee.
Date of appointment Martin was appointed to the Board on 1 July 1983.
Other appointments The River and Rowing Museum trustee Other appointments British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC senior non-executive director 2, 3, 4 Simon Troughton Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Simon was a partner at Cazenove and Company Limited before moving to Fauchier Partners in 2003 where he became chief operating officer.
He qualified as a chartered surveyor having read Land Economy at Cambridge University.
Date of appointment Simon was appointed to the Board on 29 July 2009 and is chairman of the remuneration committee.
Other appointments Redburn Partners Holding Company Limited non-executive director 52 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance 1, 4 Julie Chakraverty Rod MacRae Independent Non-Executive Group Head of Risk Director Background and experience Background and experience Julie was formerly a board member of UBS Investment Bank and Rod is responsible for UK and global risk including regulatory a non-executive director of the insurance company Paternoster.
compliance, legal services, business and market risk.
Rod Within UBS, she held a number of global leadership positions with joined Aberdeen in 2003, following the acquisition of a specialised background in risk management and fixed income.
She started her financial career 20 years ago at JP Morgan, after He graduated with an MA in Economics from the University graduating with first class honours in Economics from St Johns of Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute of Chartered College, Cambridge.
Rod is a director of a number of Date of appointment Group subsidiary companies.
Julie was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2011.
Date of appointment Other appointments Rod was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2012.
Spirit Pub Company PLC non-executive director Amlin plc non-executive director 1, 3, 4 Andrew Laing Richard Mully Deputy Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Andrew joined the Group in 1986 with responsibility for private Richard was formerly the co-founder and managing partner of equity investment.
Andrew was subsequently appointed Chief Grove International Partners LLP, a major real estate private equity Operating Officer.
Prior to joining Aberdeen, Andrew practiced firm.
He spent much of his 30 year career in financial services as an commercial law and was a private equity fund manager investment banker.
Richard graduated with first class honours in in Edinburgh.
Economics from University College London and also holds an MBA in Finance.
He graduated from the University of Aberdeen with an MA in Politics and International Relations, and an LLB.
Andrew serves Date of appointment on the board of the Investment Management Association and Richard was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2012 and is is also a director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
chairman of the risk committee.
Date of appointment Other appointments Andrew was originally appointed to the Board in 1987 and then Hansteen Holdings PLC senior non-executive director again on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Deputy Chief ISG PLC senior non-executive director Executive in 2008.
Alstria Office REIT-AG supervisory board member St. Modwen Properties PLC senior non-executive director aberdeen-asset.
com 53 Board of directors continued 1, 2, 4 Jim Pettigrew Anne Richards Independent Non-Executive Chief Investment Officer Director Background and experience Background and experience Jim was formerly chief executive of CMC Markets Plc.
Prior to Anne is Chief Investment Officer and Head of the EMEA region.
joining CMC, he was chief operating officer and finance director Prior to Aberdeen, she worked for Merrill Lynch and Edinburgh at Ashmore Group plc, chief financial officer of ICAP Plc from Fund Managers, where she was chief investment officer and 1999-2006 and group treasurer at Sedgwick Group plc.
Jim is joint managing director.
Anne graduated with first class honours vice president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of in Electronics and Electrical Engineering from the University of Scotland and is an LLB.
Edinburgh, and has an MBA from Insead.
Anne is a member of the FCA Practitioner Panel.
"She was appointed a Commander of the Date of appointment Royal Victorian Order ""CVO"" in June 2014."
Jim was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2010 and is chairman of the audit committee.
Date of appointment Anne was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Other appointments The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc chairman Other appointments Clydesdale Bank plc chairman The Council of the Duchy of Lancaster council member Crest Nicholson Holdings plc senior non-executive director The University of Edinburgh vice convener and chairman of remuneration committee esure Group plc non-executive director RBC Europe Limited deputy chairman CERN and Society Foundation chair 1, 3 Bill Rattray Jutta af Rosenborg Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Bill joined the Group in 1985 as Company Secretary and Jutta was formerly Chief Financial Officer for ALK-Abello A S, a global pharmaceutical company, headquartered in Denmark subsequently became Group Financial Controller.
Prior to and a non-executive director of Carnegie WorldWide Investment joining the Group, Bill trained as a chartered accountant Fund.
Jutta has spent most of her career in finance, having with Ernst & Whinney in Aberdeen, qualifying in 1982.
Bill originally qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte before is a director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
establishing her own auditing and consulting business.
Jutta has Date of appointment a masters degree in business economics and auditing from the Bill was appointed to the Board on 31 January 1991.
Date of appointment Jutta was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2013.
Other appointments Det Danske Klasselotteri A S chairman Auriga Industries A S non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee 54 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Akira Suzuki Hugh Young Non-Executive Director Global Head of Equities Background and experience Background and experience Akira joined Aberdeen through the business and capital alliance Hugh is Global Head of Equities and Managing Director of with Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation.
Akira has a Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited.
He founded Singapore Bachelor of Law degree from Keio University.
Following graduation based Aberdeen Asia in 1992 and has been managing the Groups Akira joined Mitsubishi and has undertaken a wide variety of Asian equities since 1985.
Hugh graduated with a BA in Politics roles, primarily in asset management and is currently Managing from Exeter University.
Hugh is a director of a number of Group Executive Officer and is based in Tokyo.
subsidiary companies and Aberdeen-managed investment trusts and funds boards.
Date of appointment Akira was appointed to the Board on 29 August 2013.
Date of appointment Hugh was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Other appointments AMP Capital Holdings Limited 1 Member of the audit committee.
2 Member of the nominations committee.
3 Member of the remuneration committee.
4 Member of the risk committee.
