Corporate governance report The Board, having given thorough consideration to the matter, In this section considers the other five non-executive directors to be independent.
UK Corporate Governance Code 58 Anita Frew joined the Board in 2004 and served on the Board Board composition 58 until 30 September 2014.
Anita Frew had served on the Board for Board effectiveness 58 more than nine years by the date of her retirement and for part Relationships with shareholders 59 of this time she also served as a director of Lloyds Banking Group.
Board evaluation 59 Taking into consideration Anitas independence of character and Training and induction 59 judgement, her asset management knowledge and significant Risk management 60 major plc board experience, the Board is of the opinion that Anita Board committees 61 remained an independent non-executive director until the date of her retirement.
"UK Corporate Governance Code Board changes The FRC published a new edition of the UK Corporate The Board has given careful consideration to its structure and Governance Code in September 2012 that applies to reporting balance and is continuing to refresh Board and committee periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012 ""the 2012 Code""."
membership in an orderly manner.
As mentioned, Anita Frew The Group continued to choose to adopt the new provisions for stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2014 and the the year under review.
At the time or writing this annual report, the process to identify a new independent non-executive director Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange had not been updated is nearing completion and we expect to be able to make an to recognise the issuance of the 2012 Code and, therefore, we announcement in the near future.
"remain obliged to report on our compliance with the previous We did not comply during the year, nor do we currently comply, version of the UK Corporate Governance Code which was issued in with the Code requirements on the number of independent May 2011 ""the Code""."
The Board remains of the opinion that its size and The Group has complied throughout the year with both the Code composition should reflect the needs of the business and seeks to and the 2012 Code except where noted in the report below.
This achieve this in compliance with the Code.
report describes Aberdeens corporate governance arrangements, Board effectiveness explaining how the Group has applied the principles of the Code.
Summary of Board meetings The Board met eight times during the year to review financial Board composition performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule The Board currently comprises the Chairman, six non-executive of matters reserved for its decision, which includes the directors and six executive directors: additionally, Anita Frew setting of Group goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
served as a non-executive director throughout the year to 30 Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda and formal September 2014.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive reports and briefing papers, are sent to directors in advance of are separate, clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
Directors are continually updated with written The Chairman, Roger Cornick, is responsible for the leadership of and oral reports, from senior executives and external advisors.
the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its Topics include the Groups business and the competitive and role.
The Chief Executive, Martin Gilbert, is responsible for the day regulatory environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, to day management of the Group.
environmental, social, governance and other relevant matters.
In Simon Troughton was appointed as the Senior Independent addition, the Board regularly receives briefings and presentations Director, following the retirement from the Board of Anita Frew on from senior executives, local management and external advisors 30 September 2014.
The role of the Senior Independent Director covering a wide range of topics relevant to the Groups business.
is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an The Board visits the key overseas offices to meet local intermediary for the other directors, where necessary.
management and clients and to obtain an understanding of the Further information regarding the experience of the Board is given local business environment.
The Board visited the Singapore, in their biographies on pages 52 to 55.
All directors are subject to Philadelphia and New York offices during the year and directors annual election by shareholders.
also visited other overseas offices on an individual basis to meet with local management and staff.
Whilst in Singapore, several Independence members of the Board took advantage of the location to visit the In considering director independence, the Board has taken Sydney office.
into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
Of the non-executive directors, Akira Suzuki has been appointed by On each of these overseas visits, the Board has received a significant shareholder, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking presentations from local and regional management on local and Corporation, and he is therefore not considered to be independent.
regional business conditions and 'at desk' presentations from the local business teams.
58 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Details of the individual directors attendance at Board meetings Conflicts of interest are shown in the table below: The Board confirms that it has considered and authorised any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the Maximum Groups existing procedures and has also implemented specific possible Meetings guidelines to address any potential conflicts that may arise attendance attended in the future.
The Board has specifically considered the other appointments held by directors, details of which are contained Roger Cornick 8 8 in their biographies on pages 52 to 55, and has confirmed that Martin Gilbert 8 8 it believes that each is able to devote sufficient time to fulfil the Anita Frew 8 8 duties required of them under the terms of their contracts or letters of appointment.
Julie Chakraverty 8 8 Andrew Laing 8 8 Board evaluation Rod MacRae 8 8 A formal process has been established, led by the Chairman, Richard Mully 8 8 for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its appointed committees and each director, to ensure that they Jim Pettigrew 8 8 continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their Bill Rattray 8 8 respective duties, and to identify any training requirements.
Anne Richards 8 8 This years evaluation has been undertaken with the assistance Jutta af Rosenborg 8 8 of an external consultant, Independent Board Evaluation.
The Akira Suzuki 8 8 consultant met with each Director and other senior members of Simon Troughton 8 8 the executive management.
The results of the discussions were Hugh Young 8 8 discussed by the Board and its Committees.
A number of matters for consideration arose from the exercise including reviewing board and committee agendas to ensure they Relationships with shareholders continued to focus on the matters of importance and that time is The Group communicates regularly with institutional shareholders, made available for 'blue-sky thinking': reviewing the relationships analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual and between the Board and the Group management board: and interim reports and interim management statements are widely looking to enhance and improve the reporting from the key distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the business divisions.
Groups performance and these documents, together with copies The non-executive directors also met without the Chairman of investor presentations, are also made available on the website.
present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the Chairmans The Chief Executive and Finance Director report at each Board performance, having taken into consideration the views of meeting on investor relations and on specific discussions with the executive directors, and the results of this meeting were major shareholders and the Board receives copies of all research subsequently discussed between the Senior Independent Director published on the Group.
Investors are encouraged to attend the and the Chairman.
Additionally, the Chairman and the nonAnnual General Meeting at which they have an opportunity to executive directors held a meeting without the executive directors ask questions.
present at which the executive directors performance was discussed.
The Chairman met with each director to discuss this and The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all performance in the year.
directors and the chairmen of each of the Board committees are available to answer questions.
The Group continues to offer Training and induction major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of the New directors appointed to the Board are provided with a formal Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the chairman of the and tailored induction to assist in gaining a detailed understanding remuneration committee and any new directors.
of the Group, its activities and the regulatory and competitive The Group will continue its policy of announcing the number of environment in which it operates.
The induction process includes proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting meeting with the executive directors, the members of the Group and any other general meetings.
The Senior Independent Director management board, other senior executives and external advisers is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact as well as receiving information from past meetings.
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued The Board, its committees and each director has access respond quickly to emerging risks within the Group and the to independent professional advice, if required, at the external business environment: and Companys expense, as well as to the advice and services of include procedures for reporting any control failings or the Company Secretary.
weaknesses to the appropriate level of management together The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is with the details of corrective action.
responsible for facilitating this induction programme, ensuring A review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and good information flow between the Board, its committees and internal control systems has been carried out through the work management, and assisting with directors continuing professional and operations of the audit and risk committees.
Directors are also advised, at the time of their appointment, of the legal and other duties and obligations arising The risk management committee oversees the system of controls from the role of a director of a listed company and are reminded within the day-to-day operations of the Group and monitors of these duties and obligations on a regular basis.
All directors the Groups culture, and clarity of responsibility of roles over risk are obliged to undertake a minimum of 35 hours of continuing areas.
The committee reports on and monitors critical risks, issues professional development annually, of which at least 21 hours and high priority projects.
It serves to reconcile the key risks and must comprise structured learning.
issues identified by the business with those raised by the Groups monitoring functions.
This provides assurance to the Board that The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of risks and issues are adequately escalated and managed.
legal action against its directors.
Membership of the committee comprises executive directors and Risk management senior management from all business functions.
The committee Risk management is implemented from the top down, starting meetings are also attended by the heads of the primary control at Board and GMB level, through to the individual operational oversight functions.
The roles of these functions are as follows: departments.
The audit and risk committees support the Board in the compliance team monitors compliance with regulatory discharging its oversight duties with regard to internal control, risk requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates: management and capital adequacy.
These committees also have responsibility for ensuring that the Group strategy is appropriate the legal team is responsible for ensuring that the Group and aligned with the Boards risk appetite, as set out in a formal complies with statutory requirements globally: Board statement.
the business risk department is responsible for the management and oversight of operational risk: The attitudes to risk agreed at Board and committee discussions are fed through to the planning processes for the individual the market risk team covers the risk profiles within the business units.
"The Board is also responsible for the Internal Capital various investment strategies as well as the credit risk Adequacy Assessment Process ""ICAAP"", a process required by the associated with the counterparties with whom Aberdeen UK regulator, which summarises the risk management framework conducts its business: and and regulatory capital requirements of the Group."
the internal audit function reviews the effectiveness of all This is closely linked to the Groups strategic planning and capital controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of the management exercises.
other independent monitoring functions, or by directly auditing Internal control the controls operated by management.
The risk management framework includes a sound system of The heads of business risk and market risk each report directly to internal controls that are designed to: the Group Head of Risk while the heads of legal and compliance report to the General Counsel.
The Group Head of Risk who, identify and appraise all risks related to achieving the Groups while also a director of the Group, reports to the Chief Executive objectives including all business, operational, reputational, and also attends and reports at meetings of the risk and the financial and regulatory risks: audit committees.
manage and control risk appropriately rather than eliminate it: The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chief Executive provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material as well as having unrestricted access to the chairman of the misstatement or loss: audit committee.
be embedded within the business processes and form part of the More information on the risk management framework and specific Groups culture, which emphasises clear management risks facing the Group can be found on pages 44 to 47. responsibility and accountabilities: 60 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
