"Group management board The Group management board ""GMB"" comprises the six executive directors, plus the following members of senior management: John Brett Bev Hendry Mandy Pike Global Head of Distribution Co-Head of Americas and Global Head of Dealing John joined Aberdeen on 1 November Chief Financial Officer Mandy is the Global Head of Dealing, 2011 as Global Head of Distribution."
He Bev was appointed Co-Head of Americas covering all listed securities, including joined from Scottish Widows Investment and Chief Financial Officer in July 2014. equities, fixed interest, cash, FX and Partnership where latterly he was head He first joined Aberdeen in 1987 and derivatives.
Previously, Mandy worked of distribution.
John was previously with helped establish Aberdeens business in the as a trader at F&C Asset Management, Aberdeen until 2003 as Head of Legal.
Bev re-joined Aberdeen from and before that at BNP Capital Markets.
John is a qualified lawyer, having graduated Hansberger Global Investors where he has Her City career began at Grieveson Grant LLB from the University of Aberdeen.
worked for six years as Chief Operating in the private client department.
Bev is a Chartered Accountant and Gordon Brough Andrew Smith graduated with an MA in Economics from General Counsel & Deputy Group Head the University of Aberdeen.
Co-Head of Americas and of Risk Chief Operating Officer Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 Gary Marshall Andrew is the Co-Head of Americas and to head up the Groups legal function Chief Operating Officer.
He held various Chief Executive, SWIP having previously been the partner roles since he joined Aberdeen in December Gary was appointed Chief Executive of SWIP responsible for the Groups affairs at Maclay 2000 including Chief Financial Officer in July 2014.
Gary joined Aberdeen in 1997 Murray & Spens LLP.
Gordon is qualified as for Aberdeen in the Americas.
Andrew and has had experience in many aspects of a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
Aberdeens operations, having been based in London and Edinburgh prior to serving Kerry Christie Archie Struthers as Head of Americas.
He graduated with a Global Head of Human Resources Global Head of Investment Solutions BSc Hons in Actuarial Mathematics and Kerry is Global Head of Human Resources Archie joined Aberdeen to lead investment Statistics from Heriot Watt University in and was appointed to the GMB in 2010. solutions in April 2014 having previously Edinburgh and is a qualified actuary.
She joined Aberdeen in March 2000 and developed SWIPs equivalent business.
was appointed Head of Human Resources Andrew McCaffery Prior to SWIP, Archie developed the in October 2003.
Kerry graduated from multi-asset client solutions business at Global Head of Alternatives Robert Gordon University with a BA in BlackRock which he joined in 2006 via their Public Administration and a postgraduate Andrew is responsible for our alternative acquisition of Merrill Lynch Investment diploma in Personnel Management.
capabilities including hedge funds, private Managers.
He has an MA Hons degree equity, infrastructure and property multi Brad Crombie in English Literature from the University manager.
Andrew joined Aberdeen in 2011 of Edinburgh.
Global Head of Fixed Income from BlueCrest Capital Management, Brad re-joined Aberdeen in 2012 after where he was a founder member of the Pertti Vanhanen starting in the Groups graduate trainee Alignment Investors division.
Andrew programme twelve years ago.
In the Global Head of Property joined the investment industry in 1983. interim, he worked at Bank of America Pertti has been managing director for Sean Phayre Merrill Lynch as a managing director, property asset management subsidiaries running the banks non-financial corporate for both Pension Ilmarinen and Pension Global Head of Quantitative Investments and high yield credit research team for the Varma in Finland.
Since he joined Aberdeen Sean began his investment career at EMEA region.
He graduated from McGill in 2002, Pertti has headed the Nordic Edinburgh Fund Managers which later University with BA and MA degrees and and European direct property business became Aberdeen Asset Management.
read history at the University of Cambridge.
and has later become the Head of Fund He established quantitative investment management Property division.
Pertti teams at both companies, and latterly Ken Fry holds an MBA and is a Fellow of the Royal was co-head of quantitative equities and Chief Operating Officer Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Sean holds a PhD in Ken graduated from the University of Statistics and Modelling Science, an MSc in Essex with a BA in Computer Science and Industrial Mathematics and a BSc Hons joined Aberdeen with the acquisition of in Mathematical Sciences, all from the Fredericks Place Holdings in 1989 as Group University of Strathclyde.
He was appointed to the GMB in 2006 as Chief Technology Officer and to his current role in 2008.
56 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
