GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE THE COMMITTEE HAS CONDUCTED A THOROUGH AND TRANSPARENT PROCESS TO APPOINT THREE NEW NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TO REFRESH MEMBERSHIP OF THEBOARDS COMMITTEES.
Gerald Corbett, Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Role of the Committee The process of identifying candidates for Board appointment The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and is led by the Committee.
Comprehensive candidate search briefs nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for are agreed.
An external executive search firm is engaged and appointment to the Board.
The Committee has written terms a shortlist of candidates is drawn up.
A number of shortlisted of reference which are available on the Companys website.
candidates are invited for meetings with Committee members as appropriate.
After these meetings, a review of the candidates Activities during the year takes place and the preferred candidates are recommended for The Committee met three times during the year.
Matters appointment to the Board.
considered by the Committee included: During the year, The Zygos Partnership which has no other anticipating Josh Hannahs retirement from the Board and connection with the Company managed the search process for implementing a search to identify an independent candidate all three of the Non-Executive Director appointments.
with appropriate financial experience, resulting in the appointment of Zillah Byng-Maddick as an independent Action plan Non-Executive Director: In the coming financial year, the Committees activities will include: considering the composition and balance of the Board and continuing to support the development of the Executive Team: implementing a search to identify independent candidates with considering the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors relevant commercial experience, resulting in the appointment seeking re-election at the 2014 AGM, taking into account ofLeo Quinn and Peter Rigby as independent Non-Executive theoutcome of the internal board evaluation: and Directors: and continuing to ensure that we plan for the evolution of the making recommendations to the Board for changes to Non-Executive Directors to maintain the appropriate mix Committee chairmanship and membership following the of skills.
departure of Fru Hazlitt and Mike McTighe from the Board, Close taking into account the relevant skills and experience of each We have conducted a thorough and transparent appointment ofthe Non-Executive Directors.
process for the recommendation of three new Directors Policy on appointments to the Board to the Board and have refreshed the membership of the All appointments are made on merit and measured against Boards Committees.
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity Gerald Corbett on the board.
The Board is committed to ensuring a broad mix Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee of gender, age, nationality, experience and skills throughout the business and that the composition of the Board itself is based on arange and balance of skills, knowledge, experience and merit andremains appropriate for a business of this size.
The Board has noted the contents of the Davies Report on Women on Boards inFebruary 2011 and Code revision to strengthen the principle of board diversity.
The Board does not believe that setting a target for the number of women on our Board is appropriate as all our appointments are made on merit.
42 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
