GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT that appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
Statement of compliance He is available to meet with shareholders at the AGM.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC issued a revised version ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in September The Chairman ensures that the Board has the right composition 2012, which is available on www.
The Board has and that the debate is effective and at the right level, involving all reviewed its governance arrangements against the revised Code, members, and that appropriate conclusions are drawn.
For Betfair, and considers that the Group complied with the main principles it is vital that the Chairman is accessible and can play an important of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 April 2014. role in providing support and wise counsel to the CEO and wider Inaddition, the Company complied with the main principles of management team.
The Chairman effectively challenges when theUK Corporate Governance Code 2010, as required by the required and takes a helicopter view of the business.
More detail is provided throughout this Chairman has a key role in instilling behaviours appropriate to statement which incorporates the Directors Report, Strategic a publicly listed company environment and is able to maintain Report and theDirectors Remuneration Report by reference.
relationships with shareholders and other stakeholders, as necessary.
The Chairman has a proven track record as a plc Provision B.
6.2 of the Code requires the evaluation of the board Chairman and currently acts as Chairman to two other publicly of FTSE 350 companies to be externally facilitated every three quoted companies.
Gerald Corbetts biography can be found years.
Due to the changes in the Board this year, the Board on page 37. decided to delay this external review until FY15.
An internal evaluation of Board effectiveness was completed instead.
Role of the CEO Breon Corcoran as CEO has responsibility for implementing the The role of the Board strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive management The Board is responsible for the strategic direction, development of the Group.
This includes responsibility for: and control of the Group.
It sets strategic aims and approves strategic plans and annual budgets, ensuring that the necessary developing and proposing the Group strategy, annual plans financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet andcommercial objectives to the Board, having regard to the its objectives.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, performance of past investments.
employees and other stakeholders: managing the Groups risk profile in line with the extent of risk It maintains an overview of the Groups operating and financial identified as acceptable by the Board and to ensure appropriate performance and monitors the Groups overall system of internal internal controls are in place: controls, governance and compliance.
ensuring the development needs of the Executive Directors The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters andsenior management are identified and met and ensuring whicharereserved for its decision.
This is published succession planning: ontheGroups corporate website at: effective communication with shareholders: and corporate.
aspx, appropriate, timely and accurate disclosure of information to the andincludes: market, with issues escalated promptly to the Market Disclosure determining the overall business and commercial strategy: Committee.
identifying long-term objectives: Role of the Senior Independent Director determining the Groups risk appetite: Ian Dyson was appointed as Senior Independent Director on reviewing the annual operating plan and budget: 1 April 2014, replacing Mike McTighe who retired from the Board considering all matters relating to major Group policy and on 31 March 2014.
Ian is available to shareholders if they have regulatory policy: concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of determining the basis of allocation of capital: Chairman, CEO or CFO.
He meets with the other Non-Executive approving the appointment and removal of any Board member Directors without Executive Directors present and leads the annual and the Company Secretary: evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
In addition, Ian is undertaking an annual review of Board, Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Ians biography can be found individual Directors performance: and on page 37. reviewing and approving the terms of reference for Board Non-Executive Directors Committees and receiving reports on their activities.
The Company has five Non-Executive Directors on its Board, Authority is delegated by the Board in certain circumstances including all of whom are considered to be independent in character and the approval of delegated authorities for the Chief Executive Officer judgement and are free from any business or other relationship CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and other senior management which could materially influence their judgement.
Other than their toapprove expenditure, investments and other matters as the Board fees, which are disclosed on page 60, the Non-Executive Directors may determine, and in granting powers of attorney.
received no additional remuneration from the Group during the Division of responsibilities year.
The Non-Executive Directors are a strong source of advice In accordance with main principle A.
2 of the Code, there is a clear and independent challenge.
division of responsibilities at the head of the Group between the Josh Hannah, who retired from the Board on 17 January 2014, Board and executive responsibility for the running of the Groups was not deemed to be independent under the provisions of business.
No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
theCode as he had served as a director for over ten years.
The roles of the Chairman, CEO and Non-Executive Directors MikeMcTighe and Fru Hazlitt were considered independent at have been defined in writing.
thedate of their retirement from the Board on 31 March 2014.
Role of the Chairman All of the Directors biographies can be found on page 37 and all In accordance with main principle A.
3 of the Code, Gerald Corbett will stand for re-election or election in accordance with the Code.
as Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board, including ensuring that the Board is run smoothly and 38 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Company Secretary Directors Fiona Russell is the Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
As at 30 April 2014, the Board comprised the Chairman, The Company Secretarys responsibilities include, in accordance twoExecutive Directors and five independent Non-Executive with main principle B.
5 of the Code, ensuring good information Directors.
The biographical details of all Board Directors as at flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior 11June 2014 are set out on page 37 and these include their management and the Non-Executive Directors.
The appointment mainexternal commitments outside of the Group.
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for During the year various changes were made to the composition the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible through the ofthe Board which are explained in further detail below.
Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate governance The following individuals were Directors of the Company as at matters and for assisting the Directors with their professional 30April 2014: development.
This includes regular corporate governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational site visitsand the provision of external courses where required.
Director Role Date appointed Gerald Corbett Non-Executive Chairman 3 January 2012 Breon Corcoran Chief Executive Officer 1 August 2012 Alex Gersh Chief Financial Officer 3 December 2012 Ian Dyson Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 1 February 2010 from 1 April 2014 Peter Jackson Independent Non-Executive Director 24 April 2013 Zillah Byng-Maddick Independent Non-Executive Director 5 September 2013 Leo Quinn Independent Non-Executive Director 5 March 2014 Peter Rigby Independent Non-Executive Director 1 April 2014 The following were also Directors of the Company for part of the year: Date retired Mike McTighe Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 31 March 2014 until 31 March 2014 Fru Hazlitt Independent Non-Executive Director 31 March 2014 Josh Hannah Non-Executive Director 22 January 2014 The composition of the Board In accordance with main principle B.
1 of the Code, the Board and its Committees have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board considers the quality, performance and likely successors for its Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and senior management population on a regular basis.
As described in the Nomination Committee report, three new Non-Executive Directors wereappointed during the year, and chairmanship and membership of Board Committees has been refreshed.
BALANCE LENGTH OF TENURE n Independent Non-Executive Directors n Male n 1 year n Independent Non-Executive Directors n Male n 1 year n Chairman n Female n 13 years n Chairman n Female n 13 years n Executive Directors n 36 years n Executive Directors n 36 years Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201439 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Appointments to the Board Once appointed, all Directors are required to submit themselves To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for for re-election on an annual basis at the Companys AGM, in theappointment of new Directors to the Board, a Nomination accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and Committee has been established, comprising independent provision B.
Zillah Byng-Maddick, Leo Quinn Non-Executive Directors and chaired by the Chairman.
andPeter Rigby will stand for election at the 2014 AGM.
Information on the work of the Nomination committee is Furtherinformation is set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Board attendance Appointments are made on merit and measured against objective During the year, there were nine scheduled Board meetings criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the excluding a two day off-site meeting which considered the board.
When prospective Non-Executive Directors are considered Groupsstrategy.
The table below shows attendance levels at the for appointment, the Nomination Committee will take into account scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year: their other responsibilities in assessing whether they can commit the numbers in brackets confirm how many Board meetings each sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
Director was eligible to attend during the year.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination scheduled Committee Committee Committee AGM Total meetings held 9 4 6 3 1 Current Directors who served during the year: Gerald Corbett 9 9 3 3 1 Breon Corcoran 9 9 1 Alex Gersh 9 9 1 Ian Dyson 9 9 4 4 6 6 1 Peter Jackson 9 9 4 4 1 1 1 Zillah Byng-Maddick 6 6 3 3 1 Leo Quinn 2 2 1 1 Peter Rigby 1 1 1 1 Former Directors who served during the year: Mike McTighe 8 8 1 1 5 5 2 3 1 Fru Hazlitt 7 8 5 5 3 3 1 Josh Hannah 4 6 1 Attends Committee meetings at the invitation of the respective Committee Chairman.
All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers Independent advice circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at Members of the Board may take independent professional advice themeetings in addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the Their understanding of the Groups business is enhanced by advice and services of the Chief Legal Officer and Company business specific presentations and operational visits to the Groups Secretary, the Groups legal advisers and external auditor.
Separate strategy meetings and meetings with senior Training and development executives are also held throughout the year.
Where a Director is In accordance with main principle B.
4 of the Code, there is a unable to attend a meeting, they are provided with all the papers comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors and and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss regular updates, tailored to individual requirements and including issues arising directly with the Chairman and CEO.
There are nine guidance on requirements of, and Directors duties in connection Board meetings and a two day off-site meeting currently scheduled with, the Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well as other for the financial year ending 30 April 2015. relevant legislation.
The Board as a whole is updated as necessary Service contracts and letters of appointment in light of any governance developments as and when they occur.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out The training needs of Directors and of members of the Boards inthe Directors Remuneration Report on page 57.
The Chairman Committees are formally considered on an annual basis.
and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment Conflicts of interest which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Company during normal business hours and at the place of Non-Executive Director appointment with the Companys prior the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and until the end approval as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts continue to operate effectively.
40 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder relations Nomination Committee The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for Gerald Corbett has chaired the Committee since March 2012. theperformance and activities of the Group.
The Group formally Itsother members are Ian Dyson and Leo Quinn.
updates the market on its financial performance at least four times Mike McTighe and Fru Hazlitt were members of the Committee a year, at the half year and full year results in December and June until they retired from the Board on 31 March 2014.
All members respectively and in the interim management statements in March of the Committee during the year were independent Nonand September.
The content of these updates is posted and Executive Directors.
webcast on the Groups website, together with general information The Nomination Committee met three times during the year.
about the Group so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Group has a regular programme of meetings with its major Further details about the work of the Nomination Committee institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, canbe found on page 42. on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the Remuneration Committee business.
The Head of Investor Relations regularly reports to the Leo Quinn was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Board the views of major shareholders in respect of the Group, and Committee with effect from 1 April 2014.
Its other members are the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors Ian Dyson, Peter Jackson and Peter Rigby.
are available to meet shareholders on request and are offered the Mike McTighe chaired the Committee until he retired from opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
theBoard on 31 March 2014 and Fru Hazlitt was a member All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the oftheCommittee until she retired on the same date.
All AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes  during the year were independent withheld, are indicated.
At the meeting itself, voting on all the Non-Executive Directors.
proposed resolutions is conducted on a poll rather than a show The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year.
ofhands, in line with recommended best practice.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend Further details about the Remuneration Committee and its to answer questions.
activities are included in the Directors Remuneration Report Board effectiveness evaluation onpages 50 to 67.
The Code requires an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board Corporate Responsibility Committee every three years.
The external evaluation was due this year, but Gerald Corbett was appointed as Chairman of the Corporate the Board decided to delay this until 2014 2015 following the Responsibility Committee on 31 March 2014.
The other various changes in Board composition.
Committee members include the Group Operations Director, theHR Director, the Company Secretary and the Group Instead, a formal internal evaluation of the Board, Committees and FinancialController.
individual Directors has taken place during the year.
The process included the completion of a detailed questionnaire by each of the Fru Hazlitt chaired the Committee until she retired from the Board Directors, covering the Boards role in strategic leadership, Boardon 31 March 2014. key Board relationships, Board composition and succession planning, The Committee met four times during the year and was quality of debate and decision making, Board support and established to define, support and monitor the execution information flows, Board Committees, risk management, relations ofBetfairs corporate responsibility strategy.
with shareholders and other stakeholders, and the Boards priority tasks.
In addition, an assessment of the Chairmans performance Further details of the work of this Committee can be found was carried out, led by the Senior Independent Director.
The onpages 28 to 35. results were reviewed by the Chairman and the principal findings There are also two further relevant committees: were fed back to the Board in May 2014.
The recommendations Market Disclosure Committee arising will be discussed and addressed by the Board during This Committee considers and decides upon matters brought 2014 2015. toitsattention which would be likely to give rise to an obligation Committees tomake a market announcement under the FCA Listing Rules.
There are four main Committees of the Board.
Each Board Itcomprises the CFO Committee Chairman and the Committee has written terms of reference approved by CompanySecretary.
the Board, which are available on the Groups website: Executive Committee corporate.
aspx This Committee is chaired by the CEO and includes the Executive Audit Committee Directors and certain other senior executives.
The Committee Ian Dyson has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since meets formally every month.
It develops the Groups strategy and 17February 2010.
Ian has been identified as having significant annual revenue and capital budgets for Board review and approval: recent and relevant financial experience and his biography can be reviews and recommends to the Board any significant investment found on page 37.
Zillah Byng-Maddick also has significant recent proposals: monitors the financial and operational performance of and relevant financial experience and the other member of the the Group: allocates resources within the budgets agreed by the Audit Committee, Peter Jackson, has extensive commercial Board: considers employment issues: ensures the Group has an experience.
The Chairman of the Board, the CEO and the appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management CFOattend such meetings at the invitation of the Committees succession plans.
Inaddition it also ensures that the Groups Chairman.
During the year, the Committee met four times.
Further details about the Audit Committee and its activities are included in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 43 to 45.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201441 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
