GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INTEGRITY OF OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING AND THE QUALITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL IS FUNDAMENTAL TO SUPPORTING OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES, SUSTAINABLE LONG-TERM GROWTH AND ENHANCING SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
Ian Dyson, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Overview may have on the external auditors independence: The Audit Committee is the body which carries out the functions review any correspondence from regulators in relation to our required by Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 7.1.
3 financial reporting, oversee the process for dealing with such AuditCommittees and their functions and is comprised of three correspondence received by the Group regarding accounting, independent Non-Executive Directors who have been appointed internal controls or auditing matters and the confidential, by the Board.
Full details of the members qualifications and anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding experience are available on page 37. questionable accounting or auditing matters: perform in-depth reviews of specific areas of financial reporting, The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: risks and internal controls, as determined by the Audit Committee: review and consider, making appropriate recommendations meet with Executives, management and staff as required, as on the Companys interim and annual financial statements, well as privately with both the external auditor and the Director appropriateness of accounting policies and integrity of the of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management: and financial statements and announcements, reviewing significant report to shareholders annually on its role and responsibilities.
judgements therein, prior to consideration by the Board: Audit Committee process review and consider, making appropriate recommendations on The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined in its the Companys public statements on significant risks, internal terms of reference, through at least four meetings during the year control and corporate governance compliance prior to their at which detailed reports are presented for review.
In general the consideration by the Board: Committee meets in advance of Board meetings.
Other than review and consider, making appropriate recommendations on Committee members, attendance is by invitation and generally the Companys Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it is includes other Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with applicable Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, legislation and listing requirements prior to consideration by the Director of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management and the Board: KPMG, the external auditor.
Other key members of management review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct are invited according to the agenda.
The Chief Legal Officer and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The terms of reference to any such occurrence: of the Committee can be found on the Companys website: review managements evaluation of any significant change in corporate.
internal controls over financial reporting: The Committee is authorised to obtain independent advice establish, review and monitor the role and effectiveness of the if considered necessary.
Group Internal Audit & Risk Management function: in accordance with applicable legislation and good governance, The Committee commissions reports from external advisers, assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, Group Internal Audit & Risk Management or Company resignation, dismissal and overseeing of the external auditor, management, either after consideration of the Companys including review of the nature and scope of work to be majorrisks or in response to developing issues.
The Committee performed by the external auditor, its cost, effectiveness and meets privately with KPMG Audit Plc KPMG and the Director the independence of the external auditor: ofGroup Internal Audit & Risk Management.
KPMG also meet review managements response to the external auditor findings theDirector of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management in and report to the Audit Committee: privatethroughout the year.
in accordance with the policy, pre-approve non-audit work to The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on be carried out by the external auditor and the fees to be paid how the Committee has discharged its duties after each meeting.
for that work together with the monitoring of the effect that Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201443 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Data integrity and IT security During the year, the main activities that the Committee considered These are key to the effective operation of the business and were as follows: integral to recognising revenue appropriately.
Technology and review of the integrity of the financial statements and Security management and personnel report regularly on the risks recommendation of interim and full year financial results to and controls around security and IT operations to the Corporate the Board: Risk Committee and Audit Committee throughout the year.
the scope and cost of the external audit: Theexternal auditor IT specialists reviewed the effectiveness of non-audit work carried out by the external auditor and trends in controls during the audit.
The Audit Committee has challenged the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy to both management and the external auditor and based on the ensure the safeguarding of auditor independence: above is satisfied with the current level of risk and internal control.
periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group Management and safeguarding of client funds Internal Audit & Risk Management: The Group holds a significant balance of client funds off balance the effectiveness of the external auditor and consideration sheet, mainly inring-fenced accounts under a Trust Deed.
of its reappointment: 269.0m was held at 30 April 2014 284.1m at30April 2013, compliance with the Code of Conduct and whistleblowing as disclosed in note 16 to the financial statements.
The procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures: appropriate recognition of revenue is dependent on client funds the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management, and core finance processes and controls accurately reporting on the scope of the annual internal audit plan, internal audit reports and reconciling the transactions from the IT systems.
Daily and of significance, its resourcing and external support: monthly reconciliations of these funds are performed to reduce management representations provided to the external auditor the risk of misstatement and to detect fraud.
The external and the Companys procedures to ensure all relevant audit auditor and Group Internal Audit & Risk Management have information has been disclosed: reviewed controls around the client funds and reported to the the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions: Audit Committee during the year without any significant issues the Groups framework for the identification, assessment, being raised.
The Audit Committee has challenged both monitoring and management mitigation plans for major risks, management and the external auditor and based on the above and the annual assessment of the effectiveness of access is satisfied with the current levelof internal control.
to significant systems, authorisation controls and other internal controls: Online gambling regulation, licensing and tax corporate governance developments: The strategy is designed to achieve sustainable revenues from review of the suitability of the Groups accounting policies regulated jurisdictions, however there is judgement around the and practices and significant matters of judgement: interpretation of international tax laws and how they interact the status of material litigation involving the Group: within each jurisdiction and this may have a significant impact the Committees own terms of reference and membership: and onthe financial statements.
Presentations by senior members in-depth reviews of strategy, security, IT disaster recovery, ofthe Compliance, Anti-Money Laundering and Tax teams technology risks, customers account security, tax, insurance, havebeen made to the Audit Committee demonstrating how treasury, anti-money laundering, compliance, related party we manage these areas.
The Chief Executive Officer reports transactions and financial authorisation controls.
monthly to the Board on significant matters e. g: New Jersey and Italian licences plus UK Point of Consumption tax.
Financial statements TheAudit Committee is satisfied with the level of risk and The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial internal control.
reporting is to review and monitor the integrity of financial statements and other trading statements.
The Groups financial statements are reviewed by the Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
The Committee assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted and whether management had made appropriate Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not estimates and judgements.
The Committee reviewed accounting aware of any material misstatements made intentionally to achieve papers prepared by management in respect of the main financial a particular presentation.
The auditor reported to the Committee reporting judgements, the clarity of disclosures and compliance the misstatements that it had found in the course of its work and with financial reporting standards and governance.
After discussion no material amounts remained unadjusted.
The Committee with both management and the external auditor, the Audit confirms that it is satisfied that the auditor has fulfilled its Committee determined that the key risks of misstatement of the responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
Groups financial statements related to revenue recognition which After reviewing the presentations and reporting from management is dependent on dataintegrity and IT security to ensure correct and consulting where necessary with the auditor, the Audit calculation of commission revenues and appropriate wins and Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately losses, the management and safeguarding of client funds and address the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect online gambling regulation, licensing and tax.
to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee also reviewed reports by the external auditor On the basis of the above the Committee consider that the on the full year and half year results.
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced The primary issues of risk and accounting judgement considered and understandable and provides the information necessary for by the Committee during the year were as follows: shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
44 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 External auditors independence, performance Private meetings were held with KPMG to ensure there were no and reappointment restrictions on the scope of their audit and to provide an opportunity The Committee has primary responsibility for making to discuss any items that the auditor did not wish to raise with the recommendations on the appointment, reappointment Executive Directors present.
The Committee reviews and agrees andremoval of the external auditor.
the engagement letter from KPMG and verifies its independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed the scope of non-audit services The Committee took the following into account in assessing provided by KPMG to ensure that its objectivity was not impaired.
Non-audit services The Committee reviewed and challenged KPMGs proposed The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditplan prior to the commencement of the audit, including the auditor for non-audit work which is in compliance with the Code.
approach, methodology, materiality, assessment of risk and key The external auditor may carry out certain specified non-audit areas of judgement and fees.
KPMG presented their report to work, in areas that have been pre-approved by the Committee.
the Committee at the conclusion of the year end audit.
KPMGs Any other work for which management wishes to utilise the independent report to shareholders is on pages 73 and 74. external auditor must be approved.
The pre-approved services The Committee reviews the performance of the external auditor include the following: each year during the planning process and after the conclusion audit related services, including work related to the annual ofthe interim and annual audit reviews.
A qualitative assessment Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local has been undertaken of the services provided, both audit and statutory accounts: and non-audit, against the agreed audit plan scope of service taking for certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax into account feedback from management.
This included consideration planning and tax advice.
of the timeliness, content and quality of presentations to the Committee, competence with respect to issues of risk and The external auditor is precluded from engaging in non-audit accounting judgement and their qualifications and experience.
services that would compromise its independence, would violate The Committee is satisfied that the external audit process has any laws or regulations affecting its appointment as auditor or operated effectively and is fully satisfied with KPMGs performance.
would lead a reasonable third party to regard the objectives of the proposed non-audit service as being inconsistent with the external KPMG Audit Plc has been Betfairs auditor since 2003. audit.
The policy defines the types of permitted and not permitted The external auditor is required to rotate the lead partner services.
Except in exceptional circumstances relating to urgent every five years and other partners that are responsible for the transactions or services deemed not to be of a material nature, the group and subsidiary audits must change at least every seven engagement of the auditor for non-audit work must be approved years.
Such changes are carefully planned to ensure business in advance by the Committee Chairman where the fee is in excess continuity without undue risk or inefficiency.
Fees up to 50,000 must be approved by the responsible for Betfairs audit is completing his second year Chief Financial Officer.
within the group audit team and his second year as lead partner which is a role he can continue for a further three years.
The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees payable in respectof audit services is appropriate for a group of its size The transitional rules under the EU legislation will require an andthat an effective audit was conducted during the year.
initialchange of audit firm no later than for the 30 April 2023 Thefees for audit and non-audit services are disclosed in note 3 yearend audit.
The Competition Commission had previously proposed mandatory The Committee through ongoing oversight of the external audit tenders at least every ten years with different transitional auditor as noted in the above factors recommends that KPMGs rules, but has now announced a delay in its implementation re-election as external auditor be proposed at the Annual programme.
There is therefore uncertainty as to whether Betfair General Meeting.
will be required to go to tender prior to 2023.
Ian Dyson Until this uncertainty is resolved, the Committee will continue to Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or Audit Committee independence reasons.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditor.
The Committee is satisfied that there are no relationships between the Company and the auditor, its employees or its affiliates that may reasonably be thought to impair the auditors objectivity and independence.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201445 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
