118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 23 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board is committed to maintaining and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code as set out in the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The Board considers that reporting in accordance with the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code provides more reliable and comprehensive information to shareholders.
Both the AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on the AIC website at www.
Compliance Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 the Company complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code except, as explained below, where the Company does not believe it appropriate to comply.
The Board, being small in size and composed entirely of independent non-executive Directors, has not appointed a Remuneration or a Nomination Committee.
Directors fees and the appointment of new Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board has also decided not to nominate a Deputy Chairman or a Senior Independent Director, although David Jeffcoat, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, fulfils this role when necessary, for example in taking the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive Directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the company as it is an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are considered at its meetings.
The Board comprises of five non-executive Directors, of whom Mr Trickett is Chairman.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board has been adopted.
The Board has engaged external firms to provide investment management, secretarial, depositary and custodial services.
Contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these firms.
The Board carefully considers the various guidelines for determining the independence of non-executive Directors, placing particular weight on the view that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
An individual can therefore be considered to be independent even though their length of service exceeds nine years.
No limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, including the Chairman, has therefore been imposed.
All Directors are presently considered to be independent.
All Directors retire at the AGM each year and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
Each Director has signed a letter of appointment to formalise the terms of their engagement as a non-executive Director, copies of which will be available on request and at the AGM.
Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specifically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and additionally at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor compliance with the investment objective and the Companys investment performance compared with its benchmark index.
The Directors also review several key areas including: the stockmarket environment: the Companys investment activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy: performance in relation to comparable investment and unit trusts the revenue, balance sheet and gearing position: share price discount both absolute levels and volatility : shareholder register including significant changes : regulatory matters: and relevant industry issues.
The Board also holds an annual strategy session to consider, amongst other matters, the Companys objective and investment strategy.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 23 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 24 Corporate Governance Report The following highlights various additional matters considered by the Board during the past year: January April July October Consider Final Approval of the Shareholder Consider 1st Internal Control Corporate Approval of Half Dividend Annual Report Communication InterimDividend Review Governance Yearly Report Review Review of Review of Review of Retail Annual Strategy Review Managers Board & Investment Trust Management Fee Gearing Distribution Review continued Committee Peer Group allocation Review appointment Evaluation The following table sets out the Directors of the Company during the financial year, together with the number of Board and Committee meetings held and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
All Directors also attended the AGM in February 2014.
Audit The Board Committee Director Eligible to attend Attended Eligible to attend Attended 1 1 SPTrickett, Chairman 4 4 3 3 PMHay-Plumb appointed on 29 January 2014 3 3 DJ Jeffcoat 4 4 4 4 J Le Blan appointed on 29 January 2014 3 3 2 2 Prof PRMarsh retired on 17 October 2014 4 4 Prof W S Nimmo retired on 27 February 2014 1 1 R A Rae 4 4 4 4 1 prior to being appointed as Chairman of the Company on 17 October 2014.
Appointments to the Board No further directors have been appointed since the appointment of Mrs Le Blan and Mrs Hay-Plumb on 29 January 2014.
Board performance and re-appointment of Directors The Board undertakes a formal annual self-assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role, processes and interaction with the Managers.
The Directors conduct this review of the Board and the Audit Committee by way of an evaluation questionnaire, the results of which are summarised and discussed.
The appraisal of the Chairman is led by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board does not currently consider that the use of external consultants as facilitators is likely to provide any meaningful benefit to the evaluation process, though the option to do so is kept under review.
In line with the Boards policy, all Directors being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board believes that each Director continues to be effective, bringing a wealth of knowledge and experience to the Board and recommends their re-election to Shareholders.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
The Company has also entered into a deed of indemnity with each Director to cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company or costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or required to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
Training and Advice New Directors are provided with an induction programme that is tailored to the particular requirements of the appointee.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training when required and changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may also seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No Director took such advice during the financial year under review.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys Secretaries, Aberforth Partners LLP, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
24 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 25 Corporate Governance Report Conflicts of Interest A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which they and connected persons have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board has in place procedures for authorising any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
No conflicts of interest arose during the year under review.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys risk management and system of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Company applies the revised guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council: Internal Control : Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, that proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information on the Company is reliable.
The Directors have an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company which are recorded in a risk matrix.
This was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
This process principally comprises the Audit Committee receiving and examining regular reports from key service providers.
The Board then receives a detailed report from the AuditCommittee on its findings.
As a consequence the Directors have not identified any significant failures or weaknesses in respect of the Companys system of internal control.
Communications with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Managers meet the larger shareholders twice a year and provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company.
In addition, Paul Trickett, Chairman, attended five of these meetings in November 2014.
The Board receives reports from the Managers of these shareholder meetings.
Directors of the Company are always available to meet with any shareholder on request.
Furthermore, following publication of the Annual Report, the Chairman emails the largest shareholders inviting questions on all aspects concerning the Company.
The Directors may be contacted through the Secretaries whose details are shown on the inside back cover or through the Chairmans email address, paul.
In addition to the annual and half yearly reports, the Companys performance, daily Net Asset Values, monthly factsheets and other relevant information is published at www.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM during which the Directors and Managers are available to discuss key issues affecting the Company.
Proxy voting figures are announced at the AGM and are available via the Managers website shortly thereafter.
Social, Environmental and Ethical Issues Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is carried out by its Managers, Aberforth Partners LLP.
The Managers have a consistent and well-defined investment process based on fundamental analysis of the constituents of the investment universe.
The Managers Stewardship Policy is available from their website.
The Managers primary objective is to deliver investment returns greater than the return on the Companys benchmark index, the NSCI XIC, over the long term.
The Directors, through the Managers, also encourage investee companies to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
The Board and the Managers support the Statement of Principles of the Institutional Shareholders Committee, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Effective management of risks and opportunities posed by Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE issues is an important component of good corporate governance.
The Managers believe that sound SEE policies make good business sense and take these issues into account when investment decisions are taken.
However, the Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on grounds of SEE concerns.
Instead, the Managers adopt a positive approach whereby such matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
Voting Policy The Board has given discretionary voting powers to its Managers to exercise the voting rights on every resolution that is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company is invested.
The Managers vote against resolutions that they believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with directors of the company concerned.
The Board receives quarterly reports from the Managers on governance issues including voting pertaining to investee companies.
The Board also reviews and endorses, from time to time, the Managers voting guidelines and its stance towards SRI and SEE matters.
By Order of the Board Paul Trickett Chairman 29 January 2015 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 25
