118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 26 Audit Committee Report The Committee members are all independent non-executive directors who have been selected by the Board to fulfil the Committees duties based upon their range of financial and commercial expertise.
They are David Jeffcoat Chairman, Richard Rae and Julia Le Blan, who joined the Committee in July 2014.
In addition Paul Trickett was a member until 17 October 2014 when he was appointed Chairman of the Company.
The members biographies can be found on page 18.
Key Objective: The objective of the Committee is to provide assurance to the Board as to the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and the integrity of its financial records and externally published results.
In doing so the Committee operates within terms of reference that have been agreed by the Board.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available upon request.
They will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
Principal Responsibilities: Under its terms of reference the Committee has been given the following key responsibilities: ensuring that all of the Companys key risks are identified and monitoring the mitigating controls that have been established by its main third party service providers: monitoring compliance with the relevant statutory, regulatory and taxation requirements for a UK based investment trust: reviewing the Companys financial statements, the accounting policies adopted and the key judgemental areas: ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: agreeing the external Auditors terms of appointment, determining the independence and objectivity of the Auditor and assessing the effectiveness of the audit : and considering whether it is appropriate for certain non-audit services to be carried out by the Auditor.
The Chairman reports formally to the Board on the Committees proceedings after each meeting.
To assist with the various duties of the Committee, the following Annual Plan has been approved: Audit Committee Annual Plan January April July October Annual Report Meetings to be Half Yearly Report KeyRisks Corporate KeyRisks including called if required including Governance judgemental areas, judgemental areas, Compliance going concern letter expense analysis and Provision of nonInvestment Trust of representation, Half Yearly Report Investment Trust audit services, Self evaluation of Status expense analysis announcement Status including taxation the Committee and Annual Report compliance services announcement Basis of Audit Plan Internal Controls Committees Management Fee Review including Terms of Reference Audit meeting Custodians allocation every reports from the evaluation of the ControlsReport three years Auditor Plan, Managers and other audit including update together with the third parties auditor Terms of independence Audit Fees Engagement Investment Trust Status Depositary Report Meetings Three meetings are typically held each year and this was the case in 2014.
Additional meetings take place if necessary.
Representatives of Aberforth Partners LLP, who provide the Company with Secretarial services, attended all of the meetings.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the external auditor, attended the meetings in January and October.
26 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 27 Audit Committee Report During the year the Committee focused on the areas described below.
Financial Reporting In January 2015 the Committee received a report and supporting presentation from the external Auditor on its audit of the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2014.
In addition, the Secretaries reported on the preparation of the financial results and other relevant matters.
The Committee considered these reports in detail and took further comfort from the internal control review discussed below.
Consequently, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied as to: the ownership and valuation of the investment portfolio as at 31 December 2014: the basis on which the management fee and interest costs had been allocated between the capital and income elements of the income statement: revenue recognition including dividend completeness and the accounting treatment of each special dividend recognised during the period.
The Committee read and discussed the Annual Report and concluded that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
As a result the Committee agreed that it could recommend to the Board that the financial statements be approved for publication.
The interim financial results, published on 25 July 2014, were not audited.
Therefore the Committees business in July was focussed on a discussion, with supporting documentation from the Secretaries, on the preparation and content of the Interim Report, together with other aspects such as going concern.
Going Concern The Committee received reports on going concern from the Secretaries in January and July, reflecting the guidance published by the FRC.
The content of the investment portfolio, trading activity, portfolio diversification and the existing debt facility were also discussed.
After due consideration, the Committee concluded it was appropriate to prepare the Companys accounts on a going concern basis and made this recommendation to the Board.
The relatively high level of liquidity of the portfolio was a key factor that led to this conclusion.
Internal Control and Risks The Committee carefully considered a Summary Matrix of the Companys principal risks and the mitigating controls at each meeting.
In October the risks and controls were addressed in more detail.
The Committee enhanced the design and content of the Matrix during the year and believes that it continues to reflect accurately the Companys key risks as seen by the Board.
The principal risks, which are detailed on page 5 of this Report, have not changed during the year.
Also in October the Committee received the Managers report on internal controls, including the assurance report issued by  LLP on the nature and effectiveness of the control framework that has been established by the Managers.
In addition, the Committee received internal control reports from the key service providers.
The Committee reviewed these reports and concluded that there were no significant control weaknesses or other issues that needed to be brought to the Boards attention.
The Committee also discussed whether there was a need for a dedicated internal audit function.
The Committee concluded that, as the Company has no employees and sub-contracts all of its operations to key third party suppliers, an internal audit function is not necessary.
Investment Trust Status It is essential for the Companys continuing existence that it maintains its investment trust status.
The Committee confirms this point at each meeting with reference to a checklist prepared by the Secretaries.
Appointment of the External Auditor Deloitte was appointed as the Companys auditor in April 2013 following a formal tender process.
Based upon existing legislation and that which is currently anticipated, another tender process would not be required until 2023.
Audit Planning and Audit Fees The external audit partner from Deloitte presented the detailed audit plan to the Committee in October in advance of the 2014 audit.
The plan set out the scope of the audit, the principal risks as detailed in the Independent Auditor's Report, Deloittes position on audit independence, the proposed timetable and fees.
These amounted to 18,750, excluding VAT, for the year 2013: 18,250.
There were no non-audit activities carried out by Deloitte.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 27 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 28 Audit Committee Report Evaluation of the Auditor Following the completion of the audit, the Committee reviewed the Auditors effectiveness by: discussing the audit and the process with the audit partner and senior manager: considering the experience and continuity of the audit team, including the audit partner: considering feedback on the audit provided by the Secretaries.
The Committee acknowledged that the audit team comprised staff with appropriate levels of knowledge and experience and that the audit partner, who had significant prior experience of the investment trust sector, had served for two years.
The Committee noted positive feedback from the Secretaries on Deloitte's performance on the audit.
Additionally Deloitte had provided confirmation that it had complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements on independence.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee is satisfied that the external audit was carried out effectively.
It has therefore recommended to the Board the re-appointment of Deloitte as the Company's auditor for the 2015 financial year.
The Board has given its support and a proposal will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Committee Evaluation The Board conducts a formal annual review of the Committees effectiveness, using an evaluation questionnaire.
The outcome was positive with no significant concerns expressed.
David Jeffcoat Audit Committee Chairman 29 January 2015 28 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
