INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Statement from Colin Holmes The key areas of focus have been to provide support tothe Board in its oversight of financial reporting andthe control environment across the Group.
Colin Holmes Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to: Im pleased to provide an update on the main activities of Admirals Audit Committee during2014.
@ Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal The key areas of focus for the Committee during the year have been toprovide announcement relating to the Groups support to the Board in its oversight of financial reporting andthecontrol financial performance, reviewing any environment across the Group.
The setting of insurance claims reserves continues significant financial reporting to be a key accounting judgement in the Groups financial statements, and the judgements that they contain.
Committee placed considerable focus on reviewing therecommendations of management and discussing the key reserving judgements with the Groups @ Keep under review the effectiveness independent actuaries and external auditor.
Inaddition, the Committee continued of the Groups internal financial to monitor the appropriateness ofthe Groups system of risk management and controls, internal control and risk internal controls as well asthe robustness of the Internal and External Audit processes.
The Committee studied a number of key control issues, highlighted through @ Review the Groups procedures arange of different sources including the risk register, Internal Audit and the for handling allegations from Committees previous work.
In each case the Committee found the responses whistleblowers and for detecting fraud.
and action plans from management appropriate to the issues raised.
With the @ Monitor and assess the role planned implementation in 2015 of a new IT system in the UK business the and effectiveness of the Groups Committee received regular updates from the projects manager, ensuring that Internal Audit functions in the the impact of implementation issues were being fully considered and mitigated context of the Groups overall against.
The Committee also reviewed with the Head of IT the plans of the internal control and risk business to ensure that IT security issues are being appropriately managed.
The growing materiality of the Groups international businesses has been a key @ Consider and make recommendations focus of the Committee, with presentations from the key CEOs and an improved to the Board, to be put to shareholders oversight of the businesses audit activities.
Also during the year the Group for their approval at the AGM, issued its first public bond, with the Committee reviewing the accuracy and in relation to the appointment, completeness of the financial information being provided as part of the prospectus.
reappointment and removal of Finally as previously communicated the Group plans to tender the External the Groups external auditor.
Audit of the Group to coincide with the rotation of the current KPMG audit @ Review the external auditors partner.
In preparation for the tender process the Committee has spent time independence and objectivity considering how it will manage this process to ensure the Group continues and the effectiveness of the tohave a strong External Audit team into the future.
The Committee continues to provide strong oversight of the Group and I would @ Review the policy on the engagement like to thank all those who have made this possible.
In particular I would like to of the external auditor to provide thank my two colleagues, Margaret Johnson and Annette Court, for their invaluable non-audit services, considering contribution over the last year, and equally to welcome Penny James to the the relevant regulatory guidance Committee following her appointment to the Board in January.
regarding the provision of non-audit I hope you find the above summary, and the more detailed report, both useful services by the external auditor.
Colin Holmes Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 March 2015 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 49 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Summary of key activities during 2014 During the year the Committee reviewed the following: @ The Annual Report and interim results.
@ Reports from the Internal Audit departments within the Group on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures, details of key audit findings and actions taken by management to manage and reduce the impact of the risks identified.
@ Reports from the external auditor on the principal findings from its review of the Groups systems and controls, and on the key accounting and audit issues and conclusions on the half and full year reporting.
@ Reports from the Chair of the Group Risk Committee on the principal risks faced by the Group and the work undertaken by the Committee to ensure risk is appropriately managed.
@ Presentations from independent actuaries to assist the Committee in concluding on the adequacy of the Groups reserves.
@ Reports from the external auditor on the proposed audit scope, fees, audit findings, and auditor independence.
@ The proposed Internal Audit plans for both the UK and international businesses.
@ Performance and effectiveness of the Internal Audit departments including review of the results of the external effectiveness review of Internal Audit.
@ Significant findings from Internal Audit including management responses to the conclusions set out in the reports.
@ Reports from the CEO and Internal Auditors of the significant international businesses.
@ The effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy, which sets out the arrangements for raising and handling allegations from whistleblowers.
@ The effectiveness of the procedures for detecting fraud.
@ The Committee also received presentations and discussions on a range of important issues including: IT Security: the Groups Excess of Loss arrangements: Periodic Payment Order PPO identification: reserving and the impact on the Group of the introduction of the Gender Directive in the context of considering whether any portfolio shifts could lead to material changes in claims development patterns and impact the appropriateness of claims estimation at the year end.
@ The plans and governance of the project to implement a new IT system for the UK business in 2015.
@ The accuracy and completeness of the financial information contained within the prospectus for the Groups public bond issue.
@ The pre-planning work to facilitate a smooth and effective tender of the External Audit work.
@ Its own Terms of Reference.
50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N Membership Significant issues considered The Committee also received an update from bytheCommittee the auditor regarding the procedures used to Audit Committee attendance 6 meetings After discussion with both management and test managements methodology in setting Colin Holmes the external auditor, the Audit Committee best estimates and considered the auditors Margaret Johnson determined that the key risks of misstatement assertion that they had challenged the reserving of the Groups financial statements related to: approach taken by management and considered Annette Court insurance liabilities: profit commissions: and compliance with current accounting standards.
both co-insurance and reinsurance contracts.
Based on this and the reserving process, the Chairman Member Did not attend Committee was satisfied with the Groups These issues were discussed with management Membership of the Committee at the end of approach to setting reserves.
during the year and with the auditor at the the year was: Colin Holmes Chair, Margaret time the Committee reviewed and agreed the Johnson and Annette Court, with Penny James Profit commission auditors Group audit plan, when the auditor joining the Committee with effect from her The Committee considered the impact on profit reviewed the interim financial statements in appointment as a Non-Executive Director on commission income of future changes in claims August 2014 and also at the conclusion of the 1 January 2015.
Composition of the Committee reserves as the recognition of this income is audit of these full year financial statements.
is well balanced, with Committee members dependent on the loss ratio booked in the having a broad range of financial and business financial statements and cash receivable is Insurance liabilities experience such that they are able to effectively dependent on actuarial projections of ultimate The Audit Committee considered the provision analyse, challenge and debate the issues that loss ratios.
The Committee remained satisfied for claims outstanding comprising provisions fall within the Committees remit.
that profit commission was correctly accounted for the estimated cost of settling all claims for by the Group and was in accordance with the incurred but unpaid as at the balance sheet The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the contractual arrangements that were in place.
date, whether reported or not.
The Committee meets at least four has approved a Reserving Policy that sets times per year and has an agenda linked to Co-insurance and reinsurance out the methodology by which management events in the Groups financial calendar and The Group has in place a number of proportional sets reserves in the financial statements.
The other important issues that arise throughout risk sharing agreements, where insurers outside approach is to ensure that an appropriate margin the year which fall for consideration by the the Group underwrite a majority of the risk is provided above actuarial best estimates Committee under its remit.
generated, either through co-insurance or to allow for uncertainty and volatility.
The Board considers that the members of the reinsurance contracts.
There is judgement Committee have the appropriate competence The Committee held separate meetings with involved in the assessment of whether significant and experience necessary to contribute the Groups external actuaries at which there risk has transferred which impacts on the meaningfully to the Committees deliberations was challenge and debate of the methodology appropriate accounting.
and further considers that Colin Holmes Chair, used and best estimates developed by the In particular, the Committee considered the as a Chartered Management Accountant, external actuaries and recommended for accounting treatment of the caps contained in has appropriate recent and relevant financial adoption by management.
At these meetings the Groups international quota share reinsurance experience having previously been the UK management provided further information contracts that limited the losses of the reinsurer Finance Director for Tesco plc.
Penny James on the reserving levels proposed and were when certain combined ratio and or expense is currently Director of Group Finance at challenged by the Committee as to their ratio limits had been breached.
adequacy and level of prudency.
In particular, discussed the accounting options available the Committee reviewed the process for to account for these cap accruals and had The Committee is kept up to date with identifying and grading cases which potentially challenged management as to the merit of the changes to Accounting Standards and relevant would settle as Payment Protection Orders accounting options available.
The Committee developments in financial reporting, company PPO.
The Committee was satisfied that PPOs accepted the view of management that the law and the various regulatory frameworks were being appropriately identified and most appropriate presentation was to allocate through presentations from the Groups reserved for.
the impact of expense ratio caps to insurance external auditor, Chief Financial Officer and The Committee also discussed the Reserving expenses and to split the impact of combined Company Secretary.
In addition, members Letter sent to insurance CEOs by the Prudential ratio caps between insurance expenses and attend relevant seminars and conferences Regulatory Authority PRA which set out the insurance claims.
The Terms of PRAs reserving expectations for firms: their Reference of the Audit Committee include The Committee considered key accounting approach to reviewing firms reserving processes all the matters required under the Code.
judgements as part of its review and approval and reserve levels: and forthcoming Solvency II Other individuals such as the Chief Financial of Group financial statements at interim and requirements.
The Committee discussed and Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief year end meetings.
The Committee received approved a response with management that Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board, reporting from the Group Finance team that reiterated the Groups strong reserving processes the Director of Risk, Compliance and Internal supported key accounting estimates and and methodology set out in the Groups Audit, and representatives of different parts of judgements and this formed the basis for the Reserving Policy and the clear process by the Group may be invited to attend all or part Committees discussion.
Risk transfer was which the matters raised in the PRAs letter of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The considered on a periodic basis or more could be addressed.
external auditor was invited to attend all of the frequently in the case of changes to contractual Committees meetings held in 2014, excepting Whilst acknowledging that the setting of arrangements.
In the light of the information those agenda items when its own performance reserves to cover future claims is a complex received by the Committee, the Committee was to be reviewed and provision of non-audit and judgemental area and having had the considered that the appropriate risk transfer services discussed.
In addition, a number of opportunity at the separate meetings referred had taken place.
private meetings were held between members to above to consider and question the of the Committee and the auditor.
recommended best estimates, the Committee is satisfied that an appropriate process has been followed and that there has been scrutiny, challenge and debate to give confidence that the reserving levels set provide an appropriate margin above best estimates and allowed for a level of prudency.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 51 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Recognition of intra-group trading is also satisfied that the significant assumptions the view that the audit for the year ending The Committee considered and reviewed an used for determining the value of assets and 31 December 2016 will be put out to tender unadjusted difference, reported by the external liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, in 2015. auditor, relating to intra-group trading which had challenged and are sufficiently robust.
In view of the high quality of service received not been eliminated on consolidation.
by the Group from the current external auditor, Non-audit fees Management confirmed to the Committee that and the above intention to undertake a full During the year the Committee reviewed its the auditor continued to report an unadjusted tender of the audit for the 2016 financial year, policy on non-audit services that sets out the difference in relation to intra-group trading the Committee recommends the reappointment procedure for approval, by the Committee, between the Groups insurance and price of KPMG for the next financial year.
A resolution of expenditure with the Groups auditor comparison operations.
Management had for the reappointment of KPMG as auditor will, of over 30,000, including the process where opted not to make the elimination adjustments therefore, be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
it is necessary for approval of such work to as the effect would have a misleading impact There are no contractual obligations that restrict be given outside of the normal Committee on the key ratios for the business as typically the Groups choice of external auditor.
Such circumstances will used by the industry and also to maintain require the approval of the Audit Committee consistency with prior years.
KPMG confirmed Internal Audit Chair, who will consider and approve such fees that although this was an unadjusted difference, The Group Head of Internal Audit attends all on behalf of the Committee and will ensure it was both immaterial and consistent with Audit Committee meetings and provides a that auditor independence and objectivity prior years.
range of presentations and papers to the are not compromised.
Such approval of fees Committee, through which the Committee The Committee fully considered and challenged in excess of 30,000 will then be notified by monitors the effectiveness of the Groups management on the approach they had the Committee Chair to the next Committee internal controls.
The Committee reviewed taken not to make elimination adjustments meeting following approval.
and approved the Group Internal Audit Terms on the grounds of immateriality.
Following The Groups auditor, KPMG LLP, provides of Reference which set out the role: objectives: comprehensive review, the Committee some non-audit services, the majority of which reporting lines and accountability: authority: confirmed its acceptance of managements comprise compliance and advisory services independence: and objectivity of the Internal position on the basis that accounting for related to various taxation issues within the Audit function.
The role and competence of intra-group trading in this way was acceptable Group, and which are not considered by the each Internal Audit function across the Group given the immateriality of the sums involved Committee to compromise their independence was also assessed and considered by the and resulted in a better overall presentation and objectivity as auditor.
It was agreed that the Group of the financial statements.
typically based on the merit of using KPMGs Head of Internal Audit would have increased existing knowledge of the Groups business: responsibility over the Internal Audit activities IFRIC 21 levies their particular expertise in relation to the in the Groups overseas locations.
The impact of IFRIC 21 on levies was considered advice sought on each relevant transaction by management and the Groups auditor, with Members of the Committee also receive and the consequent value added and inherent the implication to Admiral being on the amounts all issued audit reports, enabling them to saving of fees.
The level of non-audit fees is it pays to the Motor Insurers Bureau and the challenge the reports content and related reviewed at each Committee meeting and Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The Committee approves details are included in the Annual Report.
standard is not mandatory until 2015 but the the Internal Audit programmes at the start of Committee agreed with management that in The Committee also considered the implications each calendar year whilst the effectiveness the interest of transparency it was appropriate of both the forthcoming tender of the External and workload of the Internal Audit functions for the Group to early adopt, with full disclosure Audit and the potential adoption by the UK and the adequacy of available resources are of its implications being provided in the Report of EU legislation that prohibits auditors from monitored throughout the year.
carrying out certain non-audit services including In accordance with agreed parameters, the tax and other consultancy.
The Committee overseas businesses of ConTe, Admiral Seguros Deferred tax assets will continue to track developments to ensure and Elephant have their own locally based The Groups two US operations Elephant the Group will be able to comply with future internal auditors, who report to their respective Auto and compare.
com, are both loss-making, legislation and guidance in this area.
All reports are evaluated by the Group reflecting the stage of development of each Head of Internal Audit to ensure the quality business.
The Committee discussed the potential Effectiveness of the External Auditprocess and effectiveness of the reported findings.
deferred tax assets DTA recommended by The Committee undertakes an annual review In addition, the UK Internal Audit department management in relation to the accumulated to assess the independence and objectivity carries out high level governance reviews of losses carried forward at the balance sheet date of the external auditor and the effectiveness all foreign operations, assessing the internal for both operations.
The Committee concluded of the audit process, taking into consideration control frameworks and system of risk that the proposed assets were consistent with relevant professional and regulatory management.
The overseas internal auditors the accounting standard.
requirements, the progress achieved against attend Committee meetings periodically.
the agreed audit plan, and the competence Misstatements with which the auditor handles the key accounting Committee effectiveness review The Committee considered all misstatements and audit judgements.
Following this review As part of the Committees detailed annual review reported by the auditor and were satisfied the Committee concluded that the auditor, of its performance and processes, each that no material amounts remain unadjusted.
KPMG LLP, remained independent and provided Committee member completed a comprehensive The Committee confirms that it is satisfied a service that was robust and fit for purpose.
questionnaire designed to provide objective that the auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities assessment of the Committees performance, with diligence and professional scepticism.
Audit tender including its effectiveness in monitoring Internal The Committee confirmed in last years Annual After reviewing the presentations and reports and External Audit.
The Committee discussed Report that it was the Groups intention to put from management and consulting where the results of the review and it was concluded the External Audit services contract out to tender necessary with the auditor, the Committee that the Committee and the audit process at the end of the five-year rotation of the is satisfied that the financial statements were effective: that the Committee had full current audit engagement partner.
Although appropriately address the critical judgements access to all the information it required: that the transitional rules under the EU legislation and key estimates both in respect to the amounts the Committee had appropriate Terms of give the Group the option to delay the tender reported and the disclosures.
The Committee Reference: and that it was adequately process until 2022, the Committee remains of discharging its responsibilities.
52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
