INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N REPORT OF THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Statement from Jean Park The Committee has focused on developing the Boards approved risk strategy and risk appetite.
Jean Park Chair of the Group Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, The Group Risk Committees responsibilities can be As you are aware, I took over the Chair of the Group Risk Committee summarised as: inApril2014.
At a similar time we appointed a new Director of Risk, JamesArmstrong, and subsequently we have spent significant time @ Agreeing the Groups risk buildingonthe risk management activities undertaken by the Group.
management framework, including the remits of Risk Management During the year the Committee has focused on developing the Boards Committees that are established approved risk strategy and risk appetite to a more granular level.
This within each of the Groups operational hasbeendeveloped as part of the Groups Enterprise Risk Management entities and overseeing the risk Framework ERMF.
A significant amount of time has been dedicated management functions.
In particular, the GRC signed off the annual Own Risk andSolvency Assessment ORSA report towards the end of the year as @ Monitoring the Groups prudential wellasapproving a number of new policies required as part of the overall risk exposure, which includes systems of governance.
ensuring that the Groups capital resources and liquidity profile are I look forward to continuing the good work of 2014 this year as we move appropriate to its needs whilst towards the implementation of Solvency II.
meeting minimum regulatory requirements, including overseeing and challenging the design and execution of the Groups stress and Jean Park scenario testing.
Chair of the Group Risk Committee 4 March 2015 @ Monitoring the Groups current and future conduct risk exposure.
@ Ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls for the prevention of financial crime, including prevention of bribery and adequacy of anti-money laundering and data protection systems and controls.
@ Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups Compliance functions.
@ Reviewing the Groups progress towards achieving Solvency II compliance.
@ Reviewing compliance with Group policies, including the established Reserving Policy and process.
@ Considering and recommending to the Board for approval the Groups risk appetite, including any changes to the appetite for each material type of risk faced by the Group.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 53 REPORT OF THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Summary of key activities in 2014 During the year the Committee: @ Reviewed the Groups updated risk strategy in the context of the Groups agreed strategic objectives.
@ Reviewed the Groups updated risk appetite including an updated suite of Key Risk Indicators KRIs with associated triggers and limits.
@ Reviewed the Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework in preparation for Solvency II implementation.
@ Considered the adequacy of risk mitigation measures and contingency plans.
@ Oversaw the development of customer outcome risks and the aggregation of these risks into tier one categories that will be used for reporting purposes in 2015.
This included the establishment of a Conduct Risk Committee that manages the Conduct Risk MI on behalf of the business.
@ Monitored the Groups progress towards implementation of Solvency II and plans for compliance with the EIOPA interim guidelines.
@ Reviewed the Groups proposed dividend level in line with the capital policy.
@ Recommended to the Board approval of the 2014 ORSA Report prior to submission to the UK and Gibraltar regulators.
@ Reviewed in-depth analysis of a number of the Groups most significant risk areas, including insurance risk in the UK Car Insurance operation.
@ Monitored KRIs within the overall risk management framework.
@ Provided quarterly written reports to the Group Board on conduct risk and complaints.
@ Reviewed its own Terms of Reference.
@ Approved the Terms of Reference for the Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO.
@ Approved the new Terms of Reference for the UK Risk Management Committee following the creation of the GALCO.
@ Approved a number of new revised key risk management policies in preparation for Solvency II.
@ Received internal presentations on a number of key risk areas including ORSA and capital modelling.
@ Reviewed the progress and risks associated with the IT project responsible for the implementation of a new policy administration system and data warehouse.
54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N Membership overseas entities through the application Membership at the end of the year was: Annette Court, Lucy Kellaway, Jean Park Chair and of the Groups systems of internal control and David Stevens.
risk management: and the overall assurance provided to the Audit Committee by Internal The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met five times Audit that the systems operate effectively.
The Board recognises that the day-to-day Group Risk Committee attendance 5 meetings responsibility for implementing these policies Jean Park must lie with the senior management whose operational decisions must take into account David Stevens risk and how this can be controlled effectively.
Martin Jackson The GRC reports on its activities to the Audit Lucy Kellaway Committee in support of the overall assurance provided by the Audit Committee that the John Sussens Groups risk management and compliance Annette Court systems operate effectively.
Chairman Member Did not attend The Group Risk function defines and prescribes the financial and operational risk assessment processes for the business: performs second line reviews, including reserving and capital Duties and responsibilities included the development of the Conduct modelling processes: maintains the risk registers: The duties and responsibilities of the Committee Risk MI Framework, with the introduction undertakes regular reviews of these risks in are set out in Terms of Reference that were of a new suite of metrics for monitoring conjunction with line management: delivers approved by the Board in January 2013 and the key risks in this area.
These updates have the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA : updated and approved in January 2015.
The improved the effectiveness of the Committee and records any actual losses or near misses responsibilities of the Committee can be by enabling greater focus on the main risks that occur as a consequence of the realisation summarised on page 53. affecting the business.
The Director of Risk has responsibility The work of the Committee is supported by for ensuring that managers are aware of their Internal control and risk management more detailed work undertaken by executive risk management obligations, providing them The Board is ultimately responsible for the Risk Management Committees in each of the with support and advice, and ensuring that Groups system of internal control and, through Groups operational entities.
The membership the risk management strategy is properly the Audit Committee, has reviewed the of the UK Risk Management Committee includes communicated.
Reports are produced showing effectiveness of these systems.
The systems the Group Chief Operating Officer, Group the most significant risks identified and the of internal control over business, operational, Chief Financial Officer and Group Director of controls in place.
Internal Audit uses the risk financial, and compliance risks are designed Risk.
Membership of the other UK and overseas registers to plan and inform their programme to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Committees includes the Managing Director of audits around the most significant risks to failure to achieve business objectives and of the operation.
At each meeting, the Risk the Group to ensure that the prescribed controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute Management Committees consider significant are in place and are operating effectively.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
movements in the operations risk profile, any The GRC receives reports setting out key risks that have arisen and any emerging risks.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing performance and risk indicators and considers Risk Management Committees also assess process for identifying, evaluating and managing possible control issues brought to its attention and monitor any regulatory issues, ensuring the Groups internal controls: that it has been by early warning mechanisms that are embedded that their resolution and the action taken are in place for the year ended 31 December 2014: within the operational units.
It, together with appropriately recorded.
In the UK, the Risk and that, up to the date of approval of the the Audit Committee, also receives regular Management Committee receives regular Annual Report and Accounts, it is regularly reports from the relevant Internal Audit functions, information on Conduct Risk, such as complaint reviewed by the Board and accords with the which include recommendations for improvement handling reports and other related internal control guidance for Directors provided of the control and operational environment.
Twice a year the Chair of the Group Risk The Committee Chair reports formally to the A key element of the control system is that the Committee provides a comprehensive written Board on its proceedings after each meeting Board meets regularly with a formal schedule report to the Board on the Groups risk appetite, on all matters within its duties and responsibilities, of matters reserved to it for decision and has put risk strategy and risk management policy as set out in previously circulated minutes to in place an organisational structure with clearly considering the principal assessed exposures the Board.
The Committee Chair also reports defined lines of responsibility.
As described and the effectiveness of the mitigation on the activities of the Committee in a formal above, in order to ensure these responsibilities strategies adopted.
written report that is submitted to and discussed are properly discharged, the Board has delegated The Audit Committee reports to the Board by the Board every six months.
the task of supervision of risk management to on the appropriateness and effectiveness the Group Risk Committee GRC and of internal Following a review of the Committee of the risk management systems and internal control to the Group Audit Committee.
effectiveness in December 2013, the Committee controls including financial controls.
Where has overseen development of an Enterprise There are several key elements to the risk appropriate, the Committee provides a Risk Management Framework.
The aim of the management environment throughout the high-level challenge to the steps being taken framework is to improve the understanding of Group.
These include the setting of risk by the GRC to implement the risk management risks at a Group level to help evaluate strategic management strategy, risk appetite and risk strategy.
The Internal Audit functions undertake opportunities and support the preparation for policy, and the oversight of the activities of the regular reviews of internal control systems Solvency II implementation in 2016.
The new Group Risk function by the GRC: dissemination and business processes, identifying control framework includes an updated Risk Strategy of that policy by the Chief Executive: delivery weaknesses and making recommendations alongside a refreshed suite of KRIs with of the policy by the UK Risk Management to management on improvements where associated triggers and limits.
This has also Committee and the Groups other UK and necessary.
Internal Audit also reviews the effectiveness of the Group Risk function.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 55
