GOVERNANCE REPORT Leadership The role of the Board Board activity during 2014 The Board is the principal decision-making At each scheduled meeting the Board receives forum for the Group providing entrepreneurial updates from the Chief Executive, Chief leadership, both directly and through its Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer The Board is accountable Committees, and delegating authority to the on the financial and operational performance Executive team.
The Board is responsible for of the Group and any specific developments to shareholders for organising and directing the affairs of the Group in the areas of the business for which they are in a manner that is most likely to promote its directly responsible and of which the Board setting and achieving success for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Items that are considered The Board is accountable to shareholders for on an annual basis are included in an annual the Groups strategic setting and achieving the Groups strategic schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure objectives: for the objectives: for the creation and delivery of that they are considered at the appropriate strong sustainable financial and operational point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
creation and delivery performance: for ensuring that in carrying Meetings are structured so as to allow for out its duties the Groups legal and regulatory consideration and debate of all matters.
ofstrong sustainable obligations are being met: and for ensuring Mindful of the need to ensure effective Director that it operates within appropriately established succession through senior managers below financial and operational risk parameters.
The Groups UK regulated Board level having exposure to and gaining entities are responsible to the Financial Conduct experience of the operation of the Board, the performance: for Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulatory heads of the Groups US, Italian and Spanish Authority PRA for ensuring compliance with direct insurance businesses respectively ensuring that in carrying the Groups UK regulatory obligations and that Kevin Chidwick, Milena Mondini and Cristina dealings with the FCA and PRA are handled Nestares are invited to attend every Board out its duties the Groups in a constructive, co-operative and transparent meeting and Board dinner, as was the Groups manner.
Similar provisions apply in respect of Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Geraint Jones, legal and regulatory the Groups international businesses with regard until his appointment as Chief Financial Officer to the relevant regulatory authorities in those in August 2014. obligations are being overseas jurisdictions in which the Group The Board met on seven occasions in 2014 with met: and for ensuring also operates.
six of these meetings being held over two days.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of The Board also held an additional telephone that it operates within matters reserved for the Boards consideration.
meeting to consider and respond to the formal This is monitored by the Company Secretary notification of the PRAs Individual Capital appropriately established and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Guidance ICG with respect to the Group.
Specific matters reserved for the Board Unfortunately, given prior commitments, Manfred risk parameters.
include the approval of: Aldag and Roger Abravanel were unable to join this telephone meeting.
@ The Groups long term objectives and corporate strategy.
In addition to the regular consideration of financial and operating performance and risk @ Operating and capital budgets, financial management and compliance, the Board results, and any significant changes to considered each of the Groups businesses in accounting practices or policies.
depth once during the year, receiving detailed @ The Groups capital structure.
presentations from the businesses management teams on their strategy, plans and performance.
The Board also considered specific presentations @ The system of internal control and on a variety of topics associated with the Groups risk management.
strategy and development @ The Groups overall risk appetite.
The Chairman seeks to visit each of the Groups overseas operations every year and @ Changes to the structure, size and Non-Executive Directors are invited to join either composition of the Board, including him or the Chief Executive on one or more of new appointments.
their overseas visits each year.
In addition, the @ Succession plans for the Board and Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman senior management.
met during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
In order to increase @ Dividend policy and proposals for their understanding of the operation of the dividend payments.
Group below Board level, the Non-Executive @ Major acquisitions, disposals and other Directors and the Chairman also attended a transactions outside delegated limits.
dinner with members of the Groups senior management team without the Executive @ The annual review of its own performance Directors being present.
and that of its Board Committees.
@ Annual review of the Groups Board policies.
@ The review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
44 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N Meetings and attendance Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Group to perform their duties.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings they receive papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings of which they are a member attended by each Director during 2014 is provided in the table below.
Scheduled Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 7 6 5 1 8 Alastair Lyons Chairman 7 1 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Officer 7 Kevin Chidwick Chief Financial Officer 5 5 Geraint Jones Chief Financial Officer 2 2 David Stevens Chief Operating Officer 7 5 Roger Abravanel 6 6 Manfred Aldag 6 Annette Court 7 6 5 5 5 Colin Holmes 7 6 1 Martin Jackson 3 3 2 2 3 3 Margaret Johnson 7 6 8 Lucy Kellaway 7 3 3 1 Jean Park 7 4 4 7 John Sussens 3 3 2 2 3 3 John Sussens and Martin Jackson stepped down Agendas and papers are circulated to the Board from the Board with effect from 9 April 2014. electronically in a timely and secure manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
Jean Park joined the Group Risk Committee The Board agenda is carefully structured by the on appointment from 17 January 2014 and Chairman in consultation with the Company attended all Group Risk Committee meetings Secretary and Chief Executive.
These papers held after this time.
are supplemented by information specifically Lucy Kellaway joined the Group Risk Committee requested by the Directors from time to time.
from April 2014 and attended all Group Risk All Board and Committee meetings during the Committee meetings after this time.
year were held in an open atmosphere conducive to robust and constructive challenge and debate.
Annette Court took over as Chair of the All Directors have, therefore, been able to bring Remuneration Committee from April 2014 independent judgement to bear on issues such and attended all Remuneration Committee as strategy, risk management, performance meetings held after this time.
Additional meetings are called Kevin Chidwick stepped down as Group when required and there is contact between Chief Financial Officer and was succeeded by meetings, where necessary, to progress the Geraint Jones with effect from 13 August 2014.
Both Kevin and Geraint attended all Board meetings as required in their roles as CFO.
The Company Secretary All the Directors have access to the advice The Nomination Committee met formally and services of the Company Secretary.
He has on one occasion in 2014 although members responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures of the Committee corresponded and met are followed and for advising the Board, through informally on a number of occasions to the Chairman, on governance matters.
The consider and meet with individuals that Company Secretary provides updates to the the Committee had identified as possible Board on regulatory and corporate governance candidates to join the Board.
issues, new legislation and Directors duties and obligations.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 45 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness Our Board evaluation process One-to-one meetings Directors Review previous Assess progress Chairman Raise new issues recommendations made Board attendees Results of review Board effectiveness The particular areas identified by the Board The Chief Executive, to whom they report, As the Board carried out an externally facilitated during the 2014 review where further progress appraises annually the performance of the evaluation of the Board last year, led by an was required included: individual Executive Directors.
The Chairman, independent external consultant, this year taking into account the views of the other @ Although good progress had been made by the Chairman led an internal Board evaluation Directors, reviews the performance of the the Chair of Risk to develop the appropriate process.
As well as considering the effectiveness Chief Executive who is also appraised by strategy to achieve the requisite balance and and performance of the Board, the objective an internal 360-degree feedback process.
focus between procedural and substantive of the evaluation was to assess progress made The performance of the Chairman is reviewed aspects of risk and to create the most against the recommendations from the last by the Board led by the Senior Independent efficient and effective reporting materials, evaluation in order to continue the development Director SID.
Following the latest review, it was felt that further work was needed of the collective contribution of the Board the SID considered and discussed with the to embed fully the Groups risk framework as a whole and also the effectiveness of each Chairman the comments and feedback that within the organisation.
When considering the had been received from the Directors as part evaluation process, the Chairman considered @ Focus on finding the right balance to ensure of the Chairmans evaluation questionnaire, feedback received from Directors after that gaps in international experience were and was able to confirm that the performance one-to-one meetings held with him during addressed through greater competitive of the Chairman continues to be effective and the year as to areas of focus to improve analysis or contributions from external that he continues to demonstrate appropriate Board effectiveness.
experts such that the collective knowledge commitment to his role.
of the Board does not become UK centric.
The evaluation process involved the Chairman The roles of the Chairman circulating to all Directors and Board attendees, @ Reinforcement of the approach to create andChiefExecutive the recommendations from the 2013 Board a clear structure in presentation materials The Board has approved a statement that sets effectiveness review and inviting respondents that show the original forecast, the agreed out the clear division of responsibilities between to assess progress made and comment on each approach and any assumptions made at the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Respondents were also the time and the bridge to the current Chairman is primarily responsible for the invited to raise any new issues of significance position showing changes to current leadership and workings of the Board, setting that they felt had developed since the last forecast and suggested approach.
its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
review a year ago and on which they believed @ Inviting external experts to present on The Chairman is not involved in the day-to-day the Board should focus in the coming year.
customers, competitors and or societal management of the business.
Save for matters The results of the review were presented by trends every onetwo years to provoke reserved for decision by the Board, the Chief the Chairman to the Board in January 2015. thinking and debate in advance of likely Executive, with the support of the other Overall the review found that good progress changes in customer preferences or Executive Directors, is responsible for proposing had been made against most recommendations, competitor practices.
It was felt that the strategy to be adopted by the Group: running that the Board continued to work effectively and although some progress had been made the business in accordance with the strategy that each Director contributes and demonstrates there was still the opportunity through agreed by the Board: and implementing full commitment to his her duties.
external presentations to lift the perspective specific Board decisions relating to the of the Board, spending more time on the operation of the Group.
The statements strategic context for the business and less of division of responsibilities and matters on its routine operating activity.
reserved for decision by the Board are reviewed annually.
46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N Board balance and independence In the context of two of the Non-Executive The Chairman performs a number of other The composition of the Board evolved during Directors reaching their maximum term over non-executive roles outside the Group and the year as John Sussens and Martin Jackson the next two years, the Nomination Committee details of these are included in the Chairmans stepped down from the Board after nine years initiated the process of recruiting a Non-Executive biography.
The Board continues to be satisfied service.
Careful consideration continues to be Director to ensure that the balance and that these other commitments are not such as given to Board structure and balance particularly composition of the Board was maintained.
to interfere with the performance of his duties given another two Directors will reach nine years Appointments to the Board are the responsibility within the Group and will not impact on his service in the next two years.
In this context the of the Board as a whole, acting on the advice ability to allocate sufficient time to discharge Group continues to monitor the need to refresh and recommendations of the Nomination effectively his responsibilities to the Group.
Board and Committee membership in an orderly Committee.
Appointments are made on merit John Sussens stepped down as the Senior manner so as to maintain the continuity of and against objective criteria, having due regard Independent Non-Executive Director SID Board process and the strength of personal to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
in April 2014 and was succeeded by Colin interaction which underlies the effectiveness Following a formal, rigorous and transparent Holmes, who has the requisite knowledge and of the Board as a team.
The Board remains process implemented and led by the Nomination experience gained through his Board tenure satisfied that it has the appropriate balance Committee, the Board was delighted to appoint and Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
of skills, experience, independence and Penny James as an independent Non-Executive He is available to shareholders if they have knowledge of the Group to enable it and Director with effect from 1 January 2015.
Penny concerns that contact through the normal its Committees to discharge their duties joined as a member of the Audit Committee channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or and responsibilities effectively, as required on appointment and will be subject to election Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve by the Code.
by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, The Board, having given thorough consideration He is also responsible for leading the Boards the Chairman who was independent on to the matter, considers seven of the discussion on the Chairmans performance appointment, three Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors to be independent and the appointment of a new Chairman, seven independent Non-Executive Directors, and is not aware of any relationships or as and when appropriate.
From April 2014, and one Non-Executive Director, Manfred Aldag, circumstances which are likely to affect, Annette Court replaced John Sussens as who is employed by a significant shareholder or could appear to affect, the judgement Chair of the Remuneration Committee and is not, therefore, considered independent.
It is the view of the Board that and Jean Park replaced Martin Jackson There is no requirement that the significant the independent Non-Executive Directors as Chair of the Group Risk Committee.
shareholder has representation on the Board are of sufficient calibre and number that their Roger Abravanel will not be seeking re-election and, accordingly, Mr Aldags appointment is views carry significant weight in the Boards at the forthcoming AGM and will step down subject to the same appointment and removal decision making.
from the Board on 29 April 2015. process as the other Board Directors.
As can Independent Non-Executive Directors are be seen from the Directors biographies on In accordance with the requirement under currently appointed for fixed periods of three pages 42 to 43, the Directors have a broad the Code for annual election of Directors, years, subject to election by shareholders.
range of skills and experience and can bring all Directors, except for Roger Abravanel, The initial three-year period may be extended independent judgement to bear on issues of will be submitting themselves for re-election for two further three-year periods subject to strategy, performance, resources and standards by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Their letters of of conduct which are integral to the success The Board is satisfied that all are properly appointment may be inspected at the Companys of the Group.
qualified for their reappointment by virtue of registered office or can be obtained on request their skills and experience and their contribution from the Company Secretary.
to the Board and its Committees.
Although the Chairman has served in that role The Directors are given access to independent since July 2000 the Board remains of the view professional advice at the Groups expense, that he should continue in office.
The Chairman, should they deem it necessary to carry out along with all the Directors, seeks election by their responsibilities.
Current length of service as a Non-Executive Director at 31 December 2014 The table below details the length of service of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors and illustrates the balance of experience and fresh perspectives.
Director Date of appointment Current length of service as a Non-Executive Director at 31 December 2014 Alastair Lyons Chairman 1 July 2000 14 yrs 6 mths Manfred Aldag 13 March 2003 11 yrs 9 mths Margaret Johnson 4 September 2006 8 yrs 4 mths Lucy Kellaway 4 September 2006 8 yrs 4 mths Colin Holmes 3 December 2010 4 yrs 1 mth Roger Abravanel 6 March 2012 2 yrs 10 mths Annette Court 21 March 2012 2 yrs 9 mths Jean Park 17 January 2014 11 mths Penny James 1 January 2015 n a ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 47 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness continued Professional development Report that is circulated to the Board for their On appointment, Directors take part in consideration.
The Report contains an analysis a comprehensive induction programme of share price performance: a summary of analyst whereby they receive financial and operational reports received during the month and of The Company attaches information about the Group: details concerning meetings that have been held with investors their responsibilities and duties: as well as and analysts: together with details of any considerable importance an introduction to the Groups governance, significant changes to the shareholders register.
to communications The Senior Independent Director has specific This induction is supplemented by visits to responsibility to be available to investors who withshareholders and the Groups head office in Cardiff and overseas have any issues or concerns, and in cases where offices, and meetings with members of the senior contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive engages with them management team and their departments.
and Chief Financial Officer has either failed Development and training of Directors is an to resolve their concerns, or for where such regularly.
Throughout their period contact is inappropriate.
No such concerns in office the Directors are regularly updated have been raised in the year under review.
frequent dialogue on the Groups business: legal matters All shareholders are invited to attend the concerning their role and duties: the competitive withinvestors enables Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
environments in which the Group operates: The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, and any other significant changes affecting them to understand Nomination and Group Risk Committees attend the Group and the industry of which it is a the AGM along with the other Directors and are fully the Groups part.
All Board members are also encouraged available to answer shareholders questions to attend relevant training courses at the on the activities of the Committees they chair.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions The Board receives presentations from senior during the meeting and have an opportunity andgovernance.
managers within the Group on a regular basis to meet with Directors after the formal business and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged of the meeting has been concluded.
Details of to make informal visits to different parts of the proxy voting by shareholders, including votes Group to meet with local management.
withheld, are made available on request and Board Committees are placed on the Companys website following The Board has delegated authority to a number Engagement with shareholders the meeting.
of permanent Committees to deal with matters The Company attaches considerable importance in accordance with written Terms of Reference.
to communications with shareholders and The Group maintains a corporate The principal Committees of the Board Audit, engages with them regularly.
co. uk Remuneration, Group Risk and Nomination frequent dialogue with investors enables containing a wide range of information all comply fully with the requirements of them to understand fully the Groups strategy, of interest to institutional and private the Code.
The major shareholders of Relations team has day-to-day primary the Company are listed on page 74.
All Committees are chaired by an independent responsibility for managing communications Director, except the Nomination Committee with institutional shareholders through a which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Conflicts of interest combination of briefings to analysts and and comprise a majority of independent In compliance with the requirements of the institutional shareholders, both at the half year Directors.
Appointments to the Committees Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors duties and full year results.
A number of analysts are made on the recommendation of the in relation to conflicts of interest, the Groups and investors visited the Groups Cardiff office Nomination Committee and are for a period Articles of Association allow the Board to during the year to meet with the Executive of up to three years, which may be extended authorise potential conflicts of interest that may Directors and senior management in order for two further three-year periods, provided arise and to impose such limits as it thinks fit.
to get a better understanding of how the the Director remains independent.
The The Company has put in place procedures to Group operates and how it intends to achieve Committees are constituted with written deal with conflicts of interest.
These procedures its strategic and operational objectives.
Senior Terms of Reference that are reviewed annually include each Board member completing, Executives from the Groups overseas businesses to ensure that they remain appropriate and annually, a conflict of interest questionnaire also visit the UK in order to present to, and reflect any changes in good practice and that sets out any situation in which they, meet with, analysts and investors.
These Terms of Reference are or their connected persons have, or could and individual discussions with the Executive available on request from the Company have, a direct or indirect interest that could Directors are also arranged throughout the Secretary and can also be found on the conflict with the interests of the Company.
Any current directorships that they, or their Directors are fully informed of all Committee connected persons hold, any advisory roles In addition the Chairman had individual meetings matters by the Committee Chairs reporting or trusteeships held, together with any during the year with major shareholders and on the proceedings of their Committee at companies in which they hold more than 1% reported to the Board on issues raised with him.
Copies of of the issued share capital are also disclosed.
This is supplemented by feedback to the Committee minutes are also distributed to These procedures were reviewed by the Board Board on meetings between management and the Board.
Committees are authorised to in November 2014 and it was concluded that investors.
In addition, the Investor Relations obtain outside legal or other independent they continued to operate effectively.
team produces a quarterly Investor Relations professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Chair of each Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
48 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
