REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Statement from Alastair Lyons The Committee continued the development of a clear structured succession plan.
Alastair Lyons Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, The Nomination Committees primary responsibilities are to: In accordance with its remit to review regularly the composition and experience ofthe Board, the focus and attention of the Committee during the @ Lead the process for making year was onsuccession planning.
The Committee led the process of Executive appointments to the Board.
and Non-Executive Board appointments given Kevin Chidwicks move to @ Ensure there is a formal, rigorous devote himself full-time to the role of CEO of Elephant Auto, the Groups US and transparent procedure for the insurance business, entailing his stepping down from the role of CFO and from appointment of new Directors to membership of the Board, and John Sussens and Martin Jackson stepped the Board.
down from their Non-Executive roles on the Board during the year after their allotted nine years.
The Committee assessed the appropriateness of Geraint @ Ensure plans are in place for orderly Jones, the Deputy CFO, to succeed Kevin Chidwick as CFO and carried out a succession for appointments to the robust and comprehensive Non-Executive recruitment process resulting in the Board and for other senior appointment of Penny James.
This appointment further enhanced the range management positions.
ofskills, breadth of experience and diversity around the Board table.
In the context of several Directors retiring from the Board over the next twoyears, the Committee continued the development of a clear structured succession plan that would ensure appropriate action was taken well ahead ofthe dates on which individuals would be retiring in order to achieve their replacement, if appropriate, with individuals of the appropriate skills, experience and fit to the Board.
Given that Roger Abravanel will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM, the Nomination Committee will consider the appropriate size and composition of the Board going forward.
Alastair Lyons Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4 March 2015 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N Membership Appointments At this meeting the emerging talent across The membership of the Committee at the year Following this process, the Committee identified the Group was discussed in detail with the end was Alastair Lyons Chairman, Colin Penny James, who has extensive insurance Executive team identifying key individuals Holmes and Lucy Kellaway.
The Company experience in particular in her current role as within the organisation who had impressed Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Director of Group Finance at Prudential plc in their current roles and who had the The Committee invites the Chief Executive to since March 2011 and her previous appointments potential to contribute to the business by attend meetings when it deems appropriate.
as Chief Finance Officer of Omega Insurance working on projects in other areas of the The Nomination Committee met formally on Holdings and UK General Insurance CFO Group.
Such exposure would also assist one occasion in 2014 although members of the of Zurich Financial Services.
Given Pennys with their development in order that, at the Committee corresponded and met informally background, experience and competence, appropriate time, they might be in a position on a number of occasions to consider and and the external references that were obtained, to succeed to senior management positions.
meet with individuals that the Committee the Committee did not consider it either The Committee remains satisfied that had identified as possible candidates to join necessary or appropriate to undertake a full succession plans for Directors and senior the Board.
search led by an external recruitment consultancy.
management are in place to ensure the Each Committee member met separately continued ability of the Group to implement Nomination Committee attendance 1 meeting with Penny and agreed that she would bring its strategy and compete effectively in the Alastair Lyons invaluable insurance experience to the Board markets in which it operates.
Lucy Kellaway given her current role with Prudential plc.
The Board approved the Committees Board diversity Colin Holmes recommendation and following regulatory The Group remains strongly supportive of Chairman Member Did not attend approval Penny was formally appointed to the principle of boardroom diversity, of which the Board with effect from 1 January 2015. gender is an important, but not the only, aspect.
What is important is diversity of thought, Duties and responsibilities In August 2014 the Committee recommended experience and approach, and each new The Committee leads the process for making for approval by the Board the appointment of appointment must complement what already appointments to the Board or where the Geraint Jones as Chief Financial Officer CFO.
exists at the Board table.
Accordingly, appointee is likely to become a Board member.
Geraint took over from Kevin Chidwick, who appointments will always be made on merit The Committee ensures there is a formal, was handing over his CFO duties to focus on against objective criteria, including diversity, rigorous and transparent procedure for the his role in the US as CEO of the Groups rapidly and not just to achieve an externally prescribed appointment of new Directors to the Board growing Elephant Auto Insurance business.
Given five of the twelve current through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge Despite stepping off the Board, Kevin continues members of the Group Board are women, and experience required of Directors.
The to be involved in Group matters and to attend the Group has already met the target set for Committee also ensures plans are in place and contribute to all Group Board meetings.
2015 by Lord Davies in his report: Women for orderly succession for appointments to Geraint joined Admiral in 2002 and has since on Boards.
The Group remains committed the Board and reviews the succession plans then held a number of senior finance positions to providing equal opportunities, eliminating for other senior management positions.
including Head of Finance, before being discrimination and encouraging diversity Responsibility for making senior management promoted to Deputy Chief Financial Officer amongst its workforce both in the UK and appointments rests with the Chief Executive.
A Fellow of the Institute of overseas.
A breakdown of the gender of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Company Directors and senior employees During the year Geraint has also worked as an external auditor at the end of the financial year together During 2014, having regard to the length of at Ernst & Young and KPMG.
Geraints with details of the Groups Equality, Diversity service of some of the existing Board members, appointment demonstrates the depth of talent and Dignity at Work Policy are set out in the the Board decided to initiate a search for a that exists within Admirals senior management Directors Report on pages 73 to 75. new Non-Executive Director to join the Board team and his deep understanding of Admirals and to ensure continuity across the process of business and culture, coupled with strong Remuneration Committee succession that will ensue over the next couple leadership and financial skills, made him the Full details of the membership, responsibilities of years.
The Group has in place a policy of natural choice to succeed Kevin as CFO.
and activities of the Remuneration Committee recruiting well ahead of impending retirements can be found in the Directors Remuneration in order to ensure continuity of knowledge and Detailed information of individual Report set out on pages 60 to 72.
Directors can be found on pages 42 to 43 The Nomination Committee led this process Appointments made in thelast year and assessed the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, diversity and experience on Succession plan the Board.
The Committee developed an The Board, at its meeting in March 2014, appropriate specification for this role identifying considered the Groups current Succession the need for the successful candidate to have Plan, which considered the senior roles within insurance experience and a technical accounting the Group and identified whether there was qualification, with preferably experience in a emergency short term cover in place in the senior finance role within the insurance sector.
event that an individual left the organisation, and whether there was a permanent replacement Geraint Jones Penny James available within the organisation, or whether Chief Financial Non-Executive the position would need to be filled externally.
Officer, appointed Director, appointed It also identified where there were individuals in August 2014 in January 2015 who, with further experience and guidance, would be capable of moving into particular senior management roles.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 57
