CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 54 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Committee gave detailed consideration to the governance issues arising from Andrew Goulds appointment as interim Executive Chairman.
SIR JOHN HOOD | INTERIM CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The primary focus of the Committee during inthis context.
However, in recognition of best ethnicity and other forms of diversity, the 2014 has been succession planning at Board governance practice, it was agreed that Andrew Committee looks to achieve the appropriate level.
This focus has been divided between should step down as Chairman of the Committee balance of skills, experience, independence short-term recommendations to support the and as a member ofthe Remuneration Committee and knowledge of BG Group and the industry management of the Group during Andrew during his interim executive tenure and that asa whole amongst the Board, in order to Goulds interim tenure as Executive Chairman I be appointed interim Chairman of the support the Companys current and likely and longer-term succession planning for Committee during this time.
Andrew committed to keep his external Following the appointment of Helge Lund, ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE appointments under close review during his the proportion of women onthe Board is The Committee reviews regularly and, where interim executive tenure and to raise any actual now 23%.
In line with the recommendations appropriate, makes recommendations to the orperceived conflict with the Company Secretary.
ofthe Davies Report, the Committee continues Board regarding the balance of skills, experience, No such conflicts arose.
In March 2015, on tosupport the aspiration, set out in the Board independence and knowledge on the Board, the recommendation of the Committee, the Diversity Statement made inDecember 2013, and in its Committees.
Such review takes into Board agreed that Andrew be re-appointed as toincrease the proportion ofwomen on the account the Groups current requirements, Non-Executive Chairman for a further three-year Board to 25% by 2015. the results of the Boards performance evaluation term, subjectto annual re-election byshareholders.
CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS process and the future development of the OVERALL BOARD COMPOSITION The Committee has monitored the external Group.
Onan annual basis, theCommittee Baroness Hoggs decision to step down commitments of existing and potential Directors considers there-election of Directors prior to from the Audit and Nominations Committees, in relation tothe independence provisions set out their recommended approvalby shareholders.
formed a key element ofBoard discussion on in theCode, and the requirements in relation The terms of reference of the Committee succession planning during the year.
As part toconflicts of interest as set out in the Act.
Inline can be found at www.
com of their discussions, the Committee reviewed with the statement on page 80, thereare no nominationscommittee in detail the Boards current bench-strength matters in relation to Directors independence During 2014, the Committee invited a number of of skills and experience, to help identify required to be disclosed in this report.
During additional attendees to its meetings, including qualities for inclusion in the profile ofany 2014, appropriate procedures to manage other Committee Chairmen, Non-Executive future Non-Executive Director.
Following any actual, potential or perceived situational Directors and the Executive Vice President, itsdiscussions, the Committee proposed conflicts of interest that may arise were, at the Human Resources, to provide advice and enable theappointment of Pam Daley to the Audit Committees recommendation, put inplace the Committee to make informed decisions.
Committee with effect from 1 August 2014. by the Board.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Building on its previous work, the Committee PERFORMANCE REVIEW APPOINTMENT OF NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE agreed that the priorities forBoard succession The Committees performance was assessed The Committee judged that the succession process in 2015 are to: i identify adirector with broad aspart of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
for the new Chief Executive was sufficiently City, business, regulatory and government It was concluded that the Committee operated important as to be elevated for consideration as expertise: ii add additional financialand effectively and the results of thereview will a full Board matter.
In scheduling meetings and accounting expertise to the Audit Committee: beincorporated into the Committees processes interviews with prospective candidates, priority iii consider the appointment of a former oil and activities for 2015.
In particular, the Committee was given to Nominations Committee members.
and gasexecutive whobrings significant will focus on working with Helge Lund to develop Further details are set out onpage 75. capital project execution experience: and a comprehensive plan for senior executive iv identify potential candidates to succeed leadership succession.
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN me as Senior Independent Director and as SIR JOHN HOOD The Committee gave detailed consideration tothe Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
INTERIM CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS governance issues arising from Andrew Goulds The assessment for the succession to these COMMITTEE APRIL 2014 FEBRUARY 2015 appointment as interim Executive Chairman last two roles will be made against a number following the resignation of ChrisFinlayson.
ofcriteria including: level ofexternal commitments: experience on theBGGroup In assessing Andrews ability to manage Board: shareholder and wider stakeholder theGroup effectively under such exceptional engagement experience: and a detailed circumstances, the Committee reviewed, in working knowledge of wider governance particular, Andrews external appointments, matters impacting UK listed companies.
both in terms of his ongoing time commitment and any actual or perceived conflict of interest, DIVERSITY and his Board sub-Committee membership.
The Committee values diversity in its broadest TheCommittee was satisfied that Andrews sense when considering appointments to interim appointment would be manageable the Board.
In addition to considering gender, BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
