CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 60 COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Listing Rules stipulate that listed companies must include in their annual report a statement of whether the company has complied with all the relevant provisions of theUK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
uk During 2014, it has not been possible to comply fully with the Code.
The notes below are intended to assist with the evaluation of the Groups compliance during 2014 and to explain areas of non-compliance andthe processes put in place to support the continuation of best governance principles.
1 THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible to BG Groups shareholders The Chairman manages the Board and, in At 31 December 2014, there were 10 Non-Executive for promoting the long-term success of the consultation with the Company Secretary, sets the Directors on the Board, together with the interim Group and the operation of effective governance Boards agenda for the year.
Board meetings are Executive Chairman andone Executive Director.
The steps the Board takes to arranged to ensure sufficient time is available facilitate this are outlined in the Corporate forthediscussion of all items and the Board meets Following Mr Lunds appointment as Chief Executive and Governance report set out on pages 44 to 81. annually for a planning conference at which Executive Director on 9 February 2015, there are now two strategic issues are considered in depth.
Details Executive Directors and 10 Non-Executive Directors, in The Board oversees the Groups strategy and of the 2014 Board Planning Conference are set addition to the Chairman.
On appointment, Mr Lund joined ensures that necessary resources are available, out on page 48. the Chairmans Committee and the Finance Committee.
and that the appropriate risk management controls, processes and culture are in place to deliver it.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman was During 2014, theBoard reviewed the overall balance As well as oversight, responsibility for financial independent on appointment and the ongoing ofskills, experience, independence and knowledge performance, internal control and risk management test ofindependence for the Chairman is ofBoard and Committee members and their diversity, of the Group, there is a full list of the matters not appropriate.
including gender, and subsequently made a number reserved to the Board for decision which is ofchanges toensure thatCommittee membership was published at www.
4 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS both compliant and appropriately refreshed.
Following Sir John Hood was Senior Independent Director this review, Vivienne Cox and Caio Koch-Weser joined the The Board held seven scheduled meetings during 2014 during 2014.
The responsibilities of the Senior Nominations Committee, Martin Ferguson and Baroness and holds additional meetings, as required.
In2014, Independent Director include meeting major Hogg joined the Sustainability Committee and, later in the number of ad hoc meetings of the Boardwas shareholders as an alternative contact to 2014, Pam Daley joined the Audit Committee.
During his significantly higher than normal in view principally the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial interim executive tenure, Andrew Gould stepped down of the Chief Executive search process.
The role is clearly established and a as Chairman of the Nominations Committee andas a are expected, wherever possible, to attend all Board description of the key responsibilities is member of the Remuneration Committee.
Further details and relevant Committee meetings inaddition published at www.
com SID The Senior in relation to the changes made to thecomposition to general meetings of the Company, including the Independent Director is expected to commit of the Board and Committees are set outin the AGM.
Detailsof Board and Board Committee three to four days peryear to the role and will Nominations Committee report on page 54. attendance for2014 are set out on page48.
commit significantly moreinexceptional years such as 2014.
This is inaddition tothe expected The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors All Directors are covered by the Groups Directors time commitment ofaNon-Executive Director.
tobeindependent and free of any business relationships and Officers Insurance policy.
thatcould compromise the exercise of independent In accordance with the Code, Non-Executive andobjective judgement.
2 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Directorsare urged to challenge constructively Code, theBoard undertakes an annual review of The Board supports the separation of the roles and help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the independence of its Non-Executive Directors.
The key the performance of management in meeting responsibilities which are attributable to each agreed goalsand objectives and monitor the Chris Finlayson resigned from the Board on 27 April 2014 roleare clearly defined and are published at reporting of performance.
They should satisfy and Peter Backhouse retired as a Non-Executive Director www.
com  themselves on the integrity of financial information on15 May 2014, at the conclusion of the AGM.
and that financial controls and systems of risk The Chairman leads the Board andisresponsible for management are robustand defensible.
By the dateofthe 2015 AGM, Baroness Hogg will have the balance and composition oftheBoard and its served on the Board for 10 years.
In accordance with the Committees, enabling them tooperate effectively.
As part of the internal evaluation in 2014, Code, the Board has determined that Baroness Hogg has The Chief Executive is expected to leadthe business Sir John Hood and the Non-Executive Directors retained independence of character and judgement and and manage the Group within theauthorities considered, without the Chairman present, the has not formed associations with the Company that delegated by the Board to develop and implement Chairmans performance.
The next performance might compromise her ability to exercise independent strategy successfully.
evaluation willtake place during 2015 as part judgement, notwithstanding her length of service.
of theexternally facilitated Board evaluation.
On 27 April 2014, Chris Finlayson resigned as Chief Whilst Andrew Gould was interim Executive B.
2 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD Executive and Executive Director with immediate Chairman, SirJohn Hood also met withhis fellow Mr Lund was appointed as Chief Executive and Executive effect.
Following the recommendation of the Non-Executive Directors without theExecutive Director on 9February 2015.
The succession process Nominations Committee, it was agreed that it was Directors being present on several occasions and ultimate appointment were overseen by the Board.
inthe best interests of the Group that Andrew Gould during 2014, and individually witheach Further details are set out in the Chairmans introductory step into therole of Executive Chairman on an Non-Executive Director.
Further details concerning the interim basis.
Inaccordance with the requirements Boards policies on diversity and succession are set out of the Code and governance best practice, During the year, the Directors had no unresolved on pages 52 and 54.
Andrew Gould stepped down as Chairman of concerns about the running of the Company or the Nominations Committee and as a member anyproposed action.
It is Company policy that B.
3 COMMITMENT oftheRemuneration Committee for the duration anysuch unresolved concern must be recorded During 2014, the Board considered the external ofhisinterim executive tenure.
commitments of its Chairman, Senior Independent and other Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied that these The Board was keen to resume full compliance do not conflict with their duties and time commitments withthe Code atthe earliest reasonable opportunity, asDirectors of the Company.
It is the Companys but equally recognised that it was in the Groups policytoallow each Executive Director to accept one bestinterests todevote appropriate time in order non-executive directorship of another company.
toidentify an exceptional Chief Executive candidate.
4 DEVELOPMENT With effect from 9 February 2015, Helge Lund was A full induction programme is provided to all Directors appointed as Chief Executive and Executive Director appointed to the Board, which takes into account their and Andrew Gould resumed his previous role as qualifications and experience.
Details of the induction Non-Executive Chairman, and the division of programmes provided to Pam Daley and Martin Ferguson responsibilities between the roles of Chairman are set out on page 52.
A tailored induction programme andChief Executive was reinstated.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT | COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 61 B: EFFECTIVENESS C. ACCOUNTABILITY D. REMUNERATION for Helge Lund was planned by the Company Secretary in C. 1 FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING D. 1 THE LEVEL AND COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION early 2015 and will be reported in the 2015 Annual Report.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities The Remuneration report on pages 62 to77 outlines regarding the Financial statements, including the the activities of the Committee during 2014 and sets Each year, the Directors receive a number of teach-ins status of the Group as a going concern, is set out out the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy inorder to update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
onpage 81, with an explanation of the Groups table, including relevant remuneration components During 2014, a Non-Executive Directors site visit strategy and business model, together with and how they support the achievement of the programme was established to support familiarity relevant risks and performance metrics, strategic objectives of the Group.
The Annual with the Groups operations.
Details of some of the which are setoutonpages 2 to 41.
Remuneration Report outlines the implementation development activities provided in 2014 are set out on of remuneration during 2014 including salary, pages 52 and 53.
The Directors also met individually A further statement is provided on page 81, bonus and share awards and payments for loss with the Company Secretary in consultation with confirming that the Board considers that the of office paid to Directors.
the Chairman, to discuss and agree their training Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, and development needs.
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides The Board believes that the Groups current the information necessary for shareholders to Remuneration Policy, as approved by shareholders B.
5 INFORMATION AND SUPPORT assess theCompanys position, performance, atthe 2014 AGM, remains appropriate and fit The Directors have full access to the advice and services businessmodel and strategy.
of the Company Secretary and may obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense if In undertaking their respective roles, the Board D. 2 PROCEDURE The Board has delegated a number of they believe it may be required in the furtherance andthe Audit Committee noted the output of of their duties.
TheSharman Inquiry on going concern and liquidity responsibilitiesto the Remuneration Committee, including the setting of the Groups overall riskassessments and, in late 2014, the publication The Company Secretary is responsible to the ofanew version of the Code which will apply to remuneration policy and strategy, as well as the remuneration arrangements for the Board on anumber of issues and full details of the the Group for the year ending31December 2015.
Company Secretarys responsibilities are published at Further details on these considerations are set ExecutiveDirectors, EMC and GLT.
com governance The removal of the in the Audit Committee reporton page 56.
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Full details are set out in theterms of C. 2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL reference for the Committee published at Guidelines are in place and are subject to frequent review The Board has carried out a robust assessment www.
com  of the principal risks facing the Company, including concerning the content, timeliness and presentation of Board and Committee papers from management those that would threaten its business model, During 2014, no individual was present when future performance, solvency or liquidity.
theirown remuneration was being discussed.
toensure that the Board is briefed effectively.
During 2014, the required format for Boardreports was updated Further details can be found on pages 34 to 41. to provide Directors withenhanced qualitative narrative.
The Board determines the Companys risk appetite andhas established risk management B.
6 EVALUATION E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS In 2014, performance evaluations of the Board, its and internal control systems.
At least annually, the Board undertakes a review of their E. 1 DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS Committees and individual Directors were carried out The Board recognises that meaningful engagement internally.
External evaluation last took place in 2012 effectiveness.
Further details are set out on pages 58 and 59. with its institutional and retail shareholders is and will take place again in 2015, now Mr Lund hasjoined integral to the continued success of the Company.
The 2014 evaluation considered independence, BG Group operates a reasonable, rather than conflicts of interest, balance of skills, knowledge of Throughout 2014, members of the Board have the Company and all types of diversity.
Further details absolute, assurance system designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to sought actively to engage with shareholders of the evaluation, together with recommendations for on a number of occasions, through meetings, 2015, can be found on page 51.
In support of transparency achieve business objectives.
and best practice, a tender process will be held for C. 3 AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITOR Board evaluation services ahead of the 2015 external E. 2 CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF GENERAL MEETINGS The Audit Committee report on pages 56 to 59 evaluation of the Board.
sets out details of the composition of the The AGM will be held on 5 May 2015 and is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain Committee, including the expertise of members, As part of this internal evaluation, the Non-Executive and outlines how the Committee has discharged aspects of Group business, in person.
The Board Directors evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
values the AGM as an opportunity to meet with its responsibilities during 2014. those shareholders able to attend and to take Following the evaluation, the Directors concluded that theirquestions.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities the Board and its Committees operated effectively and to the Audit Committee, including: oversight of the that each Director continues to contribute effectively The Notice of AGM is sent to all shareholders who Groups financial reporting processes: management and demonstrate commitment to their role including of the external auditor: and management of internal have requested to receive hard copy documentation the necessary time commitment.
from the Company and is setout on pages 146 risk management processes.
Full details are set out in the terms of reference for the Committee, to 147 of this report ormaybe viewed at B.
com auditcommittee Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment, and re-election at each subsequent AGM.
Accordingly, Helge Lund will stand for election at the 2015 AGM.
The Directors unanimously recommend the re-election ofall other members of the Board.
Full biographical details for all Directors can be found on pages 46 and 47.
InSeptember 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC published a new version of the Code the New Code and related guidance related to risk management and internal control.
The New Code applies to the Group from 1January 2015.
While reporting under the existing Code inrelation to2014, BG Group is committed to operating in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance and has worked since the publication oftheNew Code to put in place processes and procedures toallow ongoing compliance with the New Code.
Details of this compliance willbe set out inthe 2015 Annual Report andAccounts.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
