CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION REPORT | ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 76 GOVERNANCE AND ADVISERS TO THEREMUNERATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEES RESPONSIBILITIES The Committees principal responsibilities are: The full terms of reference of the Committee No individual was present when their can be found on the BGGroup website at ownremuneration was being discussed.
Setting, reviewing and recommending to www.
com  the Board for approval theGroups overall The Committee also meets without andcopiesare available on request.
remuneration policy and strategy: management present and receives See page 48 for the Directors who were independent executive remuneration Setting, reviewing and approving the members of theRemuneration Committee advice and information from remuneration arrangements including any when matters relating to the Directors external advisers see table opposite.
bonuses, incentive payments, share awards, remuneration for theyear were considered.
pension andbenefit arrangements, and termination payments of the Chairman, During the year, the Committee alsoinvited ChiefExecutive and Executive Directors: thefollowing individuals toattendon certain occasions to provide advicetotheCommittee Reviewing and approving the remuneration toenable it to makeinformed decisions: arrangements including anybonuses, incentive payments, share awards, pension Interim Executive Chairman: and benefit arrangements, and termination Chief Executive: payments of members of the GLT who are not Executive Directors, and the Executive Vice President, Company Secretary: and Human Resources: and Reviewing and approving the rules of and any Head of Reward.
significant amendment to any LTIP whether cash or share-based, DBP, cash-based incentive The Company Secretary attended meetings plan, or share plan, subject to final approval assecretary to the Committee.
bythe Board and or shareholders, wherenecessary.
EXTERNAL ADVISERS AND FEES KEPLER During the year, Kepler Associates provided Kepler Associates was formally re-appointed 132 951 on the basis of time incurred, ASSOCIATES theCommittee with advice on market bythe Committee in 2012 as adviser to the andexpenses.
trends, incentive schemes and other Committee, following a competitive selection remuneration matters.
Kepler does not provide any other services to the Group, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice it received was objective and independent.
TOWERS During the year, the Committee received Towers Watson also provided general 20 500 on the basis of time incurred, WATSON marketinformation from Towers Watson.
compensation and benefits information, andexpenses.
general consultancy services to the Group andactuarial advice to the Trustees of the BGPension Scheme.
Towers Watson was selected by the Company and the Committee issatisfied that the market information it received was objective and independent.
ALITHOS During the year, Alithos Limited, an Alithos also provided reports to the Group 26 750 on the basis of a fixed fee for LIMITED independentTSR monitoring service, onBG Groups TSR performance and on therequested reports.
providedthe Committee with reports on itssector peers.
Alithos was selected by the theCompanys TSR performance relative Company and the Committee is satisfied that totherelevant indices.
the information it received was independent and objective.
SLAUGHTER During the year, Slaughter and May provided Slaughter and May was selected by the 2 500 on the basis of time incurred, AND MAY theCommittee with legal advice on certain Committee Chairman from a shortlist of andexpenses.
matters relating to executive remuneration.
legalfirms that do not provide any other services to the Group, and the Committee issatisfied that the advice it received was objective and independent.
Kepler Associates, Towers Watson, Alithos Limited, and Slaughter and May have given, and not withdrawn, their consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the form and context in which they appear.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
