STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION REPORT | ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 75 RECRUITMENT OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE inthe form of aconditional award of shares BONUS ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME Following the identification of Helge Lund, subject to the 2015 LTIP performance conditions.
At its December 2014 meeting, the Remuneration during 2014, as the preferred Chief Executive At grant, theexpected value of the initial award Committee considered the design of the AIS for candidate, the Board and the Committee was approximately 4.6 million and the face 2015.
The Committee determined that the AIS sought to structure and agree a competitive value was approximately 10.6 million.
continues to incentivise the achievement of the remuneration package that in its design would Companys strategic and business priorities On 9 March 2015, Mr Lund was also granted promote the long-term success of the Company, appropriately and, accordingly, the Committee an award of 31 735 shares to buy out the 2014 by aligning the variable components of retained the same performance measures bonus foregone on leaving his former employer.
MrLunds remuneration with the Companys andweightings forthe 2015 AIS, as described The award vested immediately and the performance and the interests of shareholders.
Stretching AIS resulting shares net of tax were retained by We consulted extensively with our shareholders performance targets were determined by MrLund in accordance with the shareholding on the proposed package and were made reference to the Board-approved budget for guidelines.
On 9 March 2015, Mr Lund was aware of a number of concerns, particularly 2015.
The Committee expects to follow the alsogranted an award over 48 976 shares relating to the proposed conditional share same two-stage review process as in prior inthe form of a conditional award of shares to award.
Based on this feedback and following years, to review the performance outcomes buy out theshare awards foregone onleaving discussions with Mr Lund, on 1 December 2014 foreach metric and the overall outcome in his former employer.
The award is subject to we announced revisions to the remuneration thecontext ofthe underlying performance continued employment but without Company package that brought all elements of and prospects ofthe business.
performance conditions consistent with MrLunds remuneration within the Directors theawards being bought out.
The face value In accordance with the approved remuneration Remuneration Policy, approved by shareholders ofthese awards at grant was approximately policy, the AIS targets will be disclosed following in May 2014.
The conditional share award was 750 000 and theirexpected value is no more the completion of the financial year, when replaced by an initial award of shares under than the valueofthe bonus and share awards they are no longer commercially sensitive.
the Companys LTIP, which will be subject to foregone.
Further details of these awards will the LTIP Company performance conditions OTHER MATTERS be provided in the2015 Remuneration report.
based on the basket of metrics as described Additional detail on any other remuneration above.
On 9 February 2015, Mr Lund joined Mr Lund has indicated that he intends to matters relating to 2015 that have yet to be theCompany as Chief Executive and, on holdall shares that vest to him net of tax determined, including any reviews of salaries for 9March 2015, Mr Lund was granted the initial forthe duration of his employment with Executive Directors or fees for Non-Executive award as an LTIP PSA over 1 141 011 shares BGGroup.
Directors and any LTIP grants, will be provided in the disclosures that will form part of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
OTHER DISCLOSURES EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS AS AT 18 MARCH 2015 Details of the service contracts of the current The Companys policy is to include change of Additionally, all the Companys share plans Executive Directors are set out below: control provisions in the Executive Directors contain provisions relating to a change of service contracts.
In general, outstanding awards and Contract Notice Executive Directors date period that these provisions assist with recruitment options would normally vest and become a Helge Lund 15 Oct 14 1 year and retention and that their inclusion is exercisable on a change of control, to the Simon Lowth 3 Jul 13 1 year therefore in the best interests of shareholders.
extent that any performance conditions have Should an Executive Directors employment been satisfied at that time.
If the Committee a Helge Lund was appointed as Executive Director and be terminated within 12 months of a change considers it appropriate, given the circumstances Chief Executive on 9 February 2015.
He is subject to of control, they are entitled to liquidated of the change of control, time apportionment election as a Director by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
damages equal to one years gross salary plus may also apply.
30% of base salary as a pension contribution or as cash in lieu of pension less any deductions the employer is required to make.
The Committee considers this to be a genuine pre-estimate of loss.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
