STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD EVALUATION It is the Boards policy to invite external evaluation and their operation: shareholder andstakeholder operate effectively within an environment of the Board, its Committees and the role of communication: induction anddevelopment: that is collegiate, cohesive and constructive.
individual Directors in alternate years.
However, and risk management and internalcontrol.
Inaddition, the Committee structure in place, in view of the changes at Board and executive together with the orderly and thoughtful Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, who management level during 2014, itwas agreed refreshment of theBoard in recent years, conducted the 2012 external evaluation exercise, to delay the planned tender for Board evaluation hasensured that anappropriate level supported Sir John Hood in his framing of the services and the external evaluation process itself, ofspecialist support and assurance is conversations with fellow Directors and in collating until the new ChiefExecutive had joined the Board.
The 2014 Board evaluation process was Her only connection with BG Group is her A review of the progress against the facilitated by the Senior Independent Director workwith the Board onevaluation.
2013-14 objectives, together with an outline and the Committee Chairmen and covered of theproposed 2015 initiatives as a result The results of the evaluation concluded that, anumber of areas, including: Board structure ofthis yearsinternal evaluation, isset despite the challenging and transitional year and composition including diversity : Committees outbelow.
for theCompany, the Board continued to EVALUATION SUMMARY 2013 EVALUATION RECOMMENDATIONS 2014 ACTIONS TAKEN Further promotion of a more holistic, During 2014, the Chief Financial Officer led a review of the Groups existing risk management processes.
integrated and quantifiable discussion on Following this review, risk management activity was integrated into existing business planning riskand risk management at Board level.
The Board received briefings during the year relating to this integration and the Groups risk assessment methodology, which was also refined in 2014.
The integrated output of the Groups 2014 Enterprise Risk Management process was presented to the Board in December 2014 to support and assure the assumptions made under the 2015 business plan.
In 2015, the Board will focus on refining the governance, and risk management and internal control, processes leading to capital project sanction.
Regular reviews and consideration Post investment appraisals and lessons learnt discussions were undertaken at a Group andasset of learnings from past investments level, and were raised to the Board, as appropriate.
The lessons learnt from the sanction of the and projects.
QCLNG project will be used to inform the framework of engagement with the Board on future major investment decisions.
They will also influence the structure of the overall governance andassurance processes surrounding those decisions.
Continued focus on macroeconomic and The outlook for energy markets and industry and competitor trends were key topics presented market developments and the impact at the 2014 Board Planning Conference, with particular focus on the implications for BG Group onthecompetitive landscape.
and its peer group companies.
Following this considered review, further updates were provided tothe Board on a relevant basis during the year.
The Board considered in detail the evolving commodity price environment and what specific oil price scenarios could mean operationally and financially for the Group.
Enhancement of Board administration The Board has used Board dinners to discuss prospectively, and in a more informal setting, matters, including: agenda items for future Board meetings.
Board dinners were also used as part of the Development of a rolling agenda for Board ChiefExecutive succession and induction process.
dinners, with specific topics nominated Further work will be carried out in 2015 by the Chief Executive, in consultation with the foreach: Company Secretary, to redesign Board papers to bemore succinct and focused in drawing Targeted use of external speakers outthe key issues and risks to be debated.
tocomplement current Board debate: and Further work to ensure timely delivery of Board papers that highlight issues for debate.
Further direct engagement between Board The Non-Executive Directors site visit programme was launched during the year to facilitate members and the business through tailored engagement between Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
Details of sites site visits and smaller group engagements.
andprojects visited are set out on page 53 of this report.
The Chairman and Chief Financial Officer have additionally undertaken a number of site visits asamatter of course in 2014.
Focus on executive succession planning.
Succession planning activity in 2014 focused on the search for a new Chief Executive following theresignation of Chris Finlayson in April 2014.
Wider succession planning initiatives will remain afocusin 2015 and beyond.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR 2015 Promote in-depth, focused debate at the Board Planning Conference by limiting the agenda to the consideration of a smaller number of strategic issues.
Diarise time at each scheduled Board meeting to allow for the ongoing consideration of one strategic issue or risk identified at the Board Planning Conference.
Support the Nominations Committee in extending its brief and agenda to encompass succession planning for all key leadership positions within the Company.
Continue to support the Non-Executive Directors site visit programme established during 2014.
Build strong relationships with the Groups shareholder base, including through consultation on the Groups revised Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Continue to develop a rolling agenda for Board dinners.
In advance of the scheduled external evaluation of the Board in 2015, a tender process will be carried out for Board evaluation services tosupport continued transparency and best practice.
Details of the tender process will beincluded within the 2015 Annual Report andAccounts.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 9 years 6-9 years 3-6 years Australasia 0-3 years Asia Africa & Middle East Industry Diplomatic & The government Americas Europe Finance Extractive International CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 52 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS a b BY SECTOR EXPERIENCE DIVERSITY BY SECTOR EXPERIENCE BY SECTOR EXPERIENCE G ENDER DIVER BY TENURE SITY GENDER DIVERSITY WITHIN BG GROUP a a BY NUMBER BY NUMBER by number WITHIN BG GR by number OUP % % The Board continues to recognise that diversityisthe key foundation for introducing different perspectives into Board debate 27 27 andfor better anticipating the risks and opportunities in building a long-term, 4 4 Extractive Extractive sustainable business.
Gender remains an 1 2 3 important aspect of the overall diversity | 75 25 Finance 6 Finance 6 4 7 8 9 towhich chairmen should have regard Board inestablishing optimal Board balance Diplomatic & Gov.
Industry 9 Industry 9 At BG Group, diversity is valued in its broadest sense and we retain a diverse mix ofskills, c 1.
Board 75 | 25 experience, independence and knowledge, a d BY GEOGRAPHICAL EXPERIENCE 2.
Senior management 81 | 19 BY TENURE BY TENURE including corporate memory, onthe Board.
by number b b BY NUMBER BY NUMBER 3.
Whole organisation 73 | 27 TheNominations Committee supports Male Female the Board in the consideration of diversity in relation to Board composition and 13 13 a Where a Director is considered to have experience in | succession planning.
Furtherdetails are 79 21 eithermultiple sectors or geographies, they have been setout in the Nominations Committee recognised in all relevant areas.
0-3 Years 6 0-3 Years 6 Senior b Includes both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
For reporton page 54. management Directors in role at 31 December 2014, tenure is calculated in 3-6 Years 4 3-6 Years 4 GENDER DIVERSITY DISCLOSURE full years from date of appointment to 31 December 2014. c This diagram sets out gender diversity at Board level as In accordance with reporting requirements 6-9 Years 3 6-9 Years 3 at31December 2014.
At the date of this report and noting 13 10 4 4 3 3 setout in the Companies Act2006 the Act, the appointment of Helge Lund, these figures will have disclosure isprovided opposite in respect changed to 77 Male 23 Female.
ofgender diversity at Board level, senior d BG Group considers that a more meaningful measure BY GEOGRAPHICAL EXPERIENCE BY GEOGRAPHICAL EXPERIENCE ofsenior management than that defined by the Act management including directors of subsidiary a a BY NUMBER BY NUMBER is employees in leadership positions, in line with the companies and in the organisation as a definition used withinthe Groups Diversity Statement.
whole, in each case asat 31 December 2014.
At31December 2014, 8% of employees in leadership At 31 December 2014 Additional Director from | 72 28 positions were female.
36 36 1 January 2015 onwards Whole organisation International 13 International 13 INDUCTION TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The Company Secretary facilitates this On joining BG Group, all Directors receive All Directors are expected to commit to programme and maintains individual training Europe 10 Europe 10 afull, formal induction programme, tailored continuing their development during their tenure, and development logs for each Non-Executive Male The Americas 4 The Americas 4 totheir specific requirements and delivered over and the Chairman and Company Secretary Director, to which theChairman has access.
The Groups aimisto meet annually with each Non-Executive The Executive Directors also receive the benefit Africa & Middle East 3 Africa & Middle East 3 provide a deep understanding of BGGroups Director to discuss their workwith the Board offormal teach-ins and technical updates business and organisation, theGroups andagree individual development goals.
provided at scheduled Board meetings and at Asia 3 Asia 3 operations and the governance environment.
The formal Non-Executive Director training and anumber of Audit and Remuneration Committee Australasia 3 Australasia 3 In 2014, the Group provided tailored programmes development programme established during meetings each year, which aim to ensure that for Pam Daley, a Non-Executive Director and 2014 has brought together avariety of informal thefull Board remains up-to-date with key Audit Committee member, and Martin Ferguson, internal discussion groups and briefings, formal developments in the business environment At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2014 a Non-Executive Director andSustainability teach-ins, technical updates and external inwhich the Group operates.
At 2 March 2015 At 2 March 2015 Committee member.
Thetailored induction training programmes, focused onsupporting TheBoard also received regular updates from programme included anoversight of the the Board in the discharge oftheir duties in a Group functions such as Investor Relations, Groupsgovernance requirements, a detailed complex regulatory andbusiness environment.
Policy and Corporate Affairs and HR.
In addition, overview of the Groups operations and In addition, Non-Executive Directors are the Company Secretary provided the Board tailored discussions with key senior encouraged to participate in asset and site with regular updates during 2014on the overall management to support both their main visits.
Further details of this programme regulatory and corporate governance landscape Boardand .
are set outon page 53. and specific developments relevant to the Group, the Board and its Committees.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 53 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SITE VISIT PROGRAMME In fulfilment of a recommendation arising AUSTRALIA Pyi Taw, the capital, with senior members of out ofthe 2013 Board evaluation process, the Martin Ferguson, a member of the Sustainability government, including theVice-President and Group has sought to provide Non-Executive Committee, attended a two-day training course the Minister of Energy, they visited Yangon Directors with further opportunity for direct at the Queensland Combined Emergency andmet with representatives of civil society, engagement with the business through tailored Services Academy at Whyte Island in the Port academia andthe international community.
site visitswhich facilitate engagement on of Brisbane, Queensland.
The course was The meetings covered economic and political anindividual level.
specifically designed to provide the QCLNG reform, preparations for the 2015 election, team with a heightened awareness of the real thenationwide ceasefire agreement, social Non-Executive Directors areencouraged risks of major accident events and what investment and institutional capacity tostrengthen and refresh their knowledge controls need to be in place to prevent them.
ofthe Group by visiting key assets when the The course uses practical demonstrations, role time and opportunity allows.
The Company SINGAPORE playing and modern learning techniques to Secretary discussed with each Director the Lim Haw-Kuang, a member of the Audit provide a deeper awareness ofmajor accident assets that they would like to visit based on Committee, visited the Groups Global risks and provoke a personal commitment their knowledge of the business, expertise and EnergyMarketing & Shipping operations tohelp reduce the possibility ofsuch an Committee membership, and a programme based in Singapore and received briefings event occurring in theGroup.
Directors may also elect onanumber of topics, including the to accompany Executive Directors or senior LNGvaluechain and pricing challenges, BRAZIL management on scheduledvisits.
together with an overview of the LNG Vivienne Cox, a member of the Sustainability supplyportfolio.
An overview of the key visits made during Committee, visited the Groups project inBrazil, the year is set out below.
where she received business and operational TANZANIA briefings, as well as updates onmatters ofpolicy Pam Daley and Patrick Thomas accompanied ABERDEEN and corporate affairs.
Inaddition to visiting theChairman, Andrew Gould, and Sami Sir John Hood, Martin Ferguson and Sir the Groups offices, Vivienne attended site tours Iskander, Chief Operating Officer, on a visit to David Manning accompanied Sir John Grant, oftwo research and development facilities, the Tanzania, where they attended engagements Executive Vice President, Policy & Corporate Research Center ofPetrobras and the GEBrazil with key government, privatesector and Affairs, on a visit tothe Europe E&P asset Global Research Center, bothinRiodeJaneiro.
NGO personnel, includingthe President and inAberdeen.
They received a number of the Minister ofEnergy.
Additionally, they briefings and technical updates on matters MYANMAR attended the opening of the LNG project such as new regulation and fiscal reform led The Chairman of the Sustainability Committee, office and visited the Groups logistics bythe Asset General Manager and his senior Sir David Manning, and CaioKoch-Weser visited baseatMtwara and thedrillship, leadership team and attended a site visit Myanmar where the Group acquired exploration Deep Sea Metro 1. toSubsea7s Wick Fabrication Site.
Aftermeetings inNay APPOINTMENT OF HELGE LUND In April 2014, a rigorous process was Strong experience of working with WHAT HELGE BRINGS TO THE ROLE launched to identify and recruit a new governments and partners: Education: business management, ChiefExecutive.
The Board agreed that the Norwegian School of Economics, and Proven understanding and application appointment was sufficiently important to Masterof Business Administration, ofworld-class portfolio management: be considered as a matter by the full Board.
The process was led by the Chairman and A strong track record of project delivery: and Experience: more than 12 years as a Senior Independent Director, with the Leadership within a strong, values-based ChiefExecutive and more than 10 years regular engagement of, and interaction culture.
in the oil andgas industry.
International exposure: international The day-to-day search including the initial The Board received regular updates on the experience of operating in 36 countries.
identification of potential candidates was status of the process and determined the managed by the Executive Vice President, shortlist of candidates against these criteria.
Expertise: business, financial, diplomatic, Human Resources with the support of Interviews of shortlisted candidates were shareholder andgovernment.
external consultants, Russell Reynolds who held by Board members, with priority given Industry experience: oil and gas industry, areindependent and are signatories to the to Nominations Committee members.
pharmaceuticals, offshore construction Voluntary Code of Conduct ongender At the end of the process, the full Board andengineering.
approved the appointment of Helge Lund The Board as a whole considered the asChief Executive on 15 October 2014. specificqualities they were looking for in Following the identification of Mr Lund as anew Chief Executive, which included: the preferred candidate, the Board sought A proven track record as a successful leader to agree a competitive remuneration in the oil and gas, or a related, industry: package to secure his appointment.
Further details regarding the shareholder Broad knowledge and demonstrable expertise consultation process surrounding the of operating in international business: remuneration arrangements are set out Credible relationships with relevant in the Remuneration report, page 62. externalstakeholders: BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
