CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 56 AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee has focused on supporting andchallenging management toreach balancedjudgements on impairments, risk management andthe effectiveness of internal control processes.
MARK SELIGMAN | CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee has a fundamental The Committee has also paid close attention joined the Committee on 1 August, 2014: roletoplay in reviewing, monitoring and tothe changes in UK regulation regarding risk Pams contribution to the Committee is already challenging the effectiveness of BG Groups management and going concern statements.
financial reporting and internal control Inlate 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC MARK SELIGMAN processes.
This has been a challenging year for issued a new version of the UK Corporate CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE the Group, notably in view of management Governance Code the New Code which transition and the impact ofdeclining oil willapply to the Group for the year ending prices.
The Committee has focused on 31December 2015.
The New Code introduces a ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE supporting and challenging management to new model regarding going concern and will ask The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its reach balanced judgements onimpairments, the Board to consider whether itisappropriate responsibilities in respect of: overseeing BGGroups risk management and the effectiveness to adopt the going concern basisof accounting financial reporting processes: reviewing, ofinternal control processes.
and identify any material uncertainties to their challenging and approving significant accounting ability to continue to do so.
The New Code This focus and challenge has taken several forms.
judgements proposed by management: the way provides that the Board must state whether they The Committee considered whether the Group in which management ensures and monitors the believe that the Group will be able to continue had robust systems and procedures in place for adequacy of financial and compliance controls in operation and meet itsliabilities, taking account recognising assets and liabilities to ensure value and business risk management and assurance of the Groups current position and principal risks is recorded accurately and fairly.
To support processes: the appointment, remuneration, the viability statement.
The Committee has spent this, the Committee also reviewed the Groups independence and performance of the Groups time during 2014 considering its readiness to accounting systems, policies and procedures.
external auditor: and the independence and provide such a statement.
During 2015, this Taking these into consideration, the Committee performance of Group Audit.
new requirement will be at the forefront of the reviewed the judgements made by management Committees mind as it monitors and reviews the Details of the work carried out by the Committee to confirm that the financial statements produced Groups processes to support the methodology in accordance with its terms of reference and in during the year were reliable and provided the and data underlying these new statements.
addressing significant issues are reported to the true and fair view expected.
TheCommittee also Board as a matter of course by the Chairman of reviewed the Groups risk management processes During 2014, the Committee reviewed changes the Committee and are described in this report.
and associated internal controls supported to the Groups risk management processes The terms of reference for the Committee can be byGroup Audit and the external auditor.
tointegrate risk more fully into the Groups found at www.
com auditcommittee business planning and forecasting processes.
The Code invites the Committee to report on The introduction of the New Code and revised Mark Seligman, achartered accountant, has been the significant issues considered during the related guidance supports the Committees determined by the Board as the member of the year.
Full details are contained on the opposite intention to review this further and challenge Committee having recent and relevant financial page, but from my perspective the most the processes in place to support the Groups experience, as required by the Code.
All members of important were: management and reporting of risk and internal the Committee are deemed to be independent and Issues considered in relation to the financial controls.
In particular, we will focus during theCommittee has concluded that its membership statements There were four key areas 2015 on ensuring that the Enterprise Risk meets the requirements of the Code.
Meetings ofjudgement: the impact of the decline in Management ERM Framework operated during the year were normally attended by the commodity prices including the potential impact by theGroup has been sufficiently developed interim Executive Chairman, the ChiefFinancial on asset recoverability and impairments: the andembedded.
In support of this principle, Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the impact of the Groups disposal programme: theCommittee will review the Groups risk Head of Group Audit and representatives the recoverability of the Groups assets in Egypt, management processes and the supporting of the external auditor.
including receivables: and the recognition risk management culture to ensure that they PERFORMANCE REVIEW and measurement ofdeferred tax assets are appropriately aligned to clear risk parameters The Audit Committees performance was assessed and uncertain tax positions: and set by Helge Lund, as incoming Chief Executive, as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
and by the Board in support ofthe Groups Enhancements to the Groups control It was concluded that theCommittee operated strategic aims.
These processes then provide environment Management review during effectively.
In response to the findings of the the necessary basis for driving enhanced, theyear identified and reported on a number review, Committee members will meet individually consistent risk-based decision making.
ofenhancements to the Groups external with members of management and the external financial disclosures and financial controls.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP auditor during 2015 to support their ongoing TheCommittee placed heavy focus on Baroness Hogg retired as a member of the understanding of the Groups evolving understanding and challenging the Committee on 1 January 2014, following the controlenvironment.
programme put in place by management to completion of nine years of service with the support these improvements.
Sarahs work for the Committee was always monitoring and challenge of this plan will of the highest order, and the value derived from continue to form a key element of the her comments and challenges in meetings was Committees focus during 2015. very substantial.
I am delighted that Pam Daley BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE KEY AREAS OF FOCUS 57 Set out in the table below is a summary of key matters considered by the Committee during 2014.
Key issues covered by the Committee are reported the following day to the subsequent meeting of the Board, and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
ISSUE KEY CONSIDERATIONS THE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCLUSION REFERENCE In response to the significant decrease The Committee reviewed the processes and mechanisms The Committee supported managements CONDITIONS in globalcommodity prices, the Groups inplace to support the determination ofthe Groups judgements and assumptions regarding the reference conditions for the purpose reference conditions and going concern stress tests, impact of the sharp deterioration in commodity of business planning, investment in light of thedecrease in global commodity prices prices during the second half of 2014 which led decision-making and impairment andchallenged managements judgements and tothe recognition of significant impairment testing werereviewed in depth.
charges in Q4, as set out below.
The Committee review also considered the stress tests further supported managements assessment applied to the Groups assessment of the Groups status as a going concern for of going concern.
IMPAIRMENT The Groups procedures and IFRS The Committee reviewed and challenged assumptions made As part of the Groups Q4 and full-year results INDICATORS require the performing of a continual by management in their assessment of impairment indicators process, the Group recognised non-cash post-tax review ofpotential impairment triggers and charges.
They alsosought assurances from Ernst & Young impairment charges totalling$5.9 billion.
and an annual review of previously LLP EY that they concurred with assumptions underpinning The Committee reviewed and concurred with impaired assets.
During2014, particular managements judgement in each case and that all judgements management that the sale of the QCLNG consideration wasgiventoAustralia, had been undertaken inatimely and appropriate manner.
pipeline, announced in December 2014, would Egypt, the North Sea, Tunisia and The Committee reviewed managements determinations result in a post-tax impairment of the Groups the USA.
inrelation to the Groups business forecast in Australia, remaining QCLNG assets of $1.8 billion, including the potential impact of the disposal of the Groups following the categorisation of the pipeline interest in pipeline assets announced in Q4 of 2014. as held for sale.
DEFERRED TAX The Group regularly reviews the The Committee reviewed managements assumptions The Committee continued to support ASSETS AND judgements and assumptions andchallenged the main areas ofjudgement relating to  and assumptions UNCERTAIN associated with the recognition of significant uncertain taxpositions and, with support from inrelation to deferred tax assets and uncertain TAX POSITIONS significant deferredtax assetpositions.
EY, agreedthat, while this remained a matter of judgement, taxpositions as being reasonable.
the view formed by management was reasonable.
Separately, the main areas of judgement TheCommittee will continue to review in relation to key tax positions are The Committee also received updates on changes to work performed during 2015 to further reviewed on a regular basis and theGroups tax provisioning processes and applications enhance and embed the Groups revised adjustments are made to keep provisions tosupport the consistent application of tax policies, tax provisioning processes.
procedures andcalculations across all jurisdictions.
CONTROLS Management undertook a programme The Committee, supported by Group Audit and the The Committee was satisfied with ENHANCEMENT ofenhancements totheGroups external auditor, reviewed the actions taken to enhance enhancements made by management external financial disclosures and theGroups financial controls, together with the key duringtheyear and willcontinue towork financial controls during 2014 to elements ofalonger-term enhancement programme withmanagement during 2015 toensure ensure alignment with best practice.
instigated by the Chief Financial Officer during Q4 2014. thattheappropriate focus and resource TheCommittee alsoreviewed the additional activities is given tothe continuation of thisinitiative.
undertaken during Q4 2014 toprovide enhanced assurance over the2014 year-end financial statements.
RESERVES The Group receives independent The Committee received ongoing briefings onthe Miller & Lents were selected as the Groups AUDIT AND assurance of the Groups estimates of progress of the tender and reviewed both the process independent assurance provider during Q2 2014 VALUATION itsgas and oil reserves and resources followed to compile the shortlist and the agreement and they presented an overview of their services CONTRACT profile of certain assets.
During ofthe preferred assurance provider.
to the Committee in October 2014.
A further late2013, the Reserves Committee deep-dive discussion on the Miller & Lents review approved the continued combination ofthe external evaluation of Lula and Cernambi ofreserves and valuation work in reserves was held by the Committee in asingle contract, and retendering early2015.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Reviewing the processes to assure the integrity Reviewing the resources of the Group Audit The Committee has an annual forward agenda, of the Annual Report and Accounts, in particular: function and considering and approving developed from its terms of reference, with the reserves and resources booking process: the scope of the Group Audit programme: standing items that the Committee considers at the management representation letter Considering the effectiveness of Group Audit: each meeting, in addition to any specific matters tothe external auditor: Considering reports from the external arising, and topical business or financial items the disclosures in relation to internal controls, auditoron their assessment of the onwhich the Committee has chosen to focus.
risk management, principal risks and controlenvironment: The work of the Committee in 2014 principally uncertainties and the work of the Committee: Reviewing the Groups approach to cyber fell into three main areas: that the information presented in the security: and report, when taken as a whole, is fair, Reviewing matters reported to the external ACCOUNTING, TAX AND FINANCIAL REPORTING balanced and understandable and contains whistleblowing hotline and a report from Reviewing the integrity of the quarterly, the information necessary for shareholders theEthical Conduct Compliance Unit ECCU half-year and annual financial statements to assess the Companys performance, encompassing a report on fraud.
andthe attendant significant financial business model and strategy: reporting judgements and disclosures: EXTERNAL AUDITOR the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and Considering the liquidity risk and the basis for Considering and approving the audit approach procedures designed to ensure that the Annual preparing the quarterly, half-year and annual and scope of the audit undertaken byEY as Report and Accounts complies withall relevant financial statements on a going concern basis, external auditor and the fees for thesame: legal and regulatory requirements: and and reviewing the related disclosures in the Agreeing reporting materiality thresholds: the process designed to ensure the external Annual Report and Accounts: Reviewing reports on audit findings: auditors are aware of all relevant audit Considering the incoming provisions of Considering and approving letters of information, as required by Sections 418 theNew Code regarding going concern and representation issued to EY: and and419 of the Act.
viability statements that will apply to the year Considering the independence of EY and ending 31December 2015 and reviewing the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS theireffectiveness, taking into account: applicability of current processes in light Assessing the effectiveness of the Groups non-audit work undertaken by the of this new requirement: internal control environment and making external auditor: Reviewing updates on accounting matters, recommendations to the Board: feedback from a survey targeted at including consideration of relevant accounting Considering reports from Group Audit: variousstakeholders: and standards and underlying assumptions: Considering the level of alignment between the Committees own assessment.
theCompanys key risks and internal auditprogramme: BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED 58 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK BGGroup operates within a Governance Framework that encompasses three keyareas: 1 organisation and structure: 2 risk management and internal control: and 3 independent assurance.
THE ORGANISATION AND STRUCTURE OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL BOARD CONTROL WITHIN BG GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Ensures an effective principal risk management process: Reviews Internal Control Framework ICF integrity and suggests remediation plans: and Reviews recommendations from the Reserves and Disclosure Committees.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE EMC RISK AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE RESERVES COMMITTEE Oversees Enterprise Risk Management Reviews reports from Group Audit, Manages reserves policy and process: ERM Framework which includes Legal, Ethical Conduct Compliance Unit, Reviews and challenges the Groups reserves the Business Risk Management Speak Up and the Company Secretary.
and resources estimates: and Process BRMP and the Internal Control Makes recommendations to the Framework ICF : Audit Committee.
Identies and reviews the Groups principal risks and uncertainties: Makes recommendations to the EMC and the Board: and The Disclosure Committee is also a sub-Committee of the EMC and reports on an annual basis to the Audit Committee regarding internal controls in relation to the Groups disclosure obligations.
See page 49 for more details.
Further detail on the Groups organisation and structure is set out on page48.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee are availableto download from www.
com governance ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Groups approach to risk management and Additional details on the Groups approach to also focus on the scope and frequency of risk internal control is articulated and managed risk management are set out onpages 34 to 41. management and internal control reporting through the Enterprise Risk Management ERM and associated assurance in accordance with In defining the Groups risk appetite, the Board Framework for which the Board has ultimate the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal and management determine whichof the risks responsibility.
The effective operation of the ERM Control and Related Financial andBusiness and uncertainties the Group iswilling to accept Framework is considered tobe fundamental Reporting September 2014, withtheobjective of and manage.
During 2014, theGroups ERM to the achievement of theGroups strategic full compliance with theNewCode andrelated Framework has continued to mature and objectives.
During 2014, the Board reviewed guidance for the2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
amore robust process was defined to identify with management the process for identifying and approve the principal risks and uncertainties.
BG Groups ability to assess, influence and principal risks and uncertainties and evaluating The Groups quarterly risk process has been control the risk management and internal the way in which these are controlled further integrated with the Groups business control environment within its joint ventures and mitigated, monitored and managed.
planning, forecasting and performance varies and, in some cases, may be limited, as management processes, resulting in more disclosed in the Principal risks and uncertainties Enterprise Risk Management Framework regular reviews of key risks and designof, on page 36.
The Group endeavours to influence and operation of assurance over, preventative joint ventures to adopt improved standards, and containment controls mitigations.
controls and procedures where BG Group feelscurrent practices do not adequately The Board, upon the advice of the Audit 5 address significant risks, or result in TAKE & TRACK DEFINE Committee, has reviewed the Groups system CORRECTIVE sub-optimal performance.
RISK ACTIONS ofrisk management and internal control APPETITE forthe period 1 January 2014 to the date of this BG Groups system of risk management and report, and is satisfied that they are effective internal control provides reasonable, rather 4 1 and that the Group complies in this respect than absolute, assurance against material loss RISK with Internal Control: Guidance to Directors or misstatement and isdesigned to manage, MONITOR CULTURE formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
rather than eliminate, therisk of fraud or RISKS AND IDENTIFY ASSURE failure to achieve business objectives.
Projections & ASSESS CONTROLS Continued focus in 2015 will be given by of any evaluation of effectiveness to future RISKS theAudit Committee to the Groups controls periods are subject tothe risk that the system enhancement programme, which is designed to of internal controlmay become inadequate 3 2 reinforce accountabilities and enhance assurance DESIGN because ofchangesin conditions, or that & EXECUTE coverage over key financial controls.
During CONTROLS thedegree ofcompliance with the policies early 2015, the Board and Audit Committee will orprocedures maydeteriorate.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED 59 INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE It is proposed that EY be re-appointed as The Internal Control Framework ICF is Independent assurance augments the Groups auditor of the Company at the next AGM a key element of the Groups overall ERM governance.
There are three key pillars of inMay 2015 and, if so re-appointed, that they Framework, and sets the framework within independent assurance: Group audit, external will hold office until the conclusion of the next which the Group operates.
Compliance with audit, and reserves and resources assurance.
general meeting of the Company at which Policies and Standards is mandatory to help accounts are laid.
Further details are set out GROUP AUDIT ensure that BGGroup achieves business inthe Notice of Annual General Meeting Group Audit provides assurance to the Board, objectives in a safe manner and in accordance on page 146.
Audit Committee, EMC and management, with its Business Principles.
The Executive andinparticular: The Group will continue the practice of the Management Committee EMC oversees rotation of the audit engagement partner at compliance with the Business Principles by Provides objective, independent assurance least every five years, and all other partners ensuring the ICF contains the appropriate andadvice to Group management and and senior management will be required Policies and Standards.
The Boards conclusion theAudit Committee on the effective torotate at least every seven years.
on the effectiveness of the Groups system andefficient operation of the governance of risk management and internal control is andinternal control processes in place The Independent auditors report reached following completion of a robust toidentify and manage business risks: and to shareholders is set out on page 84. tiered assurance process which culminates As part of BG Groups integrated approach NON-AUDIT FEES in the EMC review and approval of the Letters torisk, assurance and audit, acts as a third The Committee believes that non-audit work of Assurance LoAs.
Members of the Group lineof defence through its coordinating may only be undertaken by the external auditor Leadership Team GLT and theCompany roleinmonitoring the effectiveness of both inlimited circumstances.
The Committee Secretary have each signed an LoA addressed management controls and other assurance monitors the target that non-audit fees do not to the interim Executive Chairman providing activities in addressing business risk.
exceed 15% of the total audit fee in any year.
assurance in respect of the application of the Business Principles, Internal Controls, Financial Focus is given to ensuring that engagement Group Audit gives particular regard to the Controls Assurance Programme, Business Risk fornon-audit services does not: i create a ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of the ICF Management Process BRMP and the Fraud conflict of interest: ii place the auditor in ingoverning BG Groups financial controls Risk Standard in their areas of the business.
aposition to audit their own work: iii result andreporting processes.
Each LoA is supported by the results of the inthe auditor acting as a manager or employee: year-end disclosure process, which requires EXTERNAL AUDITOR or iv put the auditor in the role of advocate management-level reporting to the GLT and The Audit Committee manages the relationship forBG Group.
Company Secretary assessing compliance with the Groups external auditor, on behalf The Committee regularly reviews the nature with the Standards applicable to their areas of the Board.
The Company last undertook ofnon-audit work performed by the auditor of responsibilities, and the reporting of any atender for external audit services during and the volume of that work.
An analysis potential material weaknesses or significant 2012and, asa result of this tender, EY were offees paid in respect of audit and non-audit deficiencies in the Groups internal appointed byshareholders as the Groups services provided by the external auditor for control environment.
external auditor in 2013 and were re-appointed the past two years isdisclosed on page 102. in2014.
The Audit Committee receives regular Having undertaken areview of the non-audit updatesonthe Groups Speak Up Policy During the year, the Committee carried out its services provided during the year, the through which itaims to create the climate annual assessment of the auditor and reported Committee is satisfied thatthese services and opportunity for employees and third to the Board on its findings.
To support this were provided efficiently bythe external parties to voice genuinely held concerns about assessment, Committee members and relevant auditor as a result of their existing knowledge behaviour ordecisions that they perceive to be members of management were invited to of the business and didnotprejudice their contrary tothe BG Group Business Principles complete a questionnaire on their views about independence orobjectivity.
orthemandatory elements of the system the auditors performance during the year.
The RESERVES AND RESOURCES ASSURANCE ofinternalcontrol.
The Committee also receives feedback received was reviewed by management The Group obtains independent assurance regular updates on any incidents of fraud and reported to the Committee.
In addition, oftheGroups estimates of its gas and oil andaccompanying investigations as well as the Committee reviewed the Financial Reporting reserves and resources, including the resources maintaining oversight of the Groups compliance Councils Audit Quality Review Team report profile ofcertain assets.
This assurance with the Fraud Risk Management Standard.
After taking provides a key benchmark by whichthe these reports into consideration, together with The Audit Committee also considers regular Reserves Committee and the AuditCommittee the auditors report on their approach to audit reports from Group Audit, the HSSE Asset can then assess thevalidity ofthe judgements quality and transparency, the Committee Integrity Audit, ECCU, Group Risk and other made in the calculation ofthe Groups reserves concluded that the auditor demonstrated assurance providers across BGGroup, and the and resources.
During 2014, the Reserves appropriate qualifications and expertise and results ofthe Audit Committee discussions Committee agreed that itwas appropriate remained independent ofBGGroup, and that are formally reportedto the Board.
tocontinue to combine reserves audit and the audit process waseffective.
valuation work in a single contract and During 2014, work continued on the Integrated The Committee also reviewed the auditors conducted a detailed tender ofthat work Assurance Framework IAF which aligns engagement letter and determined the thatwas overseen by the Audit Committee.
planned or completed assurance and audit remuneration of the auditor in accordance Asa result of that tender process, Miller & activities to key risks and key controls reported with the authority given to it by shareholders.
Lents were selected to provide independent through the BRMP.
The Committee considered the auditors assurance of the Groups reservesand resources.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
