46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANDREW GOULD, 68 HELGE LUND, 52 SIMON LOWTH, 53 SIR JOHN HOOD KNZM, 63 CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Appointed in 2011: Elected Chairman Appointed in February 2015 Appointed in 2013 Appointed in 2007: Elected Senior in 2012: interim Executive Chairman Independent Director in 2014 from April 2014 to February 2015 C F C F A N R S C F N Helge has a proven track record as Simon provides significant expertise John provides the Board and four Andrew brings to the Board his aleading chief executive in the oil to the Group in finance, capital Committees with expertise from his exceptional knowledge of the and gas industry.
allocation, value-based planning, knowledge anddeep experience of upstream oil and gas industry and portfolio management and strategy, international business, and with For more than 10 years before joining a wealth of experience gained on gained through roles in a number of analytical rigour arising from his BG Group, Helge was the chief executive the boards of a number of listed listed companies.
Simon has relevant leadership roles in higher education officer of Statoil, a multi-billion dollar global companies.
experience of the gas and power and research.
BG Groups sustainability international oil and gas company, industry and a background in activities also benefit from Johns A chartered accountant, Andrew was operating in 36 countries.
philanthropic work withinternational chairman and chief executive officer time, he led the transformation of non-governmental organisations.
of Schlumberger, a leading oil and gas thebusiness into one of the worlds Before joining BG Group, Simon was services company, from 2003 to 2011, leading oil and gas companies, that is chief financial officer and executive John was formerly vice chancellor during which time he successfully led now widely admired for its technical director of AstraZeneca for six years, of the universities of Oxford and a major restructuring of the group, expertise, solid financial performance during which time he notably Auckland.
He has heldadvisory roles retiring aschiefexecutive in 2011 andstrong, values-based culture.
helped improve productivity, cash for the New Zealand and British and chairman inApril 2012.
Until management and capital allocation governments and has served as Prior to Statoil, Helge was chief May 2012, Andrew wassenior during complex times.
a directorof New Zealand-based executive officer of Aker Kvaerner, independent director of RioTinto plc.
enterprises, including ABS Bank, anindustrial conglomerate with Prior to that, Simon was chief Fonterra Cooperative Group Other appointments: operations in oil and gas and financial officer and corporate and Tonkin & Taylor.
King Abdullah University of Science shipbuilding.
He also served previously strategydirector at Scottish Power, andTechnology in the roles of deputy chief executive following a number of roles with Other appointments: L1 Energy Fund officer and chief financial officer McKinsey & Company, ultimately as Environmental Defense Fund Royal Academy of Engineering atthepharmaceutical division of director of the UK Industrial Practice UK Board Development advisory board Hafslund Nycomed, an industrial focusing on business strategy, Rhodes Trustees Saudi Aramco conglomerate.
mergers and acquisitions, capital Robertson Foundation management and operational Study Group Pty Limited Other appointments: performance improvement.
URENCO Ltd None WPP plc Other appointments: Standard Chartered plc VIVIENNE COX, 55 PAM DALEY, 62 MARTIN FERGUSON, 61 CAIO KOCH-WESER, 70 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed in 2012 Appointed in January 2014 Appointed in January 2014 Appointed in 2010 N R S A S A N S Vivienne has wide-ranging experience Pams experience from her Martin brings with him international Caios global financial, diplomatic and as an executive in the energy sector, distinguished career in North America expertise, particularly in the resources political experience is of significant and also works as a non-executive and internationally has brought new and energy sector.
Martins insight value to the Board and he brings an director with companies from a insight and perspective to the Board.
and experience in the development in-depth knowledge of South America, varietyof industries, as well as with a Her renowned expertise in finance of Australias natural gas industry and Brazil inparticular.
and law especially mergers, and the growing LNG market in Asia Caio was German deputy minister of She provides valuable perspective acquisitions, joint ventures and will prove invaluable to the Board.
finance from 1999 to 2005, responsible toBoard debates, and contributes business development arrangements Martin is a former Australian federal for international finance G7 Deputy, constructively to the Groups strategic is a valuable addition to BG Group as minister for resources and energy, European economic and financial and sustainability discussions.
Vivienne it continues to pursue its strategy of with acareer in politics spanning affairs, as well as capital markets, has participated in a number of more active portfolio management, 18years.
Priorto his election to the banking and insurance.
He was also eventsorganised by the BG Group capital discipline and monetisation of Australian Houseof Representatives chairman of the supervisory board Womens Network.
the Groups assets at different stages in 1996, Martinwas president of the of the German Federal Financial of their life cycles.
Vivienne worked for BP from 1981 Australian Council of Trade Unions.
to2009, latterly as executive vice Pam joined General Electric Company From 1973 to 1999, Caio was with Other appointments: president of gas, power and renewables.
GE in 1989 as tax counsel and held the World Bank where he worked Australian Petroleum Production She was also chief executive of BP a variety of senior legal and business on Latin America, China, the Middle andExploration Association Alternative Energy.
roles, latterly as senior vice president East and Africa.
Cooperative Research Centre for for corporate business development.
Other appointments: Greenhouse Gas Technologies Other appointments: Pam retired from GE on 1 January 2014.
Ministerial board of the Department Seven Group Holdings Centre for European Reform She was formerly a tax partner of for International Development Deutsche Bank Group the international law firm, Morgan, Pearson plc European Climate Foundation Lewis & Bockius.
Royal Academy of Engineering The Royal Institute of International Development advisory board Other appointments: Affairs Chatham House Vallourec SA BlackRock, Inc.
The Juilliard School University of Pennsylvania Law School Sir John Hood chaired the Nominations Committee from April 2014 to February 2015.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | BOARD OF DIRECTORS 47 LIM HAW-KUANG, 61 SIR DAVID MANNING GCMG KCVO, 65 MARK SELIGMAN, 59 PATRICK THOMAS, 57 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed in 2013 Appointed in 2008 Appointed in 2009 Appointed in 2010 A N S A R A R Haw-Kuang has a wealth of expertise David provides the Board with Mark provides the Board and Patrick brings global executive inthe south east Asian energy markets, insight into international relations, Audit Committee with relevant experience, including more than as well asin-depth knowledge of the gained through his distinguished financial expertise, gained through 35 years in the chemical industry, Chinese oil and gas sector.
career as a senior diplomat, and plays a high-profile career in the providing a widerperspective and an important role as Chairman of UK investment banking sector.
Haw-Kuang is the former executive the Sustainability Committee.
Patrick has extensive experience chairman of Shell China.
He joined His work with the Regional Growth of working in Asia Pacific.
Royal Dutch Shell in Malaysia in 1978 David was a member of the Foreign Fund and as an alternate member and became executive chairman in andCommonwealth Office for Prior to joining the Bayer Group, of theTakeover Panel provides 2005.
Prior roles with Shell included 35years, serving in Warsaw, Patrick spent seven years with the Board with invaluable insight business development manager for New Delhi, Paris, Moscow, Tel Aviv the Huntsman Corporation, a US into the wider corporate the former Soviet Union and Sakhalin: and Brussels.
He retired from the chemicals company, latterly as governance landscape.
chairman and managing director Diplomatic Service in 2008 after corporate executive vice president Malaysia: president, oil products Asia fouryears as British ambassador Mark held senior roles at Barclays of Huntsman Matlin Patterson.
Pacific and Middle East: and Shell tothe USA.
fide Zoete Wedd and SG Warburg Patrick held a number of positions International vice president of & Co, and is a former chairman of with ICI Pharmaceuticals and Other appointments: corporate strategy andplanning.
UK Investment Banking at Credit Agrochemicals, including regional Council of Lloyds of London Suisse and a former member director for Europe, Africa and the In 2011, he was honoured with Gatehouse Advisory Partners of the banks Global Investment Middle East, and was also global chief the Great Wall Friendship Award, Lockheed Martin UK Holdings Ltd Banking Executive Board.
recognising his contribution to London School of Economics the city of Beijing.
IDEASadvisory board Other appointments: Other appointments: The Royal Institute of International G4S plc Bayer MaterialScience AG Other appointments: Affairs Chatham House Kingfisher plc European Institutefor Industrial Central Bank of Malaysia Regional Growth Fund Leadership advisory board Bank Negara Malaysia advisory panel Oxford University Business China Council for International The Takeover Panel EconomicsProgramme Board Cooperation on Environment PlasticsEurope andDevelopment ENN Energy Ranhill Energy & Resources Bhd.
COMPANY SECRETARY BARONESS HOGG, 68 STEVE ALLEN, 43 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed in 2005 Steve is an experiencedlawyer S withanestablished knowledge ofBGGroup and its corporate Sarahs extensive career in functions.
AsCompany Secretary, government and with prominent Steve is responsible for advising the regulatory bodies and major UK Board, through the Chairman, on companies brings a highly valued contribution to the Board and its allgovernance matters.
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is Sarah is a former head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit and responsible for ensuring that Board second permanent secretary from procedures are complied with.
Until 2010, she was responsible to the Board, through the chairman of 3i Group and has Chairman, for advising and keeping been a non-executive director of the Board apprised of all legislative, several other FTSE 100 companies.
regulatory and governance matters CHRIS FINLAYSON Sarah was Senior Independent and developments.
Chris resigned as Chief Executive Director ofBG Group from 2009 on 27 April 2014. to 2013.
Prior to joining the Group in 2005, Steve was a corporate lawyer for Other appointments: PETER BACKHOUSE Herbert Smith.
He was appointed HM Treasury Peter retired as a Non-Executive John Lewis Partnership Director on 15 May 2014.
Company Secretary in 2011, having The Takeover Panel previously been Chief Counsel, The Times Newspaper Corporate, leading the team providing COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY legalsupport for corporate functions.
A Audit N Nominations C Chairmans R Remuneration F Finance S Sustainability Committee Chairman BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
