44 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Audit Committee In this section we provide information on the main areas of focus of the Audit Committee over the year.
The members of the Committee and their experience can be found on pages 36 and 37.
The Committee plays a significant role in ensuring that the Companys financial statements and those of other companies in the Group are properly prepared and that the systems of controls that are in place are effective and appropriate.
We provide more detail on these matters on the next pages but the key areas of focus and the decisions taken are summarised in the table below.
For the first time, last year, we were required specifically to consider whether our Company accounts were, taken as a whole, fair, balanced and understandable, a requirement introduced by amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2012.
The Code was further amended in September 2014 for future reporting periods and many of the new provisions are already reflected in the Companys practices.
John Hylands Chair, Audit Committee Key areas of focus in 2014 Decisions taken The Committee considered the content of the Interim Accounts and the Report and Accounts of the Review of Annual Company, including whether they were fair, balanced and understandable, before recommending their approval to the Board.
In the course of their consideration the critical accounting policies and any and Interim changes to accounting policies were debated and agreed.
The Committee also reviewed the Report and Accounts Accounts of Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments.
The Committee considered and approved the planned activities of the Internal Audit and Compliance Internal Audit, functions along with the scope of the External Audit for the year.
The Committee agreed to continue External Audit and with the use of an external firm to provide additional specialist resource to supplement the Internal Audit and Compliance teams.
Compliance Plans The Committee received reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance functions regularly during the course of the year.
These reports covered progress in the delivery of the internal audit and compliance Effectiveness of monitoring plans, actions arising from audits, and reviews of compliance with Client Asset regulatory Risk Management obligations.
These reports, together with the annual review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, allowed the Committee to arrive at the conclusions on page 45.
In preparation and Internal for the outsourcing of fund accounting to BNY Mellon, the Committee considered changes to the Control Systems accounting process and approved the approach which had been proposed by management after satisfying itself that the changes were appropriate.
The Committee considered and recommended to the Board a change in the methodology of valuing Alliance Trust Investments, details of which can be found on page 19.
The impact of new accounting Significant standards on the presentation of the Company accounts was considered and the approach agreed.
The accounting Committee agreed the accounting treatment of areas of expenditure within Alliance Trust Savings, more details of which can be found on page 21.
The amortised cost valuation basis for a private placement of matters 100m of fixed rate notes was considered and approved.
The Committee considered the independence and performance of the External Auditor before arriving at External Auditor the conclusions on page 46.
The Committee considered the results of a benchmarking exercise that had been carried out to assess the IT and project strength of IT Governance and IT management.
A number of actions were identified to improve IT strategy and controls which have been addressed and a regular review of systems is now in place.
The Committee controls also considered the implementation of the outsourcing of the investment back office function.
The Committee considered a change in strategy for Internal Audit to move from purely an assurance role Internal Audit to one which also included an advisory role.
The Committee concluded that they wished to preserve the focus on assurance: however the advisory role could be adopted in specific cases where it could provide strategy more timely constructive challenge to business initiatives.
The Committee considered early adoption of the amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Corporate published in September 2014.
The Company already meets many of the new Codes requirements: however it was agreed that affirming compliance should be deferred to next year by which time we Governance Code intend to fully comply with the revised Code.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 45 which considers the effectiveness of internal control in managing Internal controls the significant risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Group has a clear governance structure for the control and The Audit Committee regularly receives reports from the monitoring of its business, including defined lines of responsibility Groups Compliance and Internal Audit functions and from and delegation of authority.
The Group has a comprehensive the External Auditor which include details of all significant system for reviewing, monitoring and reporting to the Board, internal control issues relating to the Group.
The Audit including a detailed financial review against forecast.
Committee provides independent oversight of Internal Audit The Board is responsible for determining its appetite for and Compliance to ensure that they are providing the level of the level of risk it is willing to take in achieving its strategic scrutiny expected by the Audit Committee and the Board.
In objectives and for the Groups risk management and internal arriving at their conclusions, and to allow reports to be made to control systems.
The Audit and the Board Risk Committees assist them without management presence, the Audit Committee has the Board in fulfilling this responsibility through regular review private sessions with each of the Head of Internal Audit, Director of their effectiveness, including all material financial, operational of Compliance and the External Auditor during the year.
The Audit Committee performed an assessment for the purpose The Board has an established ongoing process for the of this annual report, which considered all significant aspects of identification, evaluation and management of the significant risk management and internal control arising during the period risks faced by the Group.
The Board Risk Committee regularly of the report, including the work of the Risk, Compliance and reviews this process, which is in accordance with the Guidance Internal Audit functions.
The Audit Committee then reported its on Risk Management, Internal control and Related Financial and findings to the Board.
Business Reporting issued in September 2014.
As a result of the annual review and the ongoing processes The Groups system of internal control is designed to facilitate for review, monitoring and reporting of the Groups internal effective and efficient operations and to ensure the assets of the controls, the Board did not identify any significant weaknesses Group and its customers are safeguarded, proper accounting or failings and remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the records are maintained, and the financial information used Groups risk management and internal control systems.
within the business and for reporting to stakeholders is reliable.
Any system of risk management and internal control is designed Internal controls over to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance financial reporting and not absolute assurance against regulatory breach, material One of the risks to the Group is Financial and Prudential misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee asked management Reporting the risk of adopting inappropriate accounting to undertake a detailed review of the current arrangements for policies and ineffective controls over financial and regulatory client assets as well as the implementation of outsourcing to ensure that appropriate controls were in place for current business reporting.
The Group has a Financial Accounting Policy and and for any change in the regulatory regime for client assets.
an Accounting Manual to enable the Group to comply with all relevant accounting standards to ensure that the financial From 18 July 2014, when the Company became authorised statements provide a true and fair view.
as a manager under the AIFMD, it appointed a Depositary, National Westminster Bank plc.
The Depositary is responsible This risk and the mitigating controls are assessed regularly by for the safekeeping of all custodial assets of the Company, management.
Controls over the preparation of the consolidated ensuring its cash flows are properly monitored, for verifying accounts include but are not limited to: and maintaining a record of all other assets of the Company A formal review and sign-off of the annual accounts by and for the collection of income that arises from the Companys management including verification of any statements made: assets.
It is the duty of the Depositary to take reasonable care to ensure that the Company is managed in accordance with the Adoption of appropriate accounting policies by the Board: FUND Sourcebook, the Companys Articles of Association and Review and approval of accounting estimates by the Board.
The Audit Committee also considered whether the Having carried out such procedures as the Depositary considers Annual Report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Depositary, it understandable, and provides the information necessary for is their opinion, based on the information available to them shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business and the explanations provided, that in all material respects model and strategy.
In arriving at their conclusion that the the Company has been managed in accordance with the rules in the FUND sourcebook, the Articles of Association of the Annual Report satisfied this standard the Committee took Company and as required by the AIFMD.
into account the process adopted in the preparation of the document which included: The Board Risk Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management Framework and reviews and challenges the The involvement of Executive Committee members, the results of the Groups Risk and Control Self Assessment process Company Secretary, the Head of Performance and Risk and 46 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 the Head of Investor Relations in regular drafting meetings: the transfer of the business to client money permissions due to unforeseen regulatory change.
The Committee discussed All Executive Committee members provide sign-off on the this issue, assessed the impact of the regulatory changes on draft issued to the Board for approval: the project and the assumptions that had been made before Verification of all factual statements contained within the concluding that a full impairment of the project cost incurred narrative section of the Annual Report, with evidence to date was required.
required from the author: The treatment of a 3.9m investment to date in a new Statements which cannot be verified typically opinions platform for Alliance Trust Savings.
The decision here was to or forward-looking statements specifically brought to the capitalise expenditure immediately but with no depreciation Audit Committees attention: charge being applied until the system was operative, this was in line with our existing accounting policy.
The expenditure Independent internal review by a senior manager not related to software and associated hardware required to involved in the preparation of the Annual Report.
provide improved functionality and efficiencies.
The Audit Committee considered the steps outlined above and the content of the document.
After review the Committee were Independence of Auditor satisfied, taking care to ensure that the narrative parts of the Annual Report were consistent with the numerical disclosures The Committees policy is to allow the audit firm to be in the audited accounts, that the Annual Report satisfied the instructed to undertake non-audit work only where there is no required standard and recommended approval to the Board.
Any assignment must be approved on behalf of the Committee by its Chair.
Such assignments are normally put out to tender.
Last year 35,000 was paid to Significant areas of focus the Auditor, mainly in respect of regulatory returns and work During the year Audit Committee considered a number of on the audit of termination accounts for a number of Alliance significant matters set out below.
Each year the Committee considers the independence of the Auditor.
It has done so this year and The Committee were presented with a detailed paper on confirms the Auditors independence.
the implications of the new accounting standard, IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and the proposed disclosures for inclusion in the financial statements.
This was Effectiveness of Auditor discussed at length and agreed.
The resulting conclusion During the course of the year the audit engagement partner and was that Alliance Trust met the definition to qualify as an other members of the engagement team met with the Audit investment entity with only one subsidiary, Alliance Trust Committee Chair and the Chief Financial Officer, both together Services Limited, continuing to be consolidated in the Group and separately.
These meetings provide an opportunity for matters results.
All other subsidiaries are now all valued at fair value relating to the conduct of the audit, including the performance of through the Group income statement.
the External Auditor, to be raised and addressed at the time.
The valuation methodology used to value the investments Following completion of the external audit of the financial in the subsidiaries and private equity investments can be statements for the period ended 31 December 2013 a found in Note 23.8 on pages 98 and 99.
The Committee formal evaluation of the External Auditors effectiveness reviewed the initial valuation methodology and outputs was undertaken.
The evaluation was facilitated by the Head provided by management, including careful consideration of of Internal Audit and was conducted by way of a survey, the change in methodology recommended for Alliance Trust completed by Audit Committee members and members of Investments.
The Committee challenged the initial valuations management within the businesses and the control functions.
and asked for further analysis on market multiples prior to the The survey assessed the External Auditors performance against final valuations of the subsidiaries being recommended to the the following criteria: independence and objectivity, audit Board for approval.
strategy, communication with management, and how the audit The Committee considered the implementation and progress was finalised.
of the fund accounting and middle office outsourcing to BNY The Audit Committee considered the results of the evaluation Mellon.
They required that an internal audit review of the and concluded that it was satisfied both with the performance project be completed prior to the launch to validate project and with the independence of the External Auditor.
No material governance, operational readiness and mitigation of key issues were identified.
The impairment of 0.9m of capitalised costs associated with the decision by Alliance Trust Savings not to proceed with Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 47 present information, including accounting policies, in a Tender of Audit manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and During 2010 the Board carried out a tender exercise for the role of understandable information: Auditor.
The Committee decided that it would be appropriate to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the change Auditor and recommended the appointment of Deloitte specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users LLP to the Board who in turn recommended their appointment to understand the impact of particular transactions, other to the members at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Deloitte events and conditions on the entitys financial position and LLP were subsequently reappointed at the 2012, 2013 and 2014 financial performance: and AGMs and are proposed for reappointment in 2015.
Deloitte LLP will change the audit partner every five years and the current make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as partner, Calum Thomson, has been in the role for four years.
recommendation to reappoint Deloitte LLP is not automatic.
In The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the course of the year the Chair of the Committee has met with records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the Auditor outwith the formal structure of Committee meetings.
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure The Committee has considered the performance of the Auditor that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act and is satisfied with the rigour that they apply to the audit process 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are and have recommended the reappointment of Deloitte LLP for a reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company further year.
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Committee has decided that it will put the role of Auditor Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also out to tender at least every 10 years in accordance with the UK responsible for preparing a Directors Report and a Strategic Corporate Governance Code and taking into account new rules Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
from the Competition and Markets Authority and the European Commission which will come into force over the next few years.
Going concern Disclosure of information to Auditor The Groups business activities are set out on pages 4 and 5 with the principal risks which could impact on performance The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this set out on pages 28 and 29.
The Groups financial position Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, and cash flows are set out on pages 68 to 72 along with an there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor analysis of its borrowings in Note 15 on page 89.
As regards is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps they ought going concern the Directors have considered both liquidity and to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any solvency risks.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
Liquidity is concerned with our ability to liquidate assets or access new sources of short-term funds in the time needed to meet our liabilities as they fall due.
The majority of the Groups Directors responsibilities statement assets are in listed securities on recognised stock exchanges which are readily realisable even in volatile markets.
At 31 The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial December 2014 we also had 170m of unused committed statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Solvency is concerned with our ability to meet our liabilities statements for each financial period.
By law, the Directors are in full.
This involves managing our capital by maintaining required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance a business model which is capable of delivering over time with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as a continuing economic return to our shareholders whilst adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company absorbing the impact of any risks which crystallise.
As at 31 December 2014 the Groups total net assets were 3.0bn.
Our financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
investment policy restricts gearing to 30% of net assets at any The financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted given time 11% at 31 December 2014. by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 2006 Sensitivities to market, credit, liquidity and gearing risk are set provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references out in Note 23 on pages 93 to 99. in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true The Directors, who have reviewed the budgets, forecasts and and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
sensitivities for the coming year, consider that the Group In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the consistently: going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
