Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 43 Nomination Committee We set out in this section the main areas of focus of the Committee over the year.
The Committees role is to assess the skills and experience of individual directors against the skillset required to ensure that the Board can provide effective direction and oversight of the Companys strategy and operations.
The Committee maintains a succession plan for future planned retirements and leads the search for replacements as and when necessary.
We explain below the action we have taken this year and how the Committee has tackled its role highlighting both the key areas of focus and the decisions taken.
Karin Forseke Chair, Nomination Committee Key areas of focus in 2014 Decisions taken The Committee discussed the need for recruitment of an additional Non-Executive Director as part of Non-Executive long-term succession planning for the Board.
The Committee agreed a specification of the skills and experience that would be required against a pre-agreed matrix of necessary and preferred competencies Director succession and appointed Russell Reynolds to conduct a search for this appointment.
Russell Reynolds has no other planning connection with the Company.
Since 2011 each Director has been subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Committee Re-election of considered each continuing Director for their independence, contribution, commitment and availability of time and having concluded that each Director satisfied each of these criteria recommended their Directors re-election.
The Committee considered a number of candidates for the role of Non-Executive Director against the Non-Executive previously agreed specification.
The Board was satisfied that Gregor Stewart demonstrated the relevant Director skills required.
On taking up the role of a Non-Executive Director Gregor Stewart was also appointed to appointment the Audit Committee, given his financial experience.
Following the appointment of Gregor Stewart to the Board and the Audit Committee the Committee Committee reviewed the membership of the different Board committees.
John Hylands was appointed to the composition Remuneration Committee in March 2015.
