38 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Good corporate governance is not about box-ticking it Purpose of the Board requires every board to consider the processes, controls and The Board sets the long-term objectives of the Company limits within which their own company should operate, taking and approves its business plans and strategic direction.
It is account of its own specific characteristics.
Boards then need responsible for ensuring that a framework of prudent controls to define and work within a framework which is clear and is in place to enable risk to be managed effectively.
It provides understandable to everyone involved in the management of leadership and reviews business performance.
Details of the Board members can be found on pages 36 and 37.
The following pages describe the work of the Board and also of its various committees during 2014, with commentary from The Board delegates certain decisions to committees comprising the Chair of each committee.
Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors or a combination of these and management.
In addition, both the management team and our regulated subsidiaries, Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments The areas of decision-making that the Board has reserved operate within parameters set by the Board.
This ensures that to itself are: the Board retains control over key strategic decisions and has strategy and investment policy control of the risk profile of the business.
These are regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that they remain appropriate, new subsidiary businesses and joint ventures giving the Chief Executive and her management team, who annual budget also act as the Boards of the regulated subsidiaries, the freedom to develop the business and respond quickly to emerging approval of treasury policies, banking counterparties opportunities while not exposing shareholders to excessive risk.
and counterparty exposure limits At each Board meeting, the Board scrutinises KPI reports Group borrowing limits and the maximum amounts covering all aspects of the business, including investment and nature of new bank borrowing facilities and operational performance and customer outcomes.
This major contracts enables the Board to satisfy itself that good progress is being asset classes in which any Group company may invest made against the agreed business plan and allows it to take early corrective action where required.
In addition the Board derivative instruments which any Group company may use receives regular in-depth presentations from investment material changes to gearing and the percentage mix managers and also from the Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance of asset allocation by class and geography Trust Investments management teams.
These presentations give the Board the opportunity to provide both support and major changes in employment and remuneration structures challenge to management across all areas of the business.
political and charitable donations The Non-Executive Directors hold regular private sessions.
any material litigation or civil proceedings Some of these are also attended by the Chief Executive.
The Boards of its subsidiaries are required to seek endorsement from the parent Board for any strategic decisions including: Compliance with UK Corporate business plans and annual budgets Governance Code approval of directors and officers I am pleased to confirm that we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 throughout acquisition or disposal of part of any business the period covered by this report.
A revised Code was issued launch of new or material changes to existing funds in September 2014, applicable to reporting periods beginning or products on or after 1 October 2014.
The Company already reflects many of its provisions in its practices.
We also comply with significant contracts the principles of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance Through the matters reserved to the Board, the powers of issued in February 2013. individual Directors are restricted to the extent necessary to ensure good governance.
Karin Forseke Chair Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 39 Key areas of focus in 2014 Decision taken The Board held a strategy day in September at which it reviewed progress against the 2020 Vision which had been approved in 2013.
The Board identified a number of key actions for management to progress Strategy including accelerating profitability of the subsidiaries, ensuring that potential future business environment changes were considered, and focus on costs and project management.
The Board receives regular investment presentations at which the Directors have the opportunity to challenge the managers on both the performance and risk profile of their portfolios.
This year the Board Investment agreed a restructure of the investment team which allowed the implementation of a single investment performance process and the reduction of the cost of managing the equity portfolio.
The Board continues to consider the operation of its flexible buyback policy.
The Board approved the business plans of the Company and the subsidiary companies.
The Board challenged a number of assumptions made and agreed with management on a number of actions to be Business plans taken in support of the achievement of the agreed targets.
The Board considered the level of dividends to be paid and agreed to follow the policy set out in 2013 of Dividend maintaining a steadily rising dividend and paying out all of the current years earnings.
Regulatory The Board approved the application to the FCA for authorisation as a manager under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, receiving approval in July 2014. matters The Board monitored the debate on Scottish independence closely and agreed to put in place plans to Scottish mitigate the impact of a vote in favour of independence.
This included the setting up of new English subsidiaries and identifying the business framework that would be required to allow the business to operate independence under both Scottish and English jurisdictions.
The Board approved the replacement of banking facilities as they fell due for renewal and a 15 year 100m Gearing unsecured fixed-rate loan note issue to replace other approved borrowings.
The Board carried out a detailed review of executive succession plans.
The Board approved the approach taken by management to assess the performance and potential of individuals and the development of a Executive bespoke leadership development programme.
This programme, which will be run in conjunction with succession Strathclyde University, will focus on collaborative learning and target potential future leaders within the Company.
The Board supported the proposed surrender of the banking licence of Alliance Trust Savings to simplify that business and move it to the client money regime adopted by most of its competitors.
Unforeseen changes to the regulatory framework for pension scheme administrators caused a reconsideration of that change and Banking licence the Board agreed that the banking licence would be retained until the impact of these changes had been fully assessed and implemented.
The position will be reviewed in 2015.
The Board approved the launch by Alliance Trust Investments of two new funds, the Alliance Trust Sustainable Future Cautious Managed Fund and the Alliance Trust Sustainable Future Defensive Managed Fund changes Fund.
Together with three existing funds, this created the first risk-profiled range of Sustainable and Responsible Investment funds in the UK.
40 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate structure We have a number of board and management committees to ensure good governance and management.
The terms of reference of the four committees reporting to the Board can be found at http: investor.
co. uk ati investorrelations board.
The chart below shows the main committees and reporting lines within the Group.
Board of Directors Board Committees Board Risk Nomination Remuneration Audit Internal Audit Chief Executive Human Equities Finance Risk Resources Fixed Income Legal Compliance Facilities Private Equity Company Information Secretarial Technology Subsidiaries Investor Project Relations Management Mineral rights and Property Operations Key Management Committees Asset Allocation Executive Authorisation Risk Management Portfolio Oversight Subsidiary Boards Alliance Trust Investments Alliance Trust Savings Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 41 common themes and areas of divergence.
Possible areas for Board Performance Evaluation improvement were also discussed.
Boards should regularly review their own performance as part In the third stage, the results of the questionnaire and interviews of a programme of continuous improvement.
In addition to were combined in a paper which was discussed by the Board at regular discussions in the course of board meetings, the Board its February 2015 meeting.
undertakes a formal review of its own performance each year and, in addition, the four board committees undertake their The conclusion of the exercise was that the Board was operating own review, the results of which are reported to the Board.
The effectively, with: Board has used external facilitation on three previous occasions, a clear understanding of the strategy, including the most recently in 2012 when Independent Audit, who have no opportunities and risks involved other connection with the Company, were used.
In 2013 and 2014 the exercise was facilitated internally.
In 2015 we intend to visibility of all parts of the business undertake an  review, the results of which will clarity on the roles and responsibilities of the various parts of be reported in our 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, in line with the governance framework the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
broad satisfaction with the level and quality of information, The 2014 board performance evaluation involved a threewith areas noted for improvement stage process.
In the first stage, each of the directors and members of the Executive Committee were asked to complete a more generally, an emphasis on constructive debate and a questionnaire intended to draw out issues or concerns relating willingness to look for areas of improvement in the working to five themes: of the Board Strategy focusing on understanding of the progress against A number of specific actions were agreed, including: the Vision 2020 Strategy and the risks and opportunities facing changes to the format and structure of investment the business performance reporting Governance whether the governance structure is effective streamlining of the process for review of complex policy in giving the Board visibility of each of the business areas documents before approval by the Board and ensuring that the right matters are referred to the Board for decision changes to the format of management reporting Information and decision-making whether the content increased use of video-conferencing for management and format of management information, papers and presentations attendees, to improve efficiency and sustainability are of the right quality and support decision-making a process for involvement of non-committee members in Relationships with committees whether the interaction committee discussions where their experience is relevant between the Board and the four board committees is effective a review of meeting locations and increasing opportunities Board composition whether the Board has the right skills to meet employees outside formal board meetings, in each for both current and future needs, and maintains an appropriate case to improve Board visibility across the organisation relationship with management Separately, each of the board committees Audit, Board Risk, Directors were also asked to highlight any other topics for Nomination and Remuneration undertook its own performance consideration.
evaluation, with members of the committees completing In the second stage, the Chair met each of the directors and questionnaires focusing on whether each committee had members of the Executive Committee in structured interviews, performed in accordance with its terms of reference during the year.
The results of these evaluations were discussed by the facilitated by the Company Secretary, at which their own and others responses to the questionnaire were explored to identify committees concerned and then reported to the Board.
Questionnaires Interviews with Agree themes completed by Board & Chair, supported by for evaluation Executive Committee Company Secretary 2014 Process Agree actions Implement actions Report back to Board with Board
