42 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Board Risk Committee We set out on pages 27 to 30 how the business manages the key risks that impact on the Company.
In this section we provide information on the main areas of focus of the Committee over the year.
The Committee plays a significant role in monitoring how effective management is in managing risk in the business and provides a layer of challenge above that provided by the senior managers who are members of the Risk Management Committee.
One of the main purposes of the Committee is to support initiatives intended to embed the Company risk culture within the Group.
The Committee reviews and challenges the appropriateness of the Group Risk Appetite scorecards and managements assessment of the future Risk Outlook impacting the Company.
The table below summarises how the Committee has tackled this in the year highlighting key areas of focus.
Susan Noble Chair, Board Risk Committee Key areas of focus in 2014 Decisions taken The Committee recommended changing the approach in respect of some of Alliance Trust Savings measures to score the risks by relative, rather than absolute, values.
This change was due to increased Risk appetite business volumes and was not intended to lead to a lessening of controls or appropriate risk monitoring.
The Committee supported the ongoing development and refinement of risk monitoring.
Risk monitoring The Committee has continued to refine and extend the level of risk reporting that it receives.
Scores attributed to identified risks, which were regarded by the Committee as too high, were challenged and Risk reporting management tasked with mitigating the impact of the risks.
The Committee recognised that how the investment managers operate their portfolio is a key risk and annually review the Groups Investment Risk Process.
In addition at each meeting a report is made by the Investment risk Head of Performance and Investment Risk on the activities of the investment managers and the level of risk that they are adopting in the management of their portfolios.
The Committee considered and recommended to the Board a number of submissions that were provided to the regulators.
These included an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process which involves analysing the risks to the business and the level of capital required to reflect those risks, Regulatory Recovery and Resolution Plan which involves approving a plan to outline how the business will be managed under extreme stress scenarios and an Individual Liquidity Systems Assessment which compliance involves approving the means by which Alliance Trust Savings maintains adequate levels of liquidity.
The Committee regularly considers new legislation that will impact on the business and the risks associated with additional compliance requirements.
The Committee considered an annual report on the effectiveness of the arrangements that are in place to ensure that the business can continue to operate when faced with a number of challenging business Business issues.
In the course of the year call cascades, an onsite recovery test and a crisis scenario exercise were continuity held all of which demonstrated that there were effective processes and procedures in place to minimise the risk of business interruption.
The Committee has continued to focus on the threat of cyber crime during the year.
This included assessing industry developments on cyber security through technical updates from an external cyber Cyber risk security consultant and reports on IT Security, which provided updates on how cyber risks were being assessed and mitigated across the Group, at three Committee meetings.
This was one of the highest risks identified in 2014 and the Committee monitored developments Scottish throughout the year and had reports at each meeting from the project group, which comprised senior managers from across the business, on the preparations that were being made should there be a positive independence vote for Scottish independence.
The Committee has continued to monitor the implications following the referendum outcome of the referendum.
