Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 61 Other governance matters Directors and Officers indemnification Statement The Company provides insurance maximum payable 22m in aggregate for legal action brought against its Directors as of Investment a consequence of their position.
In addition separate deeds of indemnity have been agreed with each Director indemnifying Objective them as permitted by company law.
The indemnity and insurance does not extend to cover claims brought by the Company itself and Policy which are upheld by the Courts, nor to criminal fines or penalties.
Access to advice Alliance Trust is a self-managed investment All Directors have access to independent professional advice if necessary.
company with investment trust status.
Our objective is to be a core investment for investors seeking increasing value over the Relationship with shareholders long term.
We have no fixed asset allocation All Directors normally attend the AGM where they have the benchmark and we invest in a wide range of opportunity to meet shareholders.
Meetings also take place asset classes throughout the world to achieve throughout the year with major and institutional shareholders, such meetings normally being attended by the Chair or Chief Executive.
Our focus is to generate a real All Directors receive reports from our public relations advisers and return for shareholders over the medium to our corporate broker as an additional way for them to capture the long term by a combination of capital growth views of our major shareholders on a non-attributable basis.
In addition to these meetings and reports, the Company hosted two investor forums during the year where individual shareholders We pursue our objective by: had the opportunity to meet Directors and senior managers.
Almost 500 shareholders, customers of Alliance Trust Savings and Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities across their guests attended these meetings.
the globe in different sectors and industries: Investing internationally in fixed income securities: Investment Trust Status Investing in other asset classes and financial HM Revenue and Customs have confirmed that Alliance Trust has instruments, either directly or through investment investment trust status for all financial periods from 1 January 2012. vehicles: and Investing in subsidiaries and associated businesses which allow us to expand into other related activities.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive We are prepared to invest any proportion of the total corporate capital in any of the above asset classes, The Company has been approved by the Financial Conduct subject only to the restrictions imposed on us by the Authority as a manager under the Directive.
regulatory or fiscal regime within which we operate.
The Company has appointed National Westminster Bank Plc as its However, we would expect equities to comprise at least Depositary under the Directive for the purpose of strengthening 50% of our portfolio.
Changes to the asset allocation will the arrangements for the safe custody of assets.
be dependent upon attractive investment opportunities being available.
Regulatory disclosures, including the Companys Investor Disclosure Document, are provided on the Companys website Where market conditions permit, we will use gearing of at http: investor.
co. uk ati investorrelations AIFMDnot more than 30% of our net assets at any given time.
We can use derivative instruments to hedge, enhance and protect positions, including currency exposures.
Director development Every new director receives an individually tailored induction.
The Board as a whole received updates on corporate governance, risk and business issues during the year and specific training on regulatory matters such as the ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and CASS Client Assets.
62 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Name Designation Appointed Re-election of Directors Karin Forseke Chair 01 03 12 Details of the current Directors can be found on pages 36 Katherine Garrett-Cox Chief Executive Officer 01 05 07 and 37.
Gregor Stewart was appointed during the year and John Hylands Non-Executive Director 22 02 08 his appointment falls to be confirmed by shareholders at the Alastair Kerr Non-Executive Director 01 10 12 Annual General Meeting.
Susan Noble Non-Executive Director 11 07 12 Win Robbins Non-Executive Director 14 02 13 The Board has decided that, in line with the UK Corporate Gregor Stewart Non-Executive Director 01 12 14 Governance Code, all of the Directors will be subject to reAlan Trotter Chief Financial Officer 01 02 10 election every year.
Resigned 19 February 2015 The individual performance of each Director and their ongoing suitability for election or re-election was considered and endorsed by the Nomination Committee.
All are recommended for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Each of our Directors has confirmed that they remain committed to their role and have sufficient time available to meet what is expected of them.
Major shareholders As at 4 March 2015 the Company had received notifications from shareholders holding an interest in more than 3% of the voting rights of the ordinary shares in issue of the Company.
The disclosures, updated to reflect known changes in holdings, are: Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares DC Thomson & Company Limited and John Leng & Company Limited Shares 30,475,000 5.51% Shares 28,051,891 5.07% Elliott International, LP, Liverpool Limited Partnership Contract for difference over shares 38,914,597 7.04% The largest shareholder in the Company is the nominee company for Alliance Trust Savings which holds its shares on behalf of over 22,000 clients.
Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited 134,793,884 24.37% Board and Committee attendances In addition to the scheduled Board and Committee meetings below, the Board and Committees met on a number of other occasions to consider matters arising between the scheduled meetings.
Meetings are structured over two days and take place six times a year.
This allows our Directors to have greater oversight of all parts of the Group.
Meeting attendances Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Risk Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Karin Forseke 6 6 - - - - 2 2 - - Katherine Garrett-Cox 6 6 - - - - - - - - John Hylands 6 6 5 5 - - 2 2 4 4 Alastair Kerr 6 6 - - 4 4 2 2 4 4 Susan Noble 6 6 5 5 4 4 - - 4 4 Win Robbins 6 6 5 5 4 4 - - - - Gregor Stewart 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - Alan Trotter 6 6 - - - - - - - - Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 63 Share capital and waiver of dividends Greenhouse gas GHG emissions The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2014 Our mandatory disclosure of total GHG emissions data for the comprised 553,359,146 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which year ended 31 December 2014 can be found on page 35.
We 1,131,837 have been acquired by the Trustee of an Employee report there on all of the emission sources required under the Benefit Trust the Trustee with funds provided by the Company Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports in connection with its employee share plans.
These sources fall within our consolidated elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any shares.
The Trustee holds a further 353,966 shares deposited by emission sources that are not included in our consolidated recipients of awards under the LTIP.
Each Ordinary share of the financial statements.
Company is entitled to one vote but the Trustee does not vote in We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Company.
Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors In the course of the year the Company acquired and cancelled from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company 6,735,000 shares at a total consideration, before costs and Reporting 2014.
The emissions reported have been verified charges, of 30m.
Please find details of our verification statements on our website at www.
co. uk pdfs There are no preference shares or shares held in treasury.
pdf Agreement in respect of voting rights There are no agreements in respect of voting rights.
Report of Directors and Share buyback authority Responsibility Statement At the last AGM the shareholders renewed the authority for the The Report of the Directors, including the Directors repurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued shares.
This authority responsibility and going concern statements on pages falls to be renewed at the next AGM.
The Company made use 38 to 47 and 61 to 63 of the Annual Report and of this provision during the course of the year as detailed above.
Accounts has been approved by the Board.
The Company will, as part of the authority being sought, declare We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: its intention that any shares bought back under the authority will be cancelled.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair Conflicts of interest view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings The Directors have previously provided details of all interests included in the consolidation taken as a whole: which potentially could cause a conflict of interest to arise.
The unconflicted Directors in each case noted the declarations the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the by the Directors of their other interests and confirmed that development and performance of the business and at that time none of the interests disclosed were reasonably the position of the Company and the undertakings likely to give rise to a conflict.
An annual review of all interests included in the consolidation taken as a whole, was undertaken as part of the year end process and this was together with a description of the principal risks and considered by the Board in February 2015.
Procedures are uncertainties that they face: and in place to allow Directors to request authority should it be the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as required outwith the normal Board meeting schedule.
a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders Annual General Meeting to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In addition to formal business, the Chief Executive will present on business developments and there will be the opportunity for questions to be put to the other Directors.
This year, in addition Karin Forseke Katherine Garrett-Cox to the normal business there will be proposals to confirm the Chair Chief Executive notice period for convening general meetings other than Annual 5 March 2015 5 March 2015 General Meetings and to renew the share buyback authority.
