32 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Investing for Generations In response to investor demand we launched two new funds to Governance our range: the Sustainable Future Cautious Managed Fund, and The Investing for Generations Forum is responsible for the Sustainable Future Defensive Managed Fund.
overseeing and integrating sustainability within the business.
During 2014 we made significant progress in integrating It is chaired by a member of the Executive Committee.
During responsible investment processes across our business.
We 2014 it met 20 times to set objectives and review progress, created a single equity investment team to manage both the key performance data and the implementation of standards.
Alliance Trust equity portfolio and the Sustainable Future Funds.
We enhanced our investment process, that already analysed business fundamentals and relevant ESG factors in assessing the Engaging with stakeholders financial prospects of companies, to provide more focus on the We recognise that listening to our stakeholders and responding sustainability of that investment, further details are on pages 16 to their relevant concerns is important to our long-term success.
We have also continued to pursue an active voting policy.
We seek the views of stakeholders through processes such as In most cases we support management but we will engage investor meetings and roadshows, customer surveys, employee with them and ultimately vote against their recommendations surveys and participation in industry forums.
We also actively where we believe that their proposals are not in shareholders engage with the management of companies that we invest in interests.
In 2014 we voted at 98 company meetings, 94% of on material environmental, social and governance ESG factors.
meetings at which we were eligible to vote.
For 36 of these meetings 34% we voted against, withheld or abstained on one or more resolutions.
These votes related to concerns about Ethical standards matters including: board and committee independence and Alliance Trust is committed to maintaining the highest ethical, effectiveness: non-pre-emptive securities issues: excessive or professional and legal standards.
We have a comprehensive opaque remuneration arrangements: and lack of transparency set of policies which set out our approach to issues such about lobbying activities and fair business policies.
as whistleblowing, anti-bribery and health and safety.
In One of our priorities is to engage with the companies in which we accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK invest and the industry more broadly on responsible investment Stewardship Code, we have published the Alliance Trust issues.
In 2014, our investment team, in collaboration with Stewardship Policy Statement.
This sets out how we discharge others, undertook extensive engagement with clothing retailers our stewardship responsibilities as an integral part of our sourcing from Bangladesh, to promote human rights and more investment philosophy.
Our Stewardship Group, chaired sustainable business models.
We also engaged with the banking by the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for overseeing and pharmaceutical industries on sustainability issues.
At the end the implementation of the Code and reports directly to the of 2014 we conducted a series of roadshows across the UK to Executive Committee and Board.
promote and seek views on responsible investment.
We are a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Responsible investment Investment and one of our investment managers is Chair of the PRIs ESG Integration working group.
We are also members Investors are much more aware of both how the returns they of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
receive are generated and of the long-term sustainability of the Looking ahead, we are working to understand better the business models upon which they rely.
Social impact: Creating a sustainable future Platform Purpose Independence of thought: Challenging the norm Conviction to Innovate: Improving the way we do business Profile Performance Relationship Focused: Building long-term alliances People Championing Clarity: Being clear in our messages
