ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Audit Committee Report The Committee plays an integral role in assisting the Board fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
In performing its duties, the Committee strives to maintain effective working relationships with the Board, the Companys management and the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, reviews all proposed half-yearly and annual results, and advises the Board whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, fairly present the Companys financial position and provide the necessary information to the shareholders of the Company to assess the Group performance, business model, and strategy.
Membership The Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board.
The CEO, COO, Director of Finance, General Counsel and external auditors also participate in Committee meetings by invitation.
As Chair of the Committee, Mr. Jeffrey Rohr has the relevant financial experience being a Certified Public Accountant with over thirty years of senior management and executive experience.
In 2014, Mr. Peter Dolan and Mr. Rich Davis served as the other two independent members of the Committee.
Being the first year since incorporation of the Company, the Committee met four times in 2014, of which the external auditors participated in three of the meetings.
Messrs. Rohr, Davis and Dolan were present at all meetings during the year.
Duties The Committees main responsibilities are to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its annual and half-yearly reports and accounts and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain having regard to matters communicated to it by the auditor.
The roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee additionally include: Review the Companys internal financial controls and the Companys internal control and risk management systems: Advise on the need and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: Make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm: and to report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and Report to the board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The Committee carries out these duties for the Company, major subsidiary undertakings and the Group as a whole, as appropriate.
indb 88 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Audit Committee Report continued Activities during the year The Committees activities for the year ended 31 December 2014, are set out below: Financial reporting Reviewed and approved the appropriate audit plan, before the start of the annual audit cycle: Reviewed and provided comments and recommendations in respect of the financial statements in the half-yearly report for the period ended 30 June 2014, the financial information included in the short form of the prospectus prepared in connection with the Companys initial public offering, covering the three year period ended 31 December 2013, and the financial statements in the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014: Reviewed the Companys approach and methodology for determining the fair value of investments, including review of the fair value reports on the individual investments.
Considered and recommended the involvement of external valuation specialist firm to assist management and the Board in deriving the fair value of the subsidiary undertakings: Considered significant matters, risk areas, and areas of judgement in relation to the Groups financial statements taking into account the areas highlighted by the external auditors in their presentations to the committee, and challenged where necessary.
The Committee is satisfied with the integrity of the financial statements of the Company in all material aspects, including the application of significant accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant transactions, use of judgements and estimates made by management, including those made in deriving the fair value of the subsidiary undertakings, and the quality and completeness of the disclosures in the financial statements of the Company.
Internal controls and risk management systems Reviewed the principal elements of the Companys risk management framework as set out on pages 38 to 42 of this annual report.
The Committee gives consideration and provides guidance on enhancing the internal controls and risk management framework, as needed: Reviewed the established procedures, which provide a reasonable basis for the Board to make proper judgements on an ongoing basis as to the financial position and prospects FPP procedures of the Company following the adopted risk approach: A formal whistleblower policy was established and approved by the Board, which has been communicated to employees.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy has been designed to encourage staff to report suspected wrongdoing as soon as possible, provide staff with guidance on how to raise those concerns, and ensure staff that they should be able to raise genuine concerns without fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken.
Significant areas reported to the Board Valuation of Group subsidiaries At the close of each annual financial period, the Directors formally approve the value of all subsidiary businesses in the Group, which is used to derive the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV.
This Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value is a sum-of-the-parts SOTP valuation of all the subsidiaries that make up the Group.
indb 89 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee discusses with management and the auditors the appropriateness of the adopted methodology and approach in deriving the GSOAV.
Further details of the Group valuation methodology are outlined in note 11 on pages 127 to 131.
Although the fair values of the Groups investments in subsidiaries are not included in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, additional disclosures are provided in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
This is a significant performance metric for the Group and an important part of the annual audit.
Share-based incentives In 2014, the Group adopted the UK Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and made awards under the LTIP upon the Companys admission to the LSE in respect of a total of 4,618,842 Ordinary Shares.
The respective share-based payment charge to the financial statements is determined by reference to the fair value of the award and based on key judgements.
The choice of valuation methodology and the inputs used to calculate the initial fair value and number of shares expected to be issued is one of the key areas of the audit based on the materiality of the awards.
Capitalisation of development cost Given the nature of our business, the Group incurs significant research and development costs.
Due to the early stage of development of most of our subsidiaries, there is a limited history of achieving both technical feasibility and commercial viability that can be used as a base for assessing and determining whether the development costs have met the criteria for capitalisation.
As such, as key judgements are made in determining whether the capitalisation criteria are met and there is therefore a risk of development cost not being appropriately capitalised, which is a significant risk for the financial statements and an important part of the annual audit.
External audit Reviewed and approved the scope of the external audit procedures over the half-yearly report for the period ended 30 June 2014, and the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014: Discussed with management and agreed the terms of the engagement of the external auditors and the auditors remuneration for audit and non-audit services.
In assessing independence, the Audit Committee received the auditors presentation and confirmation that in their professional judgment, KPMG is independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Committee was satisfied that throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of KPMG was not in any way impaired by the non-audit services they provided to the Group during the year, by the amounts of non-audit fees, or by any other factors: Assessed the independence, objectivity and qualifications of KPMG as the external auditor and evaluated the quality and effectiveness of the audit procedures.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed the audit plan and monitored performance against the plan, reviewed the periodic reports of KPMG to the Committee that highlighted hey areas of focus during the audit and the applied audit approach, obtained feedback from the finance department in respect to quality and status of KPMG work in the course of the audit.
The Committee concluded that the audit process during the year was effective: Reviewed and discussed the principal areas of financial reporting risk, as highlighted above, and report to the Board.
indb 90 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Audit Committee Report continued KPMG has been the external auditor of the Group since the first audit of the consolidated financial statements in 2008.
The total fees to KPMG for the year ended 31 December 2014 were $2.
9 million were for non-audit services primarily related to the listing on the LSE in June 2014 see note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee currently intends to recommend to the Board a resolution to shareholders to appoint KPMG LLP as the external audit firm at the AGM to be held on 28 May 2015.
Internal audit Given the size and composition of the Group, taking into account relevant significant matters, risk areas, areas of judgement in relation to the Groups financial statements, and the centralised internal controls system in respect to the Groups financial reporting process, the Board did not consider it necessary to have an internal audit function during the year.
Jeffrey Rohr Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 April 2015 Page 91 of 152 c111026.
