Risk management continued Principal Risks & Uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are the subject of the risk management framework and are regularly tracked through review of the Own Risk & Solvency Assessment.
Principal risks and Attitude appetite Amlins analysis of impact and exposure description Enterprise-level risk: Attitude: Balanced Amlin recognises that a Amlin is exposed to a domino-type event, whereby, The risk management framework developed ensures that potential risk Chief Risk Officer Risks associated with one or balanced approach to underlying risk is important to for example a major natural catastrophe event not only exposures are considered individually and in aggregation responsible for more of a portfolio of principal manage the risk profile for the enterprise as a whole.
affects Amlin's insurance underwriting portfolio but The risk function produces an aggregated group risk profile providing an framework-wide view risks occurring and providing The governance of risk seeks to ensure that profit also impacts stock markets, causing significant market enterprise-wide view of risk exposures for the Group Executive and the Board of risk exposures an aggregated impact on the targets can be achieved without unacceptable levels and currency movements and a material impact to Stress testing of a combination of material risks is conducted to determine organisation as a whole.
of potential loss which could ultimately impact the investments.
The combined effect of these risk events impact on capital solvency of the Group.
could trigger reinsurance counterparty default events Reverse stress testing of the ultimate impact of combinations of material risks and hence a secondary impact on liquidity.
on business model viability and reputation is also conducted The Internal Model produces 100,000 simulated results and combined scenarios which are then measured to ascertain the appropriate level of capital for Amlin.
Strategic risk: Attitude: Positive Amlin has a positive attitude It is critically important to Amlins reputation that Long-term strategies are developed addressing diversification of Chief Executive Risks associated with the to strategic risk as it actively pursues ways of the organisation responds effectively to changes underwriting platforms appropriateness of business developing the business.
The Group also faces in the external environment and seeks to secure Due diligence and risk assessment processes are conducted for acquisitions strategy in the face of the a number of external factors which may impact opportunities for growth through organic expansion Risk event and near-miss reporting processes capture loss circumstances external environment.
demand for or supply of our products.
These risks and acquisition where market conditions allow.
Once and actions to prevent recurrence are analysed and actions agreed to adapt the acquisition targets are secured, project teams need Emerging risks are identified and monitored.
strategic approach to cater for them.
to successfully implement integration programmes.
Underwriting Attitude: Positive Amlin has a positive attitude to Amlin has an extensive portfolio of property and Underlying strategy and diversity of exposure Chief Underwriting catastrophe risk: catastrophe risk, which remains a core product offering marine insurance and reinsurance business that Modelling and pricing takes account of hazards Officer The risk of claims arising from to our reinsurance and commercial clients.
Amlin has has significant exposure to weather and earthquake Maximum line size and programme limits contain potential losses from inherent uncertainties in the invested in people and infrastructure to price, manage exposures as well as non-elemental perils such one risk event occurrence of insurance losses and model catastrophe exposures.
Tolerance limits are as industrial accidents.
Aggregate exposure limits are used to control exposures in any one zone associated with natural or applied to specific loss scenarios, and the Group and its Probable maximum loss limits are used to limit potential single event losses man-made catastrophic events.
subsidiary businesses operate to modelled annual loss Catastrophe exposures have reduced through Modelling of loss scenarios and stochastic modelling measure single and limits.
Appetite for these risks is also influenced by our non-renewal of business and improved annual aggregate loss events so they can be compared against agreed ability to achieve an acceptable balance of exposures reinsurance protection.
The reinsurance programme protects the Group against severe single or multiple catastrophes.
Underwriting Attitude: Positive Amlin has a positive attitude Amlin is exposed to attritional losses caused Underwriting authority limits per contract control single risk losses and peer Chief Underwriting attritional risk: to underwriting risk and accepts that there will be by inadequate pricing and or unexpected claims review is carried out to monitor risk selection Officer The risks of unexpected or claims arising from all areas of its re insurance risk frequency as well as systemic change in the nature Underwriting strategy is agreed to determine the approach to each line of business unbudgeted increase in cost of profile.
The appetite for attritional risk is governed of claims.
As the downward trend in the pricing cycle and this is regularly reviewed small or large insurance claims.
by the amount of business that meets our pricing leads to lower margins, the risk increases, although Group business planning processes include challenge of potential levels of income requirements but also by the capacity determined underwriters are expected to take action to decline and expected loss ratios by our capital base and reinsurance arrangements.
business if pricing is unacceptable.
The technical pricing assessment provides underwriters with a risk-based Amlin aims to achieve a diversified balance of comparative benchmark price exposures across lines of business and territories.
The reinsurance programme limits the cost of single claims Underwriting monitoring and performance review is used to address poorperforming parts of the portfolio Underwriting pricing is expected to cover cost of expected claims.
Underwriting Attitude: Balanced Amlin adopts a balanced approach Due to the short-tail nature of many of its business Amlin operates a consistent, actuarially driven process quarterly to assess that Chief Underwriting reserving risk: to reserving risk, which is an unavoidable consequence lines underwriting outcomes are determined relatively appropriate level of reserves are carried, taking account of the characteristics Officer The risk of unexpected or of underwriting a portfolio of business where claims may quickly after a loss is notified.
and risks of each class of business, to arrive at a best estimate.
The best estimates unbudgeted increase in claims develop after the policy period has elapsed.
Our appetite are subject to challenge and review by management and the Audit Committee emanating from business is governed by a policy which ensures that reserves on behalf of the Amlin Board written where profit has been are carried above the actuarial best estimate of future The reserving risk tolerance requires a minimum probability of carried reserves declared.
Classes of business which have a higher level being in excess of liabilities of at least 65%.
This is tracked as a key metric of uncertainty of potential development will naturally The reinsurance programme responds to large loss developments from prior years carry a higher level of reserve provision.
Amlin does not Consistent claims processes and accurate case reserve setting aims to ensure that discount reserves to take account of the investment adequate provision is established for advised claims.
return generated by premium or reserves held for future claims payments and takes consideration of likely cash flow requirements when investing carried reserves.
Amlin plc 34 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Risk trend Mitigation strategies and key controls for each underlying risk Executive Link to and measure exposure are outlined below responsibility strategic priorities Enterprise-level risk: Attitude: Balanced Amlin recognises that a Amlin is exposed to a domino-type event, whereby, The risk management framework developed ensures that potential risk Chief Risk Officer Risks associated with one or balanced approach to underlying risk is important to for example a major natural catastrophe event not only exposures are considered individually and in aggregation responsible for more of a portfolio of principal manage the risk profile for the enterprise as a whole.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 35 Risk management continued Principal Risks & Uncertainties continued Principal risks and Attitude appetite Amlins analysis of impact and exposure description Market risk investment Attitude: Positive Amlin has a positive attitude Amlin seeks to optimise its investment income whilst Investment policy and strategic asset allocation aims to maximise long-term Chief Finance & market volatility: to market risk, constrained by a desire to limit the focusing on ensuring it maintains sufficient capital to investment returns in relation to an agreed risk budget Operations Officer The risk arising from potential downside risk to the value of carried assets meet solvency requirements and sufficient liquid Tactical asset allocation responds to expectations for short-term market fluctuations in values to within a maximum Value at Risk VaR tolerance.
funds are available to meet liabilities when they fall prospects or volatility of investments.
Premium and reserve investments are limited by due.
Exposure to market risk is therefore limited to A diversified portfolio limits exposure to any one security or asset class the liquidity requirements of meeting claims as the extent that investment strategies are balanced The investment team conducts modelling and monitoring of investment risk they become payable.
against agreed tolerance using an economic scenario generator model.
Market risk Attitude: Balanced Amlin has a balanced attitude to Amlin has an international business with subsidiaries We aim to match assets and liabilities by major currency, which includes Chief Finance & currency fluctuation: currency risk, which is an unavoidable consequence of operating in US dollar and euro currencies as well actively selling underwriting profits earned in non-base currencies as Operations Officer Impact on the value of balance holding balance sheet assets, premiums and liabilities as significant underwriting activity conducted in they crystallise sheet or earnings arising from in currencies other than sterling.
This risk is managed US dollars and Japanese yen.
Foreign currency forwards and options are used to reduce Group balance the movement in value of by hedging balance sheet exposure and by matching sheet foreign exchange volatility arising from non-sterling net assets.
sterling against key nonliabilities to the appropriate currency where possible.
Credit risk reinsurance Attitude: Balanced Amlin has a balanced attitude to Amlin has increased use of reinsurance capacity through The reinsurance security team conduct accreditation selection and rating Chief Finance & counterparty: reinsurance counterparty credit risk, which emanates the purchase of additional retrocession protection for the of all reinsurers Operations Officer The risk of loss if a counterparty from use of reinsurance to increase Amlin's risk capacity catastrophe account.
While most of this coverage is fully There are limits over exposure placed with any one reinsurer fails to perform its obligations and to protect the company against severe catastrophe collateralised, there has been an increase in the level of Reinsurance debt credit control is carried out to limit outstanding balances or fails to perform them in events.
Counterparty exposure is controlled by exposure to certain reinsurers.
Reinsurance protection owed by reinsurers a timely fashion.
maximum exposure limits applicable to each reinsurer, is a key aspect of how we manage underwriting risk Credit risk is reduced through the purchase of collateralised reinsurance.
linked to their ability and willingness to pay claims.
exposures and the use of accredited reinsurers is an important control.
Credit risk intermediary Attitude: Balanced Amlin has a balanced attitude Amlin has exposure to insurance and reinsurance The finance team credit control procedures limit exposure to brokers Chief Finance & counterparty: to intermediary credit risk.
We recognise that brokers as well as treasury intermediaries.
Active broker debt credit control is carried out to limit levels of unpaid Operations Officer The risk of loss if an insurance brokers need to collect both premiums and claims premium held by intermediaries.
or treasury intermediary fails as part of their service, and we set limits according to meet credit obligations in to broker financial strength to control exposure a timely fashion.
Liquidity risk including Attitude: Negative Amlin seeks to avoid any The strength and liquidity of the balance sheet is Stress testing of liquidity needs relative to major catastrophe events Chief Finance & asset liability matching : situation where funds are not available to meet fundamental to our proposition as an insurer of ensures that liquidity requirements are fully understood Operations Officer The risk arising from claims as required because this would have choice, providing us with the ability to respond The investment team maintains sufficient liquidity in the investment insufficient financial resources significant regulatory and reputational impact.
quickly to claims, particularly relevant in the event portfolio to address claims needs so that claims are paid as they fall due.
being available to meet Bank facilities are used to manage cash flow and of a large catastrophic loss such as a hurricane liabilities as they fall due.
ensure that liquidity constraints do not impact or earthquake.
our claims service to policyholders.
Operational risk systems Attitude: Negative Amlin does not wish to Amlin operates a diverse business across a number The implementation of the risk management framework for the identification, Chief Finance & and processes: have any operational failures which may hinder of offices and jurisdictions and is expected to comply evaluation and control of operational risks ensures that operational risks are Operations Officer Risks resulting from inadequate trading or result in financial loss, or any regulatory with legal, regulatory and best-practice standards.
understood and managed or failed internal processes, sanction for inadequate compliance.
It is recognised, The potential exists for a failure of critical business Procedural controls, including workflow management, help maintains discipline people and systems, or from however, that achieving complete certainty that processes, people or systems resulting in an over the control of key processes external events, including such failures could not occur would entail an interruption to normal operations.
Dependency Monitoring of compliance with established procedures and processes is carried regulatory control failures.
on sophisticated stochastic models may introduce out to identify shortcomings operational risk.
Additionally, natural or man-made Employee manual and Human Resource policies ensure that staff are aware disasters could impact Amlin's operating platform of key policy requirements in one or more location.
Risk events and near misses are reported to raise awareness and identify areas for improvement Internal Model validation and data quality controls aim to ensure that data is captured and processed with accuracy Business continuity management planning ensures that key operations will be restored in an acceptable time frame should there be disruption.
Operational risk people: Attitude: Negative Amlin's ability to service The experience and expertise of Amlin's underwriters Senior employee contracts have notice periods to ensure that people Chief Executive Loss of key staff.
the renewal of existing business portfolios and is an important aspect of Amlin's business model and resigning can be replaced by successors in an orderly way the underwriting of new business relies on the contributes to the strength of our market franchise Succession planning and talent management ensures there is a depth experience and expertise of its senior underwriters.
and our ability to underwrite profitably.
of talent Remuneration policies aim towards staff retention as well as incentivisation.
Continuity of senior management is also important Relationships with investors, regulators and other for the development and execution of Group external parties are also of equal benefit.
strategy and relationships with key stakeholders.
Amlin plc 36 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Risk trend Mitigation strategies and key controls for each underlying risk Executive Link to and measure exposure are outlined below responsibility strategic priorities Market risk investment Attitude: Positive Amlin has a positive attitude Amlin seeks to optimise its investment income whilst Investment policy and strategic asset allocation aims to maximise long-term Chief Finance & market volatility: to market risk, constrained by a desire to limit the focusing on ensuring it maintains sufficient capital to investment returns in relation to an agreed risk budget Operations Officer The risk arising from potential downside risk to the value of carried assets meet solvency requirements and sufficient liquid Tactical asset allocation responds to expectations for short-term market fluctuations in values to within a maximum Value at Risk VaR tolerance.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 37 Resources and relationships Strategic management of our resources and relationships is vital to ensure the sustainability of our business and its ability to adapt to changing market conditions.
Mark Farrow Global HR Director Amlin plc 38 Annual Report 2014 p i h s r Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 e d a e L T y e t a i r m g e w t o n r I k Mean Mean Our business model p. 24 Employee turnover age of service of and experience Voluntary employees employees at 31 December 2014 Headcount Turnover turnover years years Senior underwriters 136 8.1% 8.1% 45.6 9.6 Our strategy p. 26 Other underwriters 278 7.9% 6.5% 38.8 8.0 Underwriting support 390 13.3% 9.0% 37.7 7.3 Key performance indicators p. 28 Claims staff 107 6.5% 2.8% 46.4 11.0 Claims support 263 12.9% 8.0% 38.0 7.5 Operational 333 12.6% 6.9% 42.2 6.4 Risk management p. 30 Operational support 366 25.7% 12.6% 37.9 6.1 Total 1,873 14.0% 8.4% 39.8 7.4 Resources and relationships During 2014, as part of the reorganisation of the Group into three global Strategic Business Units SBUs supported by centralised We believe that the best way to achieve service functions, some roles were changed or became redundant.
sustainable success is to act in the The impact of this is reflected in the overall turnover figures for 2014. long-term interests of our shareholders, Senior Senior Amlin employees Underwriters Underwriters our clients and our business partners, at 31 December 2014 2014 2013 2013 while making a positive contribution to Amlin Group including shared the markets and communities in which services 303 284 we operate.
Amlin London 386 56 385 50 Amlin UK 441 28 474 29 Amlin Singapore 20 2 15 Underwriting management p. 48 Amlin France 86 5 81 7 Amlin Bermuda 59 8 55 7 Financial review p. 56 Amlin Europe 404 15 414 14 Amlin Re Europe 49 15 52 17 Amlin Reinsurance Resources Managers 4 2 4 2 RaetsMarine 121 5 122 6 People Total 1,873 136 1,886 132 Our employees are a key asset and our ability to attract, develop and retain talent is important to the long-term sustainability of the Group.
Senior This is reflected in Amlins strategic objective to become the place Amlin employees by Strategic Business Unit Underwriters to work in our markets.
The high level of retention of our senior at 31 December 2014 2014 2014 underwriters, in particular, underpins our unique underwriting culture, Reinsurance 114 44 providing a foundation for the extension of our underwriting business Marine & Aviation 199 32 model into new markets and through the integration of acquisitions.
Property & Casualty 483 60 We also recognise the importance of ensuring that this culture is Claims 367 sustainable through recruitment and training, as reflected in our Other functions 710 focus and investment in talent management.
Total 1,873 136 Our Values Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 39 p e l a e S c r n u n f o o i e p s r l s e l m e e r f a i c o o n r x c r P e e y t i l i n b o a s n u i c a o t F s u s Resources and relationships continued Employee engagement Talent management in action The restructuring of the business represents a major organisational change, as well as a considerable cultural shift for Amlin and its employees.
During 2014 this change process was supported by a variety of training programmes, for example on how to manage Tom Oostra Im really pleased with international teams and how to use technology to support global Head of Strategy & Underwriting the opportunities Amlin has teamworking.
Management Marine & Aviation offered me.
I believe that any Amlin employee with Employees are most engaged when there is a clear line of sight clear potential and ambition between what they do and the companys strategy.
Providing this will be able to pursue career clarity was one of our key objectives during the year, supported development opportunities by a programme of employee engagement activity.
We rolled out a single global intranet so that every employee, wherever they are, has access to information about Amlin as we know that information is key to engagement.
We also established an online leadership community, which is beginning the process of managing Tom, 36, joined Amlin through When this became a global intellectual capital across the business.
In addition, presentations the acquisition of Fortis Strategic Business Unit in 2014, have been held throughout the Group explaining the restructuring Corporate insurance in 2009, Tom was appointed Head of of the business, the creation of a single brand for Amlin, and how having previously worked within Strategy & Underwriting these two actions fit together.
the ABN Amro group as an Management, and has been auditor.
After working in the closely involved in its organisation Separate portals have been created for each of the global SBUs and for Netherlands on the initial and the formulation of an different functions, as a way of sharing knowledge for an increasingly acquisition of Fortis, Tom became integrated global growth strategy.
an underwriting manager with the I have been lucky that I have European marine team, helping been able to rely on strong teams Talent management to develop and implement the of talent around me in all my roles The restructure provides new opportunities for employees and creates turnaround strategy which at Amlin and worked for some new requirements to support Amlins future development.
Therefore we contributed to its improved excellent managers and business are investing in the selection and development of talent with increased profitability.
In 2012, Tom moved leaders, who have all taught me a rigour, and in 2014 laid out ground rules that will be implemented in 2015. to London as Practice Manager lot, whether it has been technical for the newly created Marine skills, my cultural understanding We are already operating three talent pools to service the new & Aviation Practice Board.
These cover: Executive development which is linked particularly to senior leadership succession Emerging leaders taking individuals who are currently good Piyush Patel The opportunity to see a managers and helping them to become great leaders Chief Operations Officer company grow and change, General management development which is designed to while being part of the facilitate the lateral movement of managers across a broader executive management team international business in the thick of it has brought a level of learning and personal We have also created the Amlin Underwriting Faculty to help train junior challenge which is what I underwriters so that they can become future underwriting leaders.
We are enhancing our performance management processes, and clarifying a competency framework that will formalise performance criteria and enable more objective assessments.
In 2015, for the first time, all staff will be assessed according to the same performance Piyush, 46, joined Amlin Talent Management management process.
in 2009 from a management Programme I have developed consulting background, with my leadership skills and this extensive experience of the included attending a course Our people strategic objectives insurance industry and a on leadership development Ensuring exceptional skills to deliver unrivalled service degree in Computer Science.
at the INSEAD business school Securing strong leadership and performance management Initially Piyush was involved in Paris.
Enabling employees to move to different locations and in the integration of the business areas Fortis business, and then was Engaging and communicating effectively appointed Chief Information Supporting our performance, brand and strategy through Officer with responsibility for a fair reward system the Groups overall IT strategy.
In 2014 he was promoted to Chief Operations Officer, responsible for IT, Business Change, Operational strategy and Facilities.
Through the Amlin plc 40 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Talent management in action Tom Clementi Working for a company that is Razia P. K. M. Abdul The most valuable thing Ive Head of Operations growing and changing within Communications Business learned from my experience in Miami an industry that is doing Partner Property & Casualty Amlin is the importance of likewise, and helping to keep management support.
I have the business moving in the been fortunate to meet people right direction, is a challenging who have always been but interesting, and ultimately supportive and encouraging and rewarding experience.
they have made a substantial contribution to my success.
Tom, 35, joined Amlin in 2007 Head of Business Development Razia, 38, came into the Casualty Strategic Business having previously worked as in London.
In 2014 Tom moved insurance industry as a Unit, a new role created to a corporate lawyer including to Miami to set up a new Amlin marketing adviser, having ensure that the central acting for Amlin on its 2005 office, as Head of Operations, graduated in Paris in communications team works rights issue.
I was attracted to develop the companys Latin International Trade.
She joined in partnership with the strategic by the industrys direct and America reinsurance business.
I had the chance immediate link to major real Opening an office provides a AFU as Marketing & to benefit from the first of the life events, often with a global fantastic opportunity to work Communications Manager in Amlin talent management impact.
Tom was initially part with others and learn about the 2004.
AFU was acquired by programmes.
Ive learnt a lot of Amlins strategy team based numerous ingredients required Amlin in 2008 and became from the programme and it has in London, researching to get a successful business Amlin France in 2010. enhanced both my competence opportunities for the Group off the ground.
and my confidence to progress and working on a number of In October 2014, Razia moved within the organisation.
In 2012 he joined to London and joined the Amlin the underwriting management global communications team team for the Marine & Aviation as Communications Business Practice Board before becoming Partner for the Property & Will Ho Amlins management have Stephen Price The underwriting culture and Market Unit Head for Asia been fully supportive of my Lead Underwriter atmosphere at Amlin is superb Reinsurance strategy for growth in the Asia Reinsurance and has the correct balance region, giving me the flexibility between support and individual and support to work towards empowerment to give you the achieving our goals here.
confidence to take decisive action and a lead role in the London market.
Gaining this confidence and belief has been the most significant benefit of being part of the Amlin team.
Will, 34, was recruited in During my initial stint in London Stephen, 33, joined Amlin from authority levels and autonomy 2012 to help Amlin develop I was able to integrate myself a major broker where he gained within the division and I have reinsurance business in into the team culture and experience as a catastrophe enjoyed the responsibility of Asia, having previously spent understand the company fully.
reinsurance broker in London taking decisions on significant seven years as a reinsurance With the relocation to Singapore, and the US.
Starting as a junior client accounts.
underwriter focused on the I was then able to bring that underwriter at Amlin, he region.
On joining Amlin, Will education with me and pass it was invited to join the Talent was initially based in London on to my fellow team members Management Programme as part of the International to ensure the regional team and has progressed to become Reinsurance team.
In 2014 he understands and embraces Lead Underwriter in the North was promoted to Market Unit the Amlin culture.
America Catastrophe and Head for Asia and relocated Risk team.
to the Singapore office, responsible for managing the As I have gained increased Asian treaty portfolio across experience and familiarity with all lines and continuing to build our clients and business this has Amlins presence in the region.
been rewarded with increased Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 41 Resources and relationships continued Aligning remuneration with our strategy Amlin has a long standing policy of equal opportunities in employment As part of the 2013 strategic review, we recognised that Amlins and this applies to the appointment and development of all staff.
remuneration arrangements were no longer aligned with the needs The Group is committed to employing people solely on their ability of the business and could inhibit the achievement of the Groups to do the job and we do not operate a policy of positive discrimination.
Subsequently, we commissioned a Therefore, while the profile of newly recruited staff is more diverse further review by Deloitte and undertook consultation with our key at a junior level, the Group has very low turnover in its senior stakeholders and employees.
As a result, we implemented changes management population and the diversity mix at this level will take to employee remuneration, which took effect from 1 January 2015, longer to change.
Nevertheless, our focus on developing talent at to align it more closely with our strategic objectives.
all levels in the organisation is enabling us to improve on the current situation.
For example, in the second half of 2014 a number of senior For example, whereas underwriters were previously rewarded on the positions including the Heads of Internal Audit, Oversight, and performance of their underwriting portfolio, class of business or local Service Management, were filled by women.
entity, the new arrangements mean that the majority of an individuals bonus will be derived from the performance of their SBU as a whole.
The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is highlighted in our Equal Opportunities Policy and underpinned by our The principal objective of the changes is to promote greater core values which provide clear guidelines on how we behave towards collaboration across the Group in line with the new structure.
In addition, the new remuneration structure is designed to reward profitable growth as well as good underwriting profitability.
The changes also have the benefit of creating a simpler and more Human Rights consistent reward structure across the business, enabling greater The Group supports and operates its business in accordance with mobility of individuals between countries and business units, and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights UDHR and takes making the reward structure more scalable for the future.
Managing account of other internationally recognised and accepted human the risk of losing senior underwriters, with effective communication rights standards, including but not limited to, the International and consultation, was an important part of the process.
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ICCPR, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights ICESCR and Diversity the International Labour Organisation ILO Core Conventions.
Our people are instrumental to our success and we respect and value the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to This support is expressed through our Human Rights Policy as the business.
As at 31 December 2014 we employed 1,873 people well as a number of Group policies, including our Health & Safety in 14 different locations across the globe.
The table below shows the Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy, Non-Employed Workers Policy gender split at different levels within the organisation.
Amlins diversity and Harassment Policy.
statistics reflect the legacy of the insurance industry, being historically male dominated.
Capital Capital is a key resource.
The strength and liquidity of the balance We are committed to encouraging and supporting gender and other sheet underpins our client proposition, allowing us to respond quickly forms of diversity.
As at 31 December 2014, 47% of our workforce to claims in the event of a large catastrophe event.
Clients and brokers across the Group was female.
At a senior leadership level 22% of the are increasingly focused on counterparty risk, and as they become plc Board are women, however at executive committee level and senior more selective, this strength is an important competitive advantage.
management level the figures are lower, 10% and 17% respectively.
We aim to manage our capital proactively with a focus on maintaining The proportion of senior management comprised of women has sufficient capital strength, while delivering our KPI of an average almost doubled in the year.
cross-cycle return on equity of at least 15%.
For further discussion of capital, go to page 61.
AMC figures exclude plc Directors Amlin plc 42 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Our brand In order to grow the business and achieve our strategic objectives, Amlin adopted a single global brand in 2014, and has put in place a team capable of managing that brand worldwide.
The future of the Group requires the development of brand awareness of Amlin as a global company, and our sponsorship of a team in the launch series of Formula E is helping us to develop this awareness in markets in which we want to grow.
Formula E is a high-profile motor racing series, parallel to Formula 1 but for high-performance electric vehicles.
The current series comprises street races in 10 major cities around the world from Beijing to Buenos Aires.
Marketing around this sponsorship is particularly targeted at the underwriters, brokers, employees and end-customers of the future and the series itself actively promotes technical innovation.
At the same time we are also sponsoring a research programme in partnership with the Future of Humanity Institute at the Oxford Martin School into the topic of systemic risk in relation to modelling, demonstrating thought leadership in an area of significant interest and importance to the industry as a whole.
In line with our goal of involving the wider insurance market in this project, in 2014 we created an Industry Working Party on the Systemic Risk of Modelling.
This collaborative forum includes several re insurers and other insurance industry practitioners working alongside our academic partners.
