Corporate governance report continued Board of directors 4 2 9 1 8 3 6 5 7 1.
Richard Davey Chief Underwriting Officer Non-Executive Chairman N, R&S Appointed a Director in 2011.
Appointed a Director in 2005 and Amlin plc Chairman in 2012.
Background and relevant experience Background and relevant experience Simon Beale is the Chief Underwriting Officer CUO of Amlin plc.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He retired as a senior He is a non-executive director of Amlin Underwriting Limited having independent director of Severn Trent Plc in January 2015 and was been a director since 2000. non-executive vice chairman of the Yorkshire Building Society until April 2012 and non-executive chairman of London Capital Group Simon Beales background is as a specialist marine hull underwriter Holdings plc until August 2012.
The majority of his executive career since joining the Lloyds market in 1984, becoming a recognised was spent in investment banking at N M Rothschild & Sons Limited, international leader in this field.
He joined Amlin in 1994 and headed in roles including Head of Investment Banking and chairman of the Amlins marine business from 2001 to 2009.
From 2008 he was Executive Committee.
A financial services sector responsible for the London business until appointed to the role of specialist, he advised Lloyds of London, and then Equitas, on the CUO in 2012.
Reconstruction and Renewal proposals of the early 1990s.
He has worked in the Lloyds market since 1984 with a specialism in 4.
He has served on various Lloyds underwriting Independent Non-Executive A, N, R&S committees.
He is currently a member of the Lloyds Market Association Appointed a Director in 2007.
Board and in 2015 he was elected to serve a second three-year term on the Council of Lloyds.
Background and relevant experience Chairman of the Risk & Solvency Committee and Senior Independent 2.
Marty Feinstein is a member of the National Association of Independent Non-Executive A, N, R, R&S Corporate Directors.
He is a non-executive director and chairman of Appointed a Director in 2013. the Audit and Finance Committee of Reynolds American Inc.
He was non-executive director of GeoVera Insurance Holdings Limited until Background and relevant experience August 2012 and was chairman and chief executive officer of Farmers Julie Chakraverty is non-executive director and chair of the Innovation Group Inc. from 1997 to 2005, when he retired after 35 years service.
Committee of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and a non-executive By 2005 Farmers was the third-largest property and casualty group director of Spirit Pub Company plc.
She is a former non-executive in the US.
Marty Feinstein is a US citizen.
director of the insurance company Paternoster.
Her previous executive career was at UBS where she was a board member of the investment bank, holding global roles within capital markets and digital platforms.
She started in financial services over 20 years ago at J. P. Morgan.
She is also a Trustee of the Girls Day School Trust.
Amlin plc 70 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 5.
Charles Philipps Chief Finance & Operations Officer Chief Executive N Appointed Group Finance Director in 1999 and became Chief Finance Appointed Chief Executive in 1999, having joined the Board as Group & Operations Officer in 2012.
Background and relevant experience Background and relevant experience Chartered Accountant.
Richard Hextall was a director of the Lloyds Chartered Accountant.
Charles Philipps represented Amlin Corporate Market Association from 2007 to 2010 and a member of its Finance Member Limited on the Council of Lloyds from 2001 to 2007, was a Committee from 2002 to 2009 chairman from 2005 to 2007. vice chairman of the Lloyds Market Association from 2004 to 2007 He was also a member of the Lloyds Investment Committee from and president of The Insurance Institute of London 2008 to 2009, having 2003 to 2007.
He joined Amlin from Deloitte & Touche, where he was previously served on its Council.
He was a director of NatWest Markets a director specialising in the insurance and financial services sector.
Corporate Finance Limited until 1997, having been employed there from Richard Hextall has been an independent non-executive director of 1983.
Whilst at NatWest Markets he was responsible for the formation The City of London Investment Trust plc since 2007 where he is the and flotation on the London Stock Exchange of Angerstein Underwriting Audit Committee chairman and senior independent director.
Trust PLC, which became Amlin plc.
Charles Philipps is a non-executive director of Great Portland Estates from 1 April 2014 and has been 6.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page a trustee unpaid of The Outward Bound Trust since December 2010.
Independent Non-Executive A, N, R, R&S Appointed a Director in 2012.
Independent Non-Executive N, R Background and relevant experience Appointed a Director in 2006.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page is a former chief operating officer for CDC Group plc and a former non-executive director Background and relevant experience and chairman of the Audit Committee of both Havelock Europa plc and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Mark retired as coClose Brothers Group plc.
She is a non-executive director and chairman chairman of Close Brothers Corporate Finance Limited in 2006.
He of the Audit Committee of GKN plc, APR Energy plc and Greencoat UK was formerly chairman of the London Investment Banking Association Wind plc.
In addition she is a non-executive director of Origo Partners plc, Corporate Finance Committee and a member of the Panel on Takeovers which is based in the Isle of Man.
Until recently she was chairman of the and Mergers.
Sir Mark is a non-executive director of Domino Printing Sustainability Committee for the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Sciences plc and was a non-executive director of Tees Valley Regeneration England & Wales and is the examiner of an Indian childrens cancer charity Limited until July 2008 and of British Vita plc from 2004 to 2005. based in Mumbai.
She was formerly an audit partner at KPMG, specialising in financial institutions, including insurance.
Current Committee memberships are denoted by the following letters: A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee 7.
Oliver Peterken R Remuneration Committee Independent Non-Executive A, N, R&S R&S Risk & Solvency Committee Appointed a Director in 2014.
Appointed to the Remuneration Committee effective 1 March 2015.
Directors are British citizens unless stated otherwise.
Background and relevant experience Oliver Peterken is deputy chairman and chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee of the Willow Foundation.
He is a former non-executive director of Torus Insurance Holdings Limited and the former Group Chief Risk Officer of Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited.
He was previously Managing Director of Willis Consulting Limited, where he had a global remit spanning the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Australia and held a number of senior management positions during his 10 years with Willis.
He graduated from UMIST and started his career with the National Audit Office where he qualified as an accountant before moving to Prudential Corporation plc.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 71 Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness Performance Evaluation The performance of the Board and its Committees is evaluated Independent Non-Executive Directors each year.
The most recent external evaluation was carried out by The Board is made up of a Non-Executive Chairman, five independent Independent Board Evaluation in 2012 and was reported in the 2013 Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The Chairman Report and Accounts.
In 2014, an internal online questionnaire and was independent on his appointment as a Non-Executive Director in 2005. individual interviews with the Group Company Secretary were used However, following his appointment as Chairman on 17 May 2012 he is to evaluate the Boards effectiveness.
no longer classed as independent.
The Board considers that the skills and experience of its members, particularly in the areas of insurance, The results were presented to the Board and its Committees in reinsurance, finance and risk are fundamental to the pursuit of Amlins November 2014 and plans to address any issues that arose as a result strategic objectives.
All Directors will offer themselves for re-election of the evaluation were presented at the February 2015 meetings.
at the next AGM, with the exception of Sir Mark Wrightson who will retire, and Oliver Peterken who will be proposed for election.
The Board has The Board concluded that it and the Committees were effective and authorised a number of potential conflicts of interest relating to the had an appropriate balance of skills and experience to discharge their Directors independence in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 responsibilities appropriately.
Furthermore, the Board concluded that and the Articles of Association Articles.
there was an appropriate level of challenge and discussion to enable the Board and its Committees to work effectively as a unit.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
The Chairman sets the agenda, ensures the Directors receive accurate, Succession Planning timely and clear information, and sets the tone for Board discussions.
Executive succession planning is reviewed annually by the Board.
During the year the Board also reviewed Amlins Talent Management The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Programme, which was re-designed in 2014 to increase its alignment Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors as with the succession planning process.
He is also available to shareholders should they have concerns not yet resolved through other channels.
During the year the Nomination Committee discussed non-executive succession planning.
The Committee identified the need for an Changes in commitments of Chairman additional non-executive director with knowledge of the insurance The Chairmans commitments have not changed during 2014.
As market to address the Boards views regarding its desired balance well as leading the Board and setting the tone from the top he is a of skills and experience in the medium term.
An external recruitment member of the Risk & Solvency Committee and the Chairman of the consultant was used to assist in finding an individual with the right Nomination Committee.
He is also an attendee at the Audit Committee skills and experience and the process culminated in the recruitment and the Remuneration Committee.
of Oliver Peterken to the Board in September 2014.
His biographical details can be found on page 71.
Internal Board Evaluation Q1 2014 Q3 2014 Q4 2014 Results of prior-year evaluation Terms of Reference agreed with Questionnaires returned and Company Secretary and reviewed, action taken identified Committee and Board Chairman Company Secretary and SID Chairmen of Board and and key themes for forthcoming holds one-to-one interviews Committees discuss results evaluation set out with Directors Draft questionnaires agreed and SID discusses Chairman Results of evaluation and method of delivery confirmed evaluation results with Chairman actions to be taken agreed by the Board Committee and monitored Amlin plc 72 Annual Report 2014
