Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report continued We receive feedback from the audit committees of the Groups main subsidiaries Amlin Europe N. V. and Amlin Underwriting Limited and the board of Amlin AG at each meeting which ensures any relevant issues are highlighted to the Committee.
In addition, I attend a meeting of the audit committee of Amlin Europe N. V. and Amlin Underwriting Limited and a board meeting of Amlin AG which ensures we have appropriate interaction with the independent non-executive directors of those subsidiaries.
We have the authority to engage our own independent external advice at the Companys expense.
During 2014, no external advice was requested.
Significant issues In 2014 our activities focused on financial reporting, compliance and changes within the internal audit function.
In parallel with the changes to the internal audit function, and in order to ensure that appropriate assurance is in place to oversee Amlins risks, we continued to drive the development of an integrated risk and assurance map of the business, detailing the three lines of defence, which is discussed later in this report.
In addition, we reviewed the Groups cyber threat plan and a pilot culture review that was undertaken by the internal audit function.
We requested that a further update on the improvements being made to the Groups cyber security profile should be presented in 2015.
The Committee also reviewed the FRC changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code which will be implemented in 2015.
Financial Reporting Area of focus Action Reserving risk Throughout the year we have monitored the transition to an actuarial-led reserving process.
Insurance business is inherently uncertain and much of Amlins The Group Actuary attended the May Committee meeting to provide detail of the roll out plan and business is large commercial insurance discuss the associated initial issues and challenges and how they would be managed.
At the half or reinsurance which can be volatile year an early close and roll forward actuarially-led reserving process was piloted for estimating and for which it is difficult to estimate the reserves at 30 June 2014.
PwC scrutinised this process and provided feedback and claims.
Therefore there is a risk that the recommendations which were adopted for the year end.
reserves carried are not sufficient, both in relation to case reserves on individual In the February 2015 Committee meeting the Chief Actuary presented his actuarial best estimate large losses and in respect of claims reserve recommendations and we challenged him and management on all aspects of the process.
which have been incurred but are not We discussed and challenged the validity of data and the interaction with and challenge from yet reported.
claims managers, underwriters and other management.
The reserving risk has been heightened We also examined changes from the previous process in relation to various estimations and this year as the Group transitioned to judgements which could give rise to inconsistency with prior year reserves.
In particular an a reserving process for Amlin London, adjustment was made to the estimate of earned premium to reflect better the seasonal nature Amlin UK and Amlin Bermuda led by of certain classes of business for example, US Windstorm, which enhanced earned premium by the actuaries rather than a process led 19.1 million.
We challenged this adjustment and were satisfied that it had been properly calculated by the underwriting and claims teams.
and matched the changes in claims recognition profile that the new process has introduced.
This process produces an actuarial best estimate to which an explicit We are satisfied that the actuarial-led reserving process is an enhancement to the previous process management margin is added.
As with which will produce more consistent, analytical and transparent reserving across the Group.
any new process there is a risk that weaknesses in the processes could In relation to the Groups reserves as at 31 December 2014 proposed by management, the lead to unreliable reserve estimates Committee reviewed and challenged all key reserving judgements including the development which are inconsistent with prior years.
of large losses such as the New Zealand earthquake, cases subject to litigation, the quantum of prior-year reserve releases and the reserve margin applied by management.
The overriding aim of the Groups reserving process is to establish We also gained comfort from the fact that PwCs independent reprojections of a significant reserves which are expected to be proportion of the reserves produced very consistent results.
Following this review and challenge at least adequate and that there is we accepted managements proposals in relation to the reserves.
Amlin plc 78 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Area of focus Action Revenue Recognition We understand, from management, the processes and controls over the contracts written through Premium income is recognised at binding authorities and other third parties including the estimation of premium income in relation the inception of a contract and is to such contracts.
We reviewed the historic accuracy of EPI against actual premium income earned over the life of the contract.
and found this to be satisfactory.
In relation to multi-year contracts, we ascertained that gross On a significant proportion of contracts, premium written has been recognised appropriately.
We agreed with managements position that for example on those written through no provision be made for loss of income on multi-year contracts which might be cancelled in the binders, the premium income has to future and we will keep this area under review.
A significant amount of judgement goes into determining estimated premium income EPI and therefore there is a risk of misstatement of gross written premium and earned premium.
In addition, 2014 has seen a significant increase in the number of multi-year contracts, which have cancellation clauses which can be enforced by the client in future years.
There is therefore a risk that gross written premium is overstated.
Key accounting judgements relating Following the increase in its interest in LCP, the Group has assessed whether it controls LCP to the acquisition of Leadenhall and should therefore consolidate LCP from this date onwards.
Under the revised partnership Capital Partners LLP LCP deed, the Group has obtained the right to determine the majority of the board members.
It has The Group increased its interest in been concluded the Group has the power to direct the relevant activities of the partnership and LCP from 40% to 75% on 23 October LCP should be consolidated.
We concur with this accounting treatment.
Significant judgement was exercised in determining whether In the acquisition accounting that followed, the deferred contingent consideration was estimated, the Group has control of LCP and being payable as a multiple of 2013, 2014 and 2015 profits.
Judgement was exercised in selecting the should be consolidated.
It followed that forecast used for 2015.
The fair value of the original investment made reference to the consideration acquisition accounting was appropriate for the new stake and market benchmarks, while allowing a discount for the absence of control.
which gave rise to significant judgements to determine the fair value of the An intangible asset of 15.1 million relating to LCPs customer relationships has been identified.
deferred contingent consideration, The fair value attributed to the intangible asset has been based on the estimated net present value the original investment and the of forecast future cash flows attributable to the existing customer relationships.
The useful life identified intangible asset.
of the intangible asset is considered to be the period of time that the annual cash flows generated by the asset are expected to remain material.
This was determined to be 12 years.
We reviewed the key judgements associated with determining the fair valuation of the deferred contingent consideration and the existing interest, taking into account the different valuation techniques used and other quantitative and qualitative factors and have accepted that managements position is appropriate.
Compliance and Conduct We receive a report from the Group Head of Compliance at every meeting updating us on all During the year, we have taken a close ongoing issues and actions taken.
In relation to Amlin UK, the CEO of Amlin Underwriting Limited interest in regulatory compliance and who is the executive responsible, attended three Committee meetings to present a remediation conduct issues given the increasing risk plan and explain progress against that plan.
We also discussed and monitored issues arising from in this area and the reputational damage the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA periodic review of our UK businesses and a review of and monetary penalties caused by claims handling processes and performance.
We focused particularly on three areas, We reviewed issues arising in Crowe Livestock and the subsequent integration of that company being Amlin UK, where an expert report into the more robust Group framework of management and control.
We also noted that commissioned by the Company in 2013 management has subsequently enhanced its approach to the integration of acquired entities.
highlighted areas that required attention and remediation, Crowe Livestock where We monitored the response of Amlin Europe to the enhanced expectations of the Dutch regulatory we identified non-compliance with Group authorities in respect of sanctions screening to ensure that a workable solution is found which policies, and sanctions screening is to the satisfaction of those regulators.
requirements in the Dutch market.
