Corporate governance report continued Reserved and delegated decisions Key non-standard issues considered in the past year included: The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters Reserved which is reviewed a review of managements plans for the reorganisation of the Group annually and is available in the governance section at www.
including the creation of three client-facing global Strategic Business It was last reviewed in May 2014.
Key decisions and matters reserved Units SBUs and the consolidation of all non-underwriting functions to the Board include those relating to the Groups strategy and business the acquisition of an additional 35% of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP plan, approval of major acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure, the Companys new remuneration policy financial results and the agreement and monitoring of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
Executive Committees From 1 September 2014, Amlin had five key executive committees which The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the are responsible for the day-to-day management of the organisation.
following committees: Audit Committee The Amlin Management Committee provides oversight of the Groups Nomination Committee performance and capabilities with a view to the Group achieving its Risk & Solvency Committee strategic objectives.
Remuneration Committee The Amlin Talent Committee is responsible for the oversight and Further details of the work each Committee carried out in 2014 development of talent within Amlin from graduate employees through is on pages 73 to 74 and 77 to 101. to senior management.
It is also responsible for developing succession planning for senior management up to but not including Board level.
Meetings of the Board The Board meets at least four times a year and met seven times The Investment Management Executive sets the strategic asset during 2014.
At each meeting it receives a written report from allocation and tactical asset allocation ranges for Amlins investment the Chief Executive, a separate report on investor relations and portfolios.
It also monitors investment performance and levels an update on strategic initiatives.
Other key areas of focus include of investment risk.
Group financial performance, underwriting performance, investments, employee and organisational matters and a regular update on the The Executive Underwriting & Risk Committee provides a external business environment.
comprehensive review of the Groups aggregated risk profile and the applicability of the risk management framework, paying particular consideration to underwriting areas of concern, and internal control adequacy ensuring that appropriate mitigating action is taken.
Board and Committee reporting structure Amlin plc Board Richard Davey Chief Executive Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Risk & Solvency Charles Philipps Shonaid Jemmett-Page Committee Committee Committee Richard Davey Sir Mark Wrightson Marty Feinstein Amlin Management Committee Charles Philipps Amlin Talent Committee Investment Executive Underwriting Amlin Finance & Charles Philipps Management Executive & Risk Committee Operations Committee Jayne Styles Charles Philipps Richard Hextall SBU Review Committees Marine & Aviation Property & Casualty Reinsurance Simon Beale Amlin plc 68 Annual Report 2014
