Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 The Amlin Finance & Operations Committee oversees the effectiveness of both the Finance and IT & Operations functions and promotes joined-up business support and value-enhancing improvements.
Strategy The Board is responsible for setting and overseeing the implementation of Amlins strategy.
In addition to the regular update on strategic initiatives which is presented at every meeting, the Board holds two strategy days each year in April and October.
These sessions are used to review important trends which may affect Amlin, review our long-term strategy and aspirations and consider any new actions or activity which may be required to ensure that Amlin can deliver its strategy.
Culture and tone from the top The Board is responsible for setting the tone from the top in respect of the Groups governance, culture and values.
It holds management to account for reinforcing Amlins values throughout the Group.
Amlins desire to differentiate itself from competitors by becoming increasingly client-centric is a cultural shift for Amlin.
The Board is conscious of wanting to achieve this shift without losing the other attributes of Amlins culture which have contributed to its success.
The Board has reviewed plans for implementing a customer relationship management system and introducing net promoter scoring, as well as a new service management framework which has been designed to help reinforce the theme of client centricity and manage high levels of client service, both to external clients and internally within Amlin.
Regulators are placing greater emphasis on customer outcomes and the conduct of insurers and the Board recognises the importance of the relationship between culture and compliance.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the progress that had been made as a result of an internal audit on culture and behaviours which took place in 2012-3.
It has also been decided to incorporate consideration of risk control and culture in all future internal audit reports.
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 77 to 81.
