Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Outlook Property & Casualty The competitive markets in which Amlin operates are going through The Property & Casualty business is diverse, covering the Lloyds a period of significant change.
The factors behind this are numerous: operation and domestic UK and continental European insurance.
capital is abundant and in open markets it will seek out opportunities The pro-forma combined ratio for 2014 was 94%.
Both the Lloyds where relatively strong returns can be delivered, regulatory attention and European businesses produced good results, with poor performance is heightened following the financial crisis and technology continues in the year for the UK business, due to flooding and heightened large to dramatically impact the manner in which data can be analysed and loss activity.
These factors will continue to have an impact on the business in 2015.
At 1 January 2015, rating was flat across the business unit, with modest reductions in Lloyds, stability in continental Europe and continued The strength of Amlins franchise, the diversity of its business model and improvement in the UK with commercial motor renewals achieving rate the skill of its people are essential for success in this environment.
Retention rates were high at 91%.
has a track record of being disciplined in difficult markets: a core focus on profitability and ability to adapt are essential.
Good growth was again possible in Europe, with a 7.8% increase on the previous year building on the success of 2014 and the new office The reorganisation of the business into three Strategic Business Units in Germany.
70% of planned business was written at 1 January due to facing core markets is a clear demonstration that the business has the the skew of continental renewals to 1 January inception dates.
ability to adapt and make effective use of the Group skill base to pursue the Groups goals.
In the UK, action continued to be taken to correct poor performing parts of the business, particularly the haulage subsector of the motor account Reinsurance where volatility was evident in 2014.
This led to modest contraction at In Reinsurance, rating pressure has been intense but profitability has 1 January but with improvement in expected profitability of the balance remained good.
Underlying rating adequacy was acceptable in 2014 but of the account.
during 2015 is expected to see continued downward pressure.
During the 2015 January renewals, rates fell across the reinsurance account by Investments an average of 6.1%.
Parts of the portfolio are now reaching levels where Investment markets are expected to remain challenging for 2015.
Global return expectations are barely adequate for the risk taken.
Our broadgrowth remains weak with significant variance across the global economy.
based reinsurance offering, and our ability to lead terms and handle claims Falling inflation expectations led the European Central Bank to embark on professionally continues to be attractive to brokers and clients.
However, a quantitative easing programme in January 2015.
In addition, while the underwriting discipline and skill remain key to success: reducing lines or fall in the oil price has generated debate about whether this is supply or coming off layers where rating is inadequate.
Consequently, less business demand led, the result is effectively a tax cut for net oil importing countries has been renewed with the retention rate falling to 83% 2014: 86%.
and in particular their consumers.
This boost to the world economy is expected to be marginally offset by the negative impact on oil producers, After taking account of the distorting impact of multi-year contracts and including the US shale oil industry.
foreign exchange, written income was down modestly by 3.6%, with the strong dollar helping to hold premium levels.
Even without these additional stimuli, global economic growth is expected to have a stronger bias this year than last.
Notably, in the There are parts of the portfolio where rating pressure is less severe US unemployment is back to levels last seen in 2008 and is rapidly and growth has been possible, such as in continental European approaching the point below which the Federal Reserve believes the non-catastrophe classes.
slack in the labour market has been used up and wage pressure will cause inflation to accelerate: when it reaches that point the current Importantly, the influx of capital into the industry and increased emergency level of interest rates may no longer be appropriate.
competitiveness have also helped to make the purchase of retrocessional reinsurance more efficient.
The same amount of reinsurance premium There also appears to be sufficient scope for policy moves to keep was spent for 2015 but cover was purchased across the business unit Chinese growth around the authorities target of 7%, as they rebalance as a whole and deeper levels of cover were available at acceptable the economy away from investment and towards consumption.
This is clear through the reduction in realistic disaster scenarios, as shown on page 33.
Consequently, equities and property are expected to outperform bonds in the shortto medium-term.
However, care is needed as valuations Marine & Aviation across asset classes are at the higher end of the scale and higher market The Marine & Aviation business unit delivered good performance in volatility is expected.
In this environment, a well-diversified portfolio 2014 with a pro-forma combined ratio of 89%.
Rating pressure increased will be retained.
but was not as intense as for reinsurance, with pressure evident where sharp increases have been achieved in recent years, such as energy Historically, Amlins outperformance of its competitors has increased and marine liability classes.
For January 2015, rates fell by 2.6% with in tougher market conditions and by maintaining strong underwriting pressure most pronounced in energy.
However, retention rates remained discipline among our highly experienced underwriting teams, this is our high at 89% and the renewals were a little ahead of plan.
It is expected aim over the coming period.
While reinsurance and insurance rates are that this pattern will continue through 2015. under pressure in a broadening number of classes, for the most part rates remain at acceptable levels with opportunities for growth, helped by our The marine reinsurance programme for the business unit was increased marketing and focus on client intimacy.
While returns on equity combined for the first time to cover the London and European will be affected by a lower margin environment, we continue to believe business.
This was placed with a small reduction in premium that we can deliver attractive returns on equity.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 63 Amlin plc 64 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Governance 66 Chairmans letter 67 Relations with shareholders 67 Leadership 70 Board of Directors 72 Effectiveness 73 Nomination Committee report 74 Accountability 77 Audit Committee report 82 Risk & Solvency Committee report 84 Directors remuneration report 102 Directors report 104 Statement of Directors responsibilities 105 Independent auditors report Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 65
