Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Nomination Committee report Richard Davey Committee Chairman Committee membership Introduction Our purpose is to ensure that the Board, its Committees and the Meetings attended individuals who fill leadership positions, have the right balance of Richard Davey Chairman 4 4 experience and qualities to deliver the strategic leadership, values, management and controls required for the Groups success.
We also Julie Chakraverty 4 4 oversee succession planning for key executives and the identification Marty Feinstein 4 4 and nomination of all candidates for Board appointment.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 4 Charles Philipps 4 4 The biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 70 to 71.
Sir Mark Wrightson 4 4 1 Oliver Peterken 1 1 Succession planning Former member Sir Mark Wrightsons nine-year tenure as an independent Non-Executive 2 Sir Alan Collins 2 2 Director completes in 2015.
As indicated in the 2013 Annual Report, Notes: Sir Alan Collins did not seek re-election at the 2014 AGM and retired 1.
Oliver Peterken joined the Committee from 1 September 2014 from the Board at that time.
We took these factors into account when, 2.
Sir Alan Collins retired from the Committee on 22 May 2014 in 2013 we decided to recruit an additional Non-Executive Director with specialist insurance experience.
A search was undertaken in 2014 which culminated in the recruitment of Oliver Peterken.
Key items in terms of reference We continue to support the objective of developing the Groups Regularly review the Boards structure, size, composition, general management capability at senior level through the development balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of talented individuals identified to participate in the Groups Talent Review the leadership needs of the organisation Management Programme.
In light of the Groups strategy, the Amlin Lead the process for appointments to the Board Talent Committee reviewed its remit to ensure the approach to talent Consider succession planning, taking into account the management and the programme of associated activities continue Groups requirements and the skills and expertise needed to meet the immediate and long-term needs of the Company.
Chaired on the Board by the Chief Executive, the Amlin Talent Committee is an executive committee which provides governance and active sponsorship of all issues relating to the development and management of talent.
The The Board reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee on 26 February Nomination Committee believes this is critical to the Groups ability 2015, and these can be found in the governance section at www.
to realise its long-term ambitions and a major differentiator that also The Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role drives operational performance.
See Resources and Relationships section on pages 38 to 47 for more details.
Appointment process We lead the process for appointing both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and during the year led the process for recruiting a new Non-Executive Director.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 73 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee report continued Having taken account of the skills and expertise required, a detailed Board Diversity % brief of the role was prepared, including the criteria against which candidates would be assessed.
Ridgeway Partners LLP, an external consultancy with no other connection to the Company, was appointed Male Female to assist with the process which began by drawing up a long list of 22% candidates and holding preliminary interviews.
Ridgeway Partners is a signatory to the UK Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
CVs of six prospective appointees were subsequently circulated to the Committee.
Having interviewed these candidates and having considered potential Non-Executive Directors serving on Group subsidiary company boards, the Committee recommended the 78% appointment of a preferred candidate to the Board.
Oliver Peterken was appointed with effect from 1 September 2014.
A member of the Institute of Risk Management with extensive insurance Executive Non-Executive split % industry experience, he met the criteria for enhancing specialist insurance expertise on the Board.
His biographical details can be found on page 71.
At his appointment, and on the recommendation Non-Executive Executive of the Committee, Oliver joined the Audit and Risk & Solvency Committees.
Subsequently, Oliver has been appointed to the 33% Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 March 2015.
Skills and experiences We recognise the importance of having a balance of Executive and 67% Non-Executive Directors with an appropriate mix of business skills, industry knowledge and experience.
Given the complex nature of our industry we seek to appoint Non-Executive Directors who have recent and relevant insurance, financial, commercial and risk experience.
We have recommended to the Board that each of the current NonExecutive Directors should be proposed for re-election at the 2015 AGM for a further full year, with the exception of Sir Mark Wrightson, Accountability who will retire, and Mr Peterken, who will be proposed for election.
Overview Following Brian Carpenter stepping down as an Executive Director Subsidiary management including main subsidiary boards and our in September 2014 and a review of the Boards executive membership, Control Framework the Committee concluded that the Executive Directors bring skills The Groups organisational and governance arrangements continue and experience to the Board that are complementary to each other to evolve and we implemented a number of changes in 2014, including and those of the Non-Executive Directors.
We have recommended reorganising our businesses into three SBUs: Reinsurance, Marine & to the Board that each Executive Director should also be proposed Aviation, and Property & Casualty, with claims and support functions for re-election at the 2015 AGM for a further full year.
No member of the Committee or Director participated in any decision In conjunction with the change in organisational structure, we regarding his or her own future.
undertook a review of existing legal entity governance in order to ensure that the Boards and their respective CEOs of regulated entities Biographical details of all Directors can be found on pages 70 to 71. can demonstrably exercise control over the affairs of their company by exercising control over the business written on their behalf by the SBUs The Directors received training throughout 2014 from internal and the services provided to them by centrally managed functions.
and third-party providers on matters relevant to their Board and Committee responsibilities.
Matters covered included competition In addition, each regulated subsidiary continues to have its own law, remuneration, the use and development of the Internal Model, executive management and has clear delegation of authority, with reserving risk and updates on Solvency II.
Group executives sitting alongside the relevant businesss executive management on the boards of each entity.
Diversity The Board believes that diversity is an important driver of both Board We have established a framework of Group policies and standards, effectiveness and business success.
Amlin remains committed to its and key internal controls and expect each SBU and centrally managed policy of diversity, including diverse skills, experience, nationality and function to comply with them.
gender in its appointments to the Board and within the Executive.
The diversity policy sets out the criteria for recruitment: recruiting individuals Plans have been drawn up to ensure each SBU and central function on merit and their suitability for the role, while remaining aware of the has clear responsibilities for ensuring they have appropriate controls skills and experience of the other Directors and senior management.
Accountability for management oversight of each SBU and function has been clearly apportioned between relevant On behalf of the Nomination Committee executives.
The risk and compliance functions operate as second lines of defence to ensure that the SBUs and functions comply with Amlins risk management framework and legal and compliance requirements.
The various executive governance bodies discussed earlier in this statement are key elements of the overall control environment.
These Richard Davey bodies receive oral and written reports from Amlins businesses and Chairman of the Nomination Committee support departments.
27 February 2015 The relationship between the main Board, its Committees and the main subsidiary boards and their committees is set out in the diagram opposite.
Amlin plc 74 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Interaction between legal entities and SBUs Amlin AG Reinsurance SBU Amlin Underwriting Ltd S2001 Marine & Aviation SBU Amlin Europe N. V. Property & Casualty SBU Amlin Insurance UK plc Board and Board Committee structure Amlin plc Board Principal plc Remuneration Nomination Risk & Solvency Audit Committee Committees Committee Committee Committee Key subsidiary Amlin AG Board Amlin Underwriting Amlin Europe N. V. Boards Ltd Board Supervisory Board Amlin AG Amlin AG Risk AUL AUL Risk AUL Audit AE Risk AE AE Audit Subsidiary Remuneration Committee Nomination & Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Committees Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Board review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control failings or weaknesses are identified, they are reported by control systems management, the risk or compliance functions or by internal audit to Board internal control statement the relevant committee.
The relevant committee also receives regular The Board is responsible for Amlins risk management and internal reports on remediation work and discussions with other interested control systems.
It has complied with principle C. 2 of the Code by parties, such as regulators.
establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group.
This process has been Risk management in place from the start of 2014 to the approval date of this report and Managed by the Chief Risk Officer CRO, our centrally managed risk includes risks arising from social, environmental and ethical matters, function oversees the management of risk, ensuring each operating in accordance with the Turnbull Report.
entity manages its risk in accordance with Group policies and allocated risk tolerances.
The Amlin Executive Underwriting & Risk Committee Directors are aware that any internal control system is designed to reviews reports from the risk function and considers appropriate manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business executive actions.
Additionally, each regulated subsidiarys board objectives.
They know that the systems can only provide reasonable is responsible for overseeing its risk, supported by risk committees and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or financial for each principal subsidiary.
In the Strategic Report on strategy and principal risks on pages 26 to 27 and 34 to 37, is further information on how the Company Risk assessment has maintained a sound system of internal controls to safeguard Amlins risk assessment process includes using an enterprise risk shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The ARM system reports on every significant identified risk to achieving Group objectives, the nature and The Risk & Solvency Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of effectiveness of controls and other management processes to manage the Groups risk management system on the Boards behalf while the these risks.
Risk tolerances or limits are set for key risk categories, Audit Committee considers the Groups financial reports, financial for example, catastrophe, reserving, investment and operational risk.
reporting process, regulatory and compliance matters.
If significant Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 75 Corporate governance report continued The risk management framework encompasses self-assessment of Financial reporting process controls by risk owners throughout the business, and the risk function Business planning independently challenges their assertions.
The internal audit function Amlin has developed a formal structured business planning process regularly reviews the risks identified by risk owners and the effectiveness for all SBUs and legal entities.
Proposed plans are presented to and of their controls and operation.
agreed by the Amlin Management Committee and relevant subsidiary boards, consolidated and then considered and approved by the Board.
The Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA brings together key Board and SBU reporting of performance against plan operates on metrics on Amlins risk and solvency position.
Amlin operates an Internal a quarterly basis, with monthly monitoring at management level.
Model that captures the key economic and risk factors that could impact Amlins performance and this is a key source of data for the ORSA.
Reserving for insurance liabilities The ORSA is produced quarterly and used to escalate significant risks, Responsibility for reserving rests with the boards of regulated subsidiaries their potential impact on the Groups financial position, any variations and, at Group consolidated level, the Board.
The Board recognises that from the agreed risk appetites, and the actions to manage those risks.
it is important that the processes executive management use in reaching The Executive Underwriting & Risk Committee and the Risk & Solvency their reserving decisions are objective and robust.
The process involves Committee review the ORSA.
ORSAs are also produced for each quarterly reserving meetings attended by senior executives from the regulated subsidiary Risk Committee, specifically relating to the SBUs, Group Risk, Finance and Actuarial departments, which review and key risk metrics for that entity.
propose required reserving levels for each SBU, subsidiary and for Amlin as a whole.
Subsequently, there is a Group Executive meeting to consider Compliance the overall position.
The reserving process is now led by the actuaries The Group Head of Compliance reports directly to the CRO.
The Group across the Group, an alignment of process completed in 2014.
Reserving Head of Compliance provides regular updates to the Audit Committee is agreed at subsidiary board level each quarter and reviewed twice yearly on compliance issues, including, but not limited to, significant exceptions as a whole by the Audit Committee.
arising from the compliance monitoring programme, routine and non-routine interactions with the Groups regulators, changes in Investments the regulatory environment, and regulatory responses to corporate The setting and execution of Amlins investment strategy has its own developments.
The compliance monitoring programme is approved hierarchy of responsibilities.
The relevant boards are responsible for by the Audit Committee as part of the annual compliance plan.
setting their investment frameworks that control the practices and procedures governing the management of their investments.
Within In addition, the audit committees and or boards of the Groups major this framework, the Board sets an overall investment risk appetite regulated subsidiaries receive more locally-focused compliance and the subsidiary boards agree their allocation of this risk appetite.
reports which are specific to those companies.
The Investment Management Executive approves the strategic asset allocations and tactical ranges with day-to-day management Internal audit responsibility delegated to Amlin Investments or the subsidiary Amlins internal audit team provides our independent assurance Designated Officers.
The aim is to optimise the returns for the risk over the control environment of the Group on a global basis.
The Head being taken by adopting a multi-asset, multi-manager approach.
of Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee Chairman, aligning with the guidance issued in the CIIA Code July 2013, and Consolidated accounting process also reports to the Chief Executive.
Internal audit has established Amlin has mature internal processes in place with regards to producing a risk-based rolling audit programme for reviewing and evaluating its consolidated accounts.
In addition to scheduled internal reviews of the effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures in place the draft financial statements, a formal process is in place to ensure to manage risk.
Further details regarding the work of internal audit the Group executive reviews the Report and Accounts and confirms during 2014 can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 77. that it believes them to be fair, balanced and understandable.
This process has been discussed and approved by the Audit Committee Assessing our processes which then advises the Board on its robustness.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee and the Risk & Solvency Committee.
The reports review Amlins main processes, including matters that are the regulatory responsibility of the regulated subsidiary boards.
Both Committees performed a specific assessment for this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of internal audit.
The findings are used to help the Board discharge its review responsibilities.
The Audit Committee continues to review the Group whistleblowing process and endorses any changes and enhancements which encourage the Groups wider grievance process to continue working effectively.
Further work on the Groups whistleblowing process is planned for 2015 to ensure it remains fit for purpose and effective.
Amlin plc 76 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Audit Committee report Shonaid Jemmett-Page Committee Chairman Committee membership Introduction The Audit Committee plays an integral role in the monitoring, testing Meetings attended and review of internal controls and the conduct of management and the Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman 6 6 auditors.
This includes reviewing and challenging the significant accounting 1 judgements made in drawing up the financial statements, assessing the Julie Chakraverty 5 6 independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, oversight of all 2 Marty Feinstein 5 6 aspects of the internal audit function and providing independent challenge 3 Oliver Peterken 2 2 and review of Amlins internal control and risk management systems.
Former Member 4 Membership and qualifications Sir Alan Collins 3 3 The biographies of the Audit Committee members are set out on pages 70 to 71.
Julie Chakraverty joined the Committee from 1 March 2014.
Marty Feinstein was unable to attend the April meeting due to illness.
All Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors and, 3.
Oliver Peterken joined the Committee from 1 September 2014. the Board believes, have recent and relevant financial experience as 4.
Sir Alan Collins retired from the Committee on 22 May 2014. required by the Code.
In order to ensure our credentials are kept up to date, we all undertake regular relevant training.
I am a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales, a former financial sector audit partner at KPMG and held a number of senior financial roles Key items in terms of reference at Unilever.
In addition, I am a member of the Financial Reporting Councils Monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements FRC Audit Committee Chair Advisory Group.
Julie Chakraverty started and any formal announcements relating to the Companys her career in financial services at J. P. Morgan, is a former board member financial performance.
This includes advising on whether of the investment bank at UBS and is currently a non-executive director the process behind the production of the Annual Report of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Marty Feinstein is a non-executive and Accounts leads to a document that is fair, balanced director and chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee of Reynolds and understandable American Inc.
He has significant industry experience having previously Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal been chairman and chief executive of Farmers Group Inc. which, by Audit function and agree an effective Group internal audit 2005, was the third-largest property and casualty group in the US, programme with the Head of Internal Audit and a non-executive director of two US insurance companies.
Monitor and review the Group Compliance functions effectiveness, and agree an effective Group Compliance In 2014 we appointed Oliver Peterken to the Committee.
He is a member programme with the Group Head of Compliance of the Institute of Risk Management and has significant insurance industry Review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk experience.
Lead the review of and make recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of external auditors How we work Approve the external auditors remuneration We meet at least four times a year and in 2014 met six times.
In February Review and receive reports on the Groups whistleblowing this year we met to consider the Statement on Internal Controls and and grievance procedures and incidents.
Principal Risks & Uncertainties for the Group, which are contained within this Annual Report.
The Board last reviewed the terms of reference on 26 February 2015, and these can be found in the governance section at www.
The Chairman of the Company, Chief Executive, Chief Finance & Operations Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Head of Internal Audit usually attend all meetings and the Group Head of Compliance attends to present the compliance report.
In addition, I meet with these executives and individually with the Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of Compliance several weeks before each meeting to discuss the agenda and receive updates on any matters of concern to them.
PwC, the Companys external auditor, is invited to every meeting.
In addition, during the year, we meet separately with PwC, the Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of Compliance without executive management being present.
