Corporate governance report Chairmans Letter Richard Davey Chairman Good governance is an important element of the Boards stewardship Comply with the Code of Amlin and as such, I am pleased to present our corporate Amlin is subject to the principles and provisions of the UK governance report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Corporate Governance Code the Code which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website, www.
2014 was a busy year for Amlin with significant changes made to the Groups management structure and incentive arrangements.
The Board The Board considers that Amlin has complied with the provisions believes that these provide a stronger foundation for the development of of the Code through the last financial year.
The required regulatory the Group in the long term, with incentive arrangements better aligned and governance assurances are included throughout this corporate to the Groups strategy.
We also paid particular attention to ensuring that governance report and each Committee report.
Disclosures the plans for these changes were sufficiently robust to minimise the risk against the main principles of the Code as required by the Listing arising from the changes and closely monitored their implementation.
Rules can be found on our website in the governance section The Board was pleased with the improved quality and clarity of Board at www.
reporting achieved in 2014, following the review conducted in 2013.
This has helped increase our focus on the salient matters associated with Amlins strategy, performance and governance.
Yours sincerely, Richard Davey Chairman Amlin plc 66 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Relations with shareholders Leadership Number of Board meetings attended The Chief Executive and the Chief Finance & Operations Officer are Directors attended maximum responsible for maintaining regular communications with shareholders.
Richard Davey 7 7 They are assisted by the Global Head of Investor & Media Relations.
Simon Beale 7 7 The Board receives regular reports from the Global Head of Investor Julie Chakraverty 7 7 & Media Relations which include an overview of the sector and peer 1 Marty Feinstein 5 7 group news, share price performance and market commentary, the Richard Hextall 7 7 composition of the shareholder register, investor relations activity Shonaid Jemmett-Page 7 7 and feedback from investors and analysts.
In addition, an update 2 on recent analyst presentations and investor days is included in the Oliver Peterken 2 2 quarterly CEO report which is presented to the Board and both the Charles Philipps 7 7 Chief Executive and Chief Finance & Operations Officer comment Sir Mark Wrightson 7 7 upon the views of our investors when the Board reviews this report.
Former members 3 Effective communication with shareholders is important and as Brian Carpenter 4 4 such the following investor relations activity took place in 2014: 4 Sir Alan Collins 3 3 telephone briefings for investors and analysts around key Notes: financial announcements 1.
Marty Feinstein was absent from the April and October Board meetings analyst presentations of fulland half-year results.
road-shows following the preliminary and half-year results 2.
O liver Peterken was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014 and attended every meeting he was eligible to attend.
attendance and presentations at investor days organised 3.
Brian Carpenter stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2014. by major securities firms 4.
Sir Alan Collins retired from the Board on 22 May 2014. a special briefing on the acquisition of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP.
Board and Board Committee attendance % During the year Amlin also consulted with its 30 largest investors who hold approximately 70% of the issued share capital, over 2014 proposed new executive incentive arrangements.
The Chairman 97% of the Remuneration Committee met with key shareholders, where requested, to discuss the proposals and any concerns they had and, 95% where appropriate, the Remuneration Policy was amended accordingly.
100% Further details can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 84 to 101.
An additional General Meeting to approve the 96% new arrangements was held on 24 November 2014.
93% In line with the Code, the Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM 2013 to communicate with, and encourage the participation of, investors.
98% All holders of ordinary shares are invited to attend the AGM and to ask questions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Solvency, Remuneration 100% and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
100% For the 2015 AGM, Amlin will send the Notice of Meeting and relevant 95% documentation to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 96% date of the meeting.
For shareholders who have chosen to receive communications electronically, notice will be given of the availability Amlin plc Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee of the documents in the investors section of www.
Remuneration Risk & Solvency Committee Committee The Annual Report, investor presentations, AGM documentation, key financial information, regulatory news, financial calendar and share and dividend information are all available through the investors section Functions of the Board of www.
The Board has a number of key objectives and responsibilities in respect of its stewardship of the Group: setting and overseeing the implementation of the Groups strategy to ensure it delivers value to shareholders, clients and employees ensuring high standards of corporate governance are maintained across the Group ensuring an effective control framework is in place to assess and manage risks, including monitoring executive management in this area providing constructive challenge to the executive management in order to ensure the Groups success managing succession planning for the Board and the Groups executive management.
