Str Gov ater egic r finance eport Audit and Risk Committee report The composition and summary terms of reference of the Audit and iv Share-based payments Risk Committee are set out on pages 44 and 45.
It is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee to address, and report upon, compensation matters including share-based The principal activities of the Audit and Risk Committee through payments made to Directors and employees of the Group.
The Audit the year, and the manner in which it discharged its responsibilities, and Risk Committee considers these in its review of the financial were as follows: statements and receives a report from the external auditor on the Meetings quantification and accounting treatment related to such payments, The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least four times during a year which are explained in note 11 of the accounts.
as part of its standard process.
Meetings of the Committee generally v Future IFRS and UK GAAP developments take place on the dayprior to a Board meeting to maximise the The Audit and Risk Committee has received a report from management efficiency of interaction with the Board.
TheChairman of the Audit and and the auditor and discussed future accounting developments likely Risk Committee reports to the Board, as part of a separate agenda to affect the presentation of the Groups financial statements.
item, on the activities of the Committee.
All Non-executive Directors are invited to attend meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
vi Revenue rebates During the year the Audit and Risk Committee received a The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee alsomeets on a management report from the external auditor regarding the processing regular basis, outside of scheduled committee meetings, with the of fee rebates and its treatment on revenue recognition.
The method Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group Head of Risk Management of accounting for revenue recognition is described more fully on page and Controls, the Group Head of Compliance, the Group Finance 85.
The Audit and Risk Committee also received updates from Director and the external auditors.
management regarding the implementation of a new system to Financial statements automate management fee rebate calculations.
This system was a The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the FY2013 14 annual report, key focus for the external auditor and the Audit and Risk Committee interim results, preliminary results and reports from the external received a management report regarding the controls surrounding auditor, KPMG LLP, on the outcome of its reviews and audits in 2014. the system as well as the processing of management fee rebate calculations and subsequent payments.
Significant accounting matters During the year the Audit and Risk Committee considered key vii Other accounting matters accounting issues, matters and judgements in relation to the During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee received Groups financial statements and disclosures relating to: communications from management and from the external auditor on other accounting matters.
The Committee has also reviewed the i Impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and adoption of the going concern basis in preparing the interim and year intangible assets end consolidated accounts.
As more fully explained in note 15 on page 96, the goodwill balance within the Group relates principally to the acquisition of Emerging UK Corporate Governance Code Markets Management LLC EMM in May 2011.
During the year The Company early-adopted the revised version of the UK Corporate ended 30 June 2014 the Committee critically reviewed the analyses Governance Code, in FY2012 13 which applied to financial years performed by management on goodwill and intangibles and commencing on or after 1 October 2012.
For FY2013 14 the Board agreedthat no impairment to goodwill or intangibles was necessary.
requested that the Audit and Risk Committee advise them on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, ii Assessment of contingent consideration in relation to EMM is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Ashmore acquired a 62.94% equity stake in EMM in May 2011 for necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, which initial and future consideration was payable under an earnout business model and strategy.
provision contingent on the achievement of agreed milestone targets.
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the accounting External auditor valuations of the contingent consideration and assessed it to be nil The external auditor attends all meetings of the Audit and Risk as measured at 31 May 2014.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the performance, objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
iii Seed capital investments The Audit and Risk Committee discusses and agrees the scope of To support product development, from time to time the Group invests the audit plan for the full year and the review plan for the interim in funds where an Ashmore Group entity is the investment manager.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed and considered a report from management on the classification of investments where the The external auditor provides reports at each committee meeting Groups interests represent more than 50% of a seeded fund and the on topics such as the control environment, key accounting matters associated impact on the Groups financial reporting.
The Audit and Risk Committee previously classified as available for sale are now, with effect from also received a comprehensive presentation from the auditor 1 July 2013, classified as fair value through profit and loss thereby demonstrating to its satisfaction how their independence and enabling the Group to further align treatment of recognition of fair objectivity is maintained when providing non-audit services.
value changes of seed capital and consider implementing economic hedges to manage market-related risk volatility on seed capital investments while matching the recognition and presentation of gains and losses on the hedges and the hedged investments.
A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 49 49 Audit and Risk Committee report continued The Audit and Risk Committee has agreed the types of permitted inspection report issued by the FRC in May 2014 and KPMGs and non-permitted non-audit services and those which require response to the findings inspection.
Based on this review the explicit prior approval.
All contracts for non-audit services in excess Committee concurred with managements view that there had been of 25,000 must be notified to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk appropriate focus and challenge of the primary areas of audit risk and Committee and approved by him.
assessed the quality of the audit to be satisfactory.
Accordingly, the Audit and Risk Committee continues to be satisfied with the work During the year the value of non-audit services provided by KPMG of KPMG LLP and that they continue to remain objective and LLP amounted to 0.6 million FY2012 13: 0.6 million.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the non-audit services as a proportion of audit services amount to Board that a resolution be put to shareholders for the re-appointment approximately 120%, the overall quantum of non-audit services is of the auditor, and their remuneration and terms of engagement, not considered to be significant given that Ashmore operates within at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
a highly-regulated market and that a significant proportion of the Internal controls and risk management non-audit services provided relate to the following matters: The Group Head of Risk Management and Control attends each reporting on the half year financial statements: meeting of the Committee and provides reports to each.
These providing regular mandatory assurance reports to the FCA reports have addressed a number of risk-related topics and have as the regulator of Ashmore Investment Management Limited demonstrated how the output of the different Investment, Risk & and Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited : Compliance and Pricing and Valuation Methodology Committees the provision of certain tax compliance services: discussions throughout the period have been effective in highlighting, tracking and contributing towards managing key reporting on internal controls in Ashmores offices in London, market, counterpartyand operational risks.
In particular, in relation Washington D. C. and Singapore as required under ISAE 3402 to operational risk, the Audit and Risk Committee has also reviewed pursuant to investment management industry standards: and and discussed the Groups Top Risk Matrix which continues to serve auditing the controls and procedures employed by the Company as an effective tool to highlight and monitor the principal risks of relating to the production of investment performance figures over the Group and its continued evolution, and reflects changes in the one, three and five-year periods to conform to the investment business profile of the Group and the corresponding impact on management industrys Global Investment Performance Standards.
internal controls and related processes.
The assurance provided by the Group external auditor on the items The Audit and Risk Committee also received an annual report on, and listed above are considered by the Audit and Risk Committee to be conducted a review and evaluation of, the system of internal controls strictly necessary in the interests of the business and, by their nature, and risk management operated within the Company pursuant to the these services could not easily be provided by another professional Financial Reporting Council guidance, Internal Controls: Revised auditing firm.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code formerly the Turnbull The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction Guidance, prior to review by the Board.
services and litigation services may be permitted with the Audit Internal audit and Risk Committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit The Audit and Risk Committee moved to an internally resourced services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise internal audit function in July 2013 replacing Ernst & Young.
The Audit to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any and Risk Committee has received regular reports on the findings circumstance.
During the year there were no circumstances where of the internal auditor and on the proposed programme of reviews.
KPMG LLP was engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.
Public funds audits The Audit and Risk Committee met with and received reports From time to time during the year the Non-executive Directors met from the independent auditors of Ashmores SICAV, US 40-Act with the external and internal auditors without the Executive Directors and Guernsey public funds on the conduct of those audits and being present so as to provide a forum to raise any matters of outcomes from them.
Audit and Risk Committee effectiveness KPMG LLP and its prior entity KPMG Audit plc have acted as the The members of the Committee conducted a review of its auditor to the Company since the IPO in October 2006 and the lead effectiveness and concluded that it was working effectively.
In audit partner rotates every five years to assure independence.
The FY2011 12 an independently facilitated review of the effectiveness Audit and Risk Committee recognises the new requirement in the of the Board, its committees and the Directors was conducted in Code that the external audit contract be put out to tender at least accordance with provision B.
every ten years and therefore expects to conduct a formal tender process in 2017.
Nick Land In order to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee asked detailed questions of key members of management as well as considering the firm-wide audit quality 10 September 2014 50 50 A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4
