Corporate governance In considering Non-executive Director independence, the Board has Chairmans introduction taken into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
The The Group early-adopted the provisions of the revised 2012 UK Board considers Michael Benson, Nick Land, Melda Donnelly, Simon Corporate Governance Code which applied to reporting periods Fraser, Charles Outhwaite and Dame Anne Pringle to be independent.
beginning on or after 1 October 2012 in the previous financial Nick Land is the Senior Independent Director.
References herein to the Code are to the 2012 During the year under review the Group complied with the Code version of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group has requirement that at least half of the Board consist of independent been in compliance with the Code and its predecessor versions Directors excluding the Chairman.
since Admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange on 17 October 2006, except where the Directors consider that in Following changes to the UK Listing Rules on 16 May 2014 requiring particular limited circumstances, departure may be justified a company with a Premium listing and a controlling shareholder, in and explained.
this instance one who controls at least 30% of the companys voting rights, to enter into a relationship agreement the agreement, the No departures from the Code occurred during the year Company has entered into such an agreement with Mark Coombs, under review.
The Board will report on compliance with the This report describes the Groups corporate governance agreement for the financial reporting period ending on 30 June 2015. arrangements, explaining how it has applied the principles The Board meets a minimum of six times during the year to review of the Code.
financial performance and strategy and to follow the formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
Comprehensive Board papers, Michael Benson comprising an agenda and formal reports and briefing papers, are Chairman sent to Directors in advance of each meeting.
Throughout their period in office, Directors are continually updated by means of written and verbal reports from senior executives and external advisers on the Groups business, and the competitive and regulatory environments Directors in which it operates, as well as on legal, compliance, corporate The Board of Directors comprises two Executive Directors and six governance, corporate social responsibility and other relevant matters.
The two Executive Directors are Mark Coombs, the Chief Executive Officer, and Tom Shippey, the Group In addition to its formal business, the Board received a number of Finance Director.
The Non-executive Directors are Michael Benson, briefings and presentations from executive management during the Chairman: Nick Land, Senior Independent Director: Melda Donnelly, year covering a wide range of topics across the range of the Groups Simon Fraser, Charles Outhwaite and Dame Anne Pringle.
All Directors have access to independent professional exception of Tom Shippey, who joined the Board on 25 November advice, if required, at the Companys expense as well as to the advice 2013 following the resignation of Graeme Dell on the same date, and services of the Company Secretary.
New Directors appointed all Directors served throughout the year.
The Board has a schedule to the Board will receive advice as to the legal and other duties and of matters specifically reserved to it for decision and approval, obligations arising from the role of a director of a UK listed company which include, but are not limited to: within a full, formal and tailored induction programme.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for the Groups long-term commercial objectives and strategy: maintaining an adequate continuing education programme, reminding major acquisitions, disposals and investments: the Directors of their duties and obligations on a regular basis, the Groups annual and interim reports and financial statements: ensuring good information flows between the Board, its committees interim dividend and recommendation of final dividend: and management and assisting with Directors continuing annual budgets and forecast updates: professional development needs.
significant capital expenditure: and The Companys Nominations Committee considers the appointment the effectiveness of internal controls.
and replacement of Directors subject to the rules set out in the Articles, a summary of which is set out below.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman Under the Articles, the minimum number of Directors shall be two is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board, while the Chief and the maximum shall be nine.
Directors may be appointed by the Executive Officer is responsible for execution of strategy and for the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed day-to-day management of the Group.
by the Board must offer himself herself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following his appointment but he is not taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Biographical details of the Directors are given on page 41 42 42 A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 Str Gov ater egic r finance eport The Directors to retire by rotation must be those who held office at Annual performance evaluation the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and did not The Code recommends that the Board should undertake a formal retire at either of them or if they have held office with the Company annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the and individual Directors and that an externally facilitated evaluation Annual General Meeting.
The office of Director shall be vacated in should be undertaken at least once every three years.
An independent other circumstances, including where i that Director resigns or is externally facilitated evaluation was undertaken by Condign Board asked to resign: ii they are or have been suffering from mental Consulting which has no other connection with the Company in ill-health: iii they are absent without permission of the Board from the reporting year FY2011 12.
For the year under review the Board meetings of the Board for six consecutive months: iv they become conducted an internal evaluation of its own performance and that of its bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: or v they are committees and individual Directors led by the Chairman and assisted prohibited by law from being a Director.
Meetings were held between each Director and the Chairman in which issues and developments over the Notwithstanding these provisions the Board has adopted provision year were discussed and performance was considered by reference to B.
7.1 of the Code and, with the exception of Melda Donnelly who will the objectives of the Board and its committees.
The issues raised not be seeking re-election and who will retire from the Board at the during this process were discussed by the Board together.
The conclusion of the meeting, all Directors will retire and seek re-election Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive at the Annual General Meeting on 30 October 2014.
The new Listing Director also evaluated the performance of the Chairman and gave Rules require that the election re-election of independent directors be feedback which was also reflected in the Board discussion.
by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well as by a majority of votes cast by all shareholders.
These rules will apply to The Board believes that, following the completion of the performance the Ashmore Group plc Annual General Meeting that will be held on evaluation, the performance of the Directors continues to be effective 30 October 2014. and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Powers of the Directors Board and committee attendance Subject to the Companys Articles, the Companies Acts and any The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
of the Company is managed by the Board, who may exercise all Any Directors who are not members of Board committees are also powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
invited to attend meetings of such committees.
Board and committee attendance Nominations Audit and Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings scheduled between 1 July 2013 and 30 June 2014 7 3 4 5 Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% 1 Mark Coombs 100% 1, 2 Tom Shippey 100% Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% Melda Donnelly 100% 100% 100% Simon Fraser 100% 100% 100% 100% 3 Charles Outhwaite 100% 100% 100% 3 Dame Anne Pringle 100% 100% 1.
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board committee meetings as required but do not attend as members of those committees.
The Group Finance Director attends all meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Tom Shippey was appointed to the Board on 25 November 2013 and has attended all meetings since that date.
Graeme Dell served on the Board between 1 July 2013 and 25 November 2013 and attended all Board meetings held in this period.
Charles Outhwaite was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee on 30 October 2013 and Dame Anne Pringle was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 30 October 2013 and they have attended all meetings of these committees since that date.
A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 43 43 Corporate governance continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK plc Board of Directors plc Remuneration Committee Responsible for overall strategy, management and control Determines compensation for Code Staff and reviews compensation for Control Staff plc Audit and Risk Committee Separate detailed terms of reference in line with corporate governance best practice plc Executive Directors Management Committees Auditors Responsible for overseeing business, investments and internal controls External: Independent assurance via audit of Group Financial Statements and audit Investment Committees Operating Committee of internal control procedures under ISAE 3402 Systems and Controls Review Risk and Compliance Committee Committee Pricing Oversight Committee Pricing Methodology and Valuation Internal: Foreign Exchange Management Committee Committee Independent assurance via audit directed at specific departmental Product Committee control procedures IT Steering Group Global Investment Performance Standards Committee Senior Management Responsible for day-to-day management Board committees Audit and Risk Committee The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
Activities The Audit and Risk Committee met four times during the All of these committees operate within written terms of reference, year.
The activities of the Audit and Risk Committee are which are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference of the described on pages 49-50 in the separate Audit and Risk committees are reviewed annually consistent with changes in Committee report.
During the year under review the Audit and Risk Committee The chairman of each committee reports regularly to the Board.
comprised the following Non-executive Directors and was Each of the committees is authorised, at the Companys expense, to fully compliant with the Code: obtain external legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying Nick Land Chairman out its duties.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to Melda Donnelly attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and Simon Fraser external advisers, may be invited to attend as appropriate.
Charles Outhwaite was appointed to the Audit and Current membership of the committees is shown in the relevant Risk Committee on 30 October 2013. sections below.
The composition of these committees is reviewed annually, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Nominations Committee.
The terms of reference for the committee take into account the requirements of the Code and are available for inspection at the registered office and at the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on the Company website at www.
com 44 44 A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 Str Gov ater egic r finance eport The Board is satisfied that for the year under review and thereafter The Audit and Risk Committee also has responsibility for reviewing Nick Land, Melda Donnelly, Simon Fraser and Charles Outhwaite had the Companys arrangements on whistleblowing, ensuring that and have recent and relevant commercial and financial knowledge appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to and experience to satisfy the provisions of the Code.
Nick Land raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable and Melda Donnelly are Chartered Accountants, Simon Fraser has subsequent follow-up action.
previously served as Global Chief Investment Officer with Fidelity The Audit and Risk Committee has the authority to seek any International and Charles Outhwaite is a corporate financier information it requires to perform its duties from any employee of specialising in the investment management industry.
the Company and to obtain outside legal or other independent A report on the activities of the Audit and Risk Committee is set professional advice as appropriate.
The number of Audit and Risk Committee meetings and their The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee include: attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 43.
Representatives of KPMG LLP, the Group Finance Director, Group monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, Head of Risk and Group Internal Auditor attend each meeting as any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial a matter of practice and presentations are made by the executive performance and any significant financial issues and judgements management as required.
contained in them: Remuneration Committee reviewing the Groups draft annual financial statements and interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board Activities and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: The Remuneration Committee met five times during the reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups year.
The Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of on Remuneration on pages 57 to 69 describe the various auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement matters which have been the principal areas of focus for the and proposed fees for the audit: Remuneration Committee in FY2013 14. making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to During the year under review the Remuneration Committee shareholders to approve the re-appointment of the external auditor: comprised the following Non-executive Directors and was fully reviewing the level and amount of external auditor non-audit compliant with the Code: services: reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management Nick Land Chairman until 30 October 2013 systems, reporting to the Board on the results of this review Simon Fraser Chairman from 30 October 2013 and receiving updates on key risks and controls: Michael Benson overseeing and challenging the day-to-day risk management and Charles Outhwaite and Dame Anne Pringle were appointed oversight arrangements of the executive and the design and to the Remuneration Committee on 30 October 2013. execution of stress and scenario testing: overseeing and challenging due diligence on risk issues relating The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee include: to material transactions and strategic proposals that are subject to approval by the Board: reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: considering and approving the remit of the risk management function and ensuring that it has adequate independence: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders: reviewing the Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference, carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting ensuring that members of the executive management of the the satisfactory operation of the Committee: and Company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and that remuneration incentives are reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
compatible with the Companys risk policies and systems: The Audit and Risk Committee has requested and received reports from making recommendations to the Board as to the Companys management to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms of reference.
framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and to determine their total individual remuneration packages including bonuses, A report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is incentive payments and share options or other share awards: included in the Groups reporting on remuneration on pages ensuring that a significant proportion of Executive Directors 56 to 69.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to corporate Committee take into account the requirements of the Code and individual performance and that performance conditions are and are available for inspection at the registered office, at stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on the the Company: and Company website at www.
com ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 45 45 Corporate governance continued The number of Remuneration Committee meetings and their Relations with shareholders attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 43.
In The Company places great importance on communication with its addition, and in accordance with the terms of reference, the members investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means of of the Remuneration Committee were also consulted on a range of regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts issues during the year, including specific matters related to recruitment.
and the financial press throughout the year.
Nominations Committee Annual and interim reports and trading updates are widely distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups Activities performance.
These documents are also made available on the The Committee met three times during the year.
The Companys website where formal regulatory information service principal items considered at the meetings were the sourcing announcements are also posted.
The Chief Executive Officer and of new, and succession planning for, Non-executive Directors Group Finance Director make regular reports to the Board on investor and the composition of existing Board committees.
relations and on specific discussions with major shareholders and the Board receives copies of all research published on the Company.
During the year under review the Nominations Committee comprised the following Non-executive Directors and was fully The 2014 Annual General Meeting will be attended by all Directors, and compliant with the Code: the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions.
Private investors Michael Benson Chairman are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting.
Nick Land Melda Donnelly The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they Simon Fraser have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director has All members of the Nominations Committee served failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Company continues to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and any new Directors.
The terms of reference for the Committee take into account The Group will announce via a regulatory information service the number the requirements of the Code and are available for of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and inspection at the registered office and at the Annual General any other general meetings.
Meeting and can also be found on the Company website Risk management and internal control systems www.
com In accordance with the principles of the Code, the Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee include: systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems and their reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, review are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure knowledge and experience of the Board and its committees: to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviewing annually the time required from each Non-executive Director, using performance evaluation to assess whether the Within the Groups overarching corporate governance framework, Non-executive Director is giving sufficient commitment to through which the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over the role: appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, an giving full consideration to succession planning in the course of internal control framework has been established, against which the its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities Company is able to assess the effectiveness of its risk management facing the Company and what skills and expertise are needed and internal control systems.
The Groups system of internal control is on the Board in the future: and embedded within its routine operations, and a strong control culture is ensuring that on appointment to the Board, Non-executive combined with clear management responsibility and accountabilities Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly for individual controls.
The internal control framework provides an what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
principal risks, and has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The process During the year the activities of the Nominations Committee have is regularly reviewed by the Board, and accords with the guidance in included reviewing the requirements for potential independent the document Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board, proposals Combined Code, October 2005 Turnbull Guidance published by the for re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting, and Financial Reporting Council.
reviewing its terms of reference.
For the recent Board recruitments the Nominations Committee engaged Blackwood Recruitment LLP The Executive Directors oversee the key risks and controls and the risk who have no connection to the Group.
management process on a day-to-day basis, and have put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and The number of Nominations Committee meetings and their delegation of authority.
attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 43.
46 46 A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 Str Gov ater egic r finance eport The Groups Risk and Compliance Committee RCC, which meets oversight of the valuation methodologies used for clients fund investments that cannot be readily externally priced is the monthly, is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management responsibility of the Groups Pricing Methodology and Valuation and internal control environment and for assessing the impact of the Committee PMVC which meets monthly to review the current Groups ongoing activities on its regulatory and operational exposures.
valuation methodology for each of these investments and to The RCC is chaired by the Group Head of Risk Management and propose an updated valuation methodology where appropriate: Control the other members are the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Compliance, the Group Head of IT, regular senior management systems and controls reviews are Operations, Performance, GIRC and Client Reporting, the Group Head undertaken by the Group Finance Director with the Group Head of Legal and Transaction Management, the Group Head of Distribution of Compliance, the Group Head of Human Resources, and the and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Responsibility for risk Group Head of Risk Management and Control in which the Chief identification is shared amongst these senior management personnel, Executive Officer participates at least annually.
These reviews include evaluation of the potential impact and likelihood of identified risks with each such individual being responsible for day-to-day control of risk and possible new risk areas: in their business area.
the Group Compliance function, whose responsibility is to ensure There are established policies and procedures to enable the Board, that the Group at all times meets its regulatory obligations, and to through its regular meetings, to monitor the effectiveness of the risk integrate regulatory compliance procedures and best practices within management and internal control systems, which cover all significant the Group, undertakes an ongoing compliance monitoring programme identified internal and external strategic, operational, financial, covering all the relevant areas of the Groups operations, to seek to compliance and other risks, including the Groups ability to comply identify any breach of compliance with applicable financial services with all applicable laws, regulations and clients requirements.
regulation, which includes real-time investment restrictions monitoring of client mandate requirements.
Results of the compliance monitoring The Board receives regular financial and other management information programme are reported to the RCC in support of the overall risk related to the control of expenditure against budget and the making of management and internal control framework: investments, and for monitoring the Groups business and its performance, and regular compliance and risk reports.
a matrix of top risks identifies key business, operational, financial compliance and conduct risks, and considers the likelihood of those The main features of the Groups risk management and internal control risks crystallising and the resultant impact.
The inherent risk within systems are as follows: each business activity has been identified, with the adequacy and Policies mitigating effect of existing processes being assessed to determine core values and policies together comprising the Groups high-level a current residual risk level for each such activity.
On the basis that principles and controls, with which all staff are expected to comply: further mitigants may be employed over time, a target residual risk for each activity after one to two years has been defined and manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business units, progress to target is formally tracked: with procedures for reporting weaknesses and for monitoring key risk indicator KRI statistics are reported to and analysed by the corrective action: RCC.
The KRIs indicate trends in the Groups risk profile, assist in the a code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting reduction of errors and potential financial losses and seek to prevent compliance therewith: and exposure by proactively dealing with a potential risk situation before a defined operational framework and organisational structure with an event actually occurs: appropriate delegation of authority, segregation of duties with strong financial controls are maintained to ensure accurate accountability that has regard to acceptable levels of risk.
accounting for transactions, appropriate authorisation limits to Processes contain exposures, and reliability of data processing and integrity a planning framework is maintained, which incorporates a Board of information generated: approved strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit: Board members receive monthly management information including an in-depth annual budget is reviewed and approved by the Board and accounts and other relevant reports, which highlight actual financial is regularly subject to update through a formal re-forecasting process: performance against budget forecast and prior year period: regular reviews of the financial and operating performance of the there are well-defined procedures governing the appraisal and Company and its subsidiaries are undertaken by the Groups approval of corporate investments, including seeding of funds and Operating Committee to focus on delivery of the Groups key purchase of own shares, with detailed investment and divestment strategic objectives: approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular post-investment reviews: detailed investment reports are prepared and discussed at each oversight and management of the Groups foreign currency cash of the sub-committee meetings of the Groups Investment flows and balance sheet exposures are the responsibility of the FX Committees, which take place weekly or monthly depending Management Committee which determines the appropriate level on investment theme, with follow-up actions agreed and of hedging required and appropriate accounting treatment: implemented within a strict operational framework: A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 47 47 Corporate governance continued the Group has secure information and communication systems Ashmore has minority interests in three joint ventures associates which which are appropriately configured and maintained.
Oversight and operate risk management and internal control systems that are not direction is provided by the Groups IT Steering Group, which dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of this statement.
implements the IT strategy and approves and governs all IT projects: These are: the development of new products, consideration of material Ashmore CCSC Fund Management Company Limited changes to existing funds, and the restructuring of funds and Everbright Ashmore Hong Kong Limited products is the responsibility of the Product Committee and forms VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited an important part of the Groups business in responding to clients needs and changes in the financial markets: and By order of the Board: a Global Investment Performance Standards GIPS Committee which acts as the primary decision-making body within the Group Michael Perman in relation to any changes to the existing set of composites, and Company Secretary approving the creation of new composites.
10 September 2014 Verification the external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the annual financial statements, the half year review and also independently and objectively review the approach of managementto reporting operating results and financial condition: the Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, receives half-yearly updates from the Groups external auditors which include any control matters that have come to their attention: annual control reports are reviewed independently by the Groups external auditors pursuant to the International Standards on Assurance Engagements 3402 ISAE 3402 : the internal audit function undertakes a programme of reviews of systems, processes and procedures as determined by the Audit and Risk Committee, reporting the results together with their advice and recommendations, and assisting in the presentation of their findings to the Committee.
The internal audit function, until July 2013 was provided under an outsourcing arrangement by Ernst & Young but since that date has been internally resourced by the Company.
Confirmation Through the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board has conducted an annual review and assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, and has identified no significant failings or weaknesses during this review.
In conducting this review, the Board has considered the periodic reports on compliance and risk matters, including reports provided by the internal audit function, and the annual report on risk management and internal control processes from the RCC.
These reports were received throughout the year up to the latest practicable date prior to the approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board is satisfied that appropriate planned actions continue to be effective in improving controls as the Group develops, and its overall assessment of the control framework continues to be satisfactory.
48 48 A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4
