| 64 64 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Board of directors Board of directors We have a strong, experienced and diverse Board with a good balance of skills 05 01 06 02 03 04 Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 65 65 It will be a privilege to chair Avivas Board.
Michael Hawker, AM Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director 02.
Gay Huey Evans Group Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director 03.
Michael Mire Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director 04.
Bob Stein Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director 05.
Scott Wheway Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director 06.
Patricia Cross 10 Independent Non-Executive Director | 66 66 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Board of directors continued John McFarlane Mark has over 25 years of operational and and was formerly a partner at Linklaters Chairman executive experience in the insurance & Paines.
1947 industry across life assurance, general On 12 September 2014, it was announced insurance and asset management, in that John McFarlane would step down as John was appointed to the Board in both mature and growth markets.
He has Chairman of the Aviva Group.
John will September 2011 and became Chairman extensive experience of leading major remain as Chairman of the Aviva Group on 1 July 2012.
He chairs the Nomination international insurance companies and has until the conclusion of the 2015 AGM, at Committee.
He is Chairman of FirstGroup an excellent track record as a focused and which point Sir Adrian Montague will be plc transport operator, and is a Noninspirational business leader.
appointed in his place, subject to his reExecutive Director of Barclays plc banking, election.
Westfield Corporation retail mall developer Tom Stoddard and operator and Old Oak Holdings Ltd Chief Financial Officer Glyn Barker financial holding company.
1966 Independent Non-Executive Director Previously, John was Chief Executive b.
1953 Officer of Australia and New Zealand Tom joined Aviva in April 2014 as Chief Banking Group Ltd banking, Executive Financial Officer and a member of the Aviva Glyn was appointed to the Board in Director at Standard Chartered plc Group Executive.
He has worked primarily February 2012 and is Chairman of the Audit banking, head of Citicorp Investment Bank as an investment banker, including advising Committee and a member of the Risk and Ltd and later head of Citicorp and Citibank Aviva.
He also has experience as a corporate Nomination Committees.
He is currently in the United Kingdom and Ireland lawyer and an asset based lender.
From Chairman of Irwin Mitchell law firm, a banking.
Formerly a Non-Executive Director 2008 to 2014, Tom was Senior Managing Non-Executive Director of Transocean of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Director, Head of Global Financial Limited offshore drilling, Berkeley Group banking and Capital Radio plc media and Institutions Advisory, at the investment and Holdings plc construction and a trustee of a director and council member of the advisory firm Blackstone Advisory Partners English National Opera.
He was formerly London Stock Exchange.
He was also a NonLP with responsibility for successfully driving Vice Chairman, UK of Executive Director of the Securities Blackstones business of advising banks,  LLP with Association UK securities regulator, the insurers and other financial institutions responsibility for leading the executive team Auditing Practices Board auditing regulator globally on M&A and restructuring.
for Europe, Middle East, Africa and India and the Business Council of Australia.
He He also held senior investment banking region following a long and successful has extensive experience in banking, positions at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette career with the firm.
Glyn has extensive including investment, corporate and retail investment company and its successor, experience as a business leader and a banking, and in general management, Credit Suisse financial services holding trusted adviser to FTSE100 companies and insurance, strategy, risk and cultural change.
company, where he led the global their boards on a wide variety of corporate On 12 September 2014, it was insurance group as Managing Director.
He possesses a deep announced that John McFarlane would step also practiced corporate and securities law understanding of accounting and regulatory down as Chairman of the Aviva Group.
with Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP U. S. law issues together with in-depth transactional John will remain as Chairman of the Aviva firm from 1992 to 1994. and financial services experience.
Group until the conclusion of the 2015 AGM, at which point Sir Adrian Montague Sir Adrian Montague, CBE Patricia Cross will be appointed in his place, subject to his Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director re-election.
1959 Mark Wilson Sir Adrian was appointed to the Board Patricia joined the Board in December 2013.
Group Chief Executive Officer in January 2013 and became Senior She chairs the Remuneration Committee b.
He is and is a member of the Audit and a member of the Audit, Governance and Nomination Committees.
She is currently a Mark joined the Board in December 2012 Nomination Committees.
He is currently Non-Executive Director of Macquarie Group and became the Group Chief Executive Chairman of 3i Group plc private equity, Limited banking and Macquarie Bank Ltd Officer on 1 January 2013.
He was formerly The Manchester Airport Group plc and The banking and Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer and President of AIA Point of Care Foundation charity and a Commonwealth Superannuation Group insurance which he repositioned Non-Executive Director of Skanska AB Corporation Federal Government pension into the leading pan-Asian insurance construction and Cellmark Holdings AB fund.
company, improved its market valuation, forest products.
She is a Director of the Grattan Institute successfully navigated the company through He was formerly Chairman of Anglian Australian think tank and an Ambassador the global financial crisis and prepared it for Water Group Ltd utilities, Friends Provident for the Australian Indigenous Education an IPO.
The company emerged as a stronger plc life insurance, British Energy Group plc Foundation charity.
Patricia was formerly a and significantly more valuable independent utilities, Michael Page International plc Non-Executive Director of Qantas Airways entity, leading to the largest IPO in recruitment, and Cross London Rail Links Ltd airline and National Australia Bank Ltd corporate history in Hong Kong.
Ltd Crossrail and was formerly Deputy NAB financial services.
She was a NonMark was previously Chief Executive Chairman of Network Rail Ltd railway Executive Director at Wesfarmers Ltd Officer of AXA China and Chief Executive network provider, Partnerships UK plc conglomerate including insurance, Officer of AXA South East Asia insurance.
public private partnership and UK Green Suncorp-Metway Ltd insurance and He also held a number of senior Investment Bank plc investment bank.
banking and AMP Ltd wealth management positions at National Mutual He was also previously Chief Executive management and life insurance.
insurance in New Zealand, where he of the Treasury Taskforce and a trustee She was formerly Chairman of the Qantas progressed through many of the major of Historic Royal Palaces.
Sir Adrian has Superannuation Fund pension fund, business functions, gaining a deep and significant experience in the financial Deputy Chairman of Victorias Transport broad knowledge of the business.
services industry and in government and Accident Commission statutory insurer, regulatory circles.
He is a qualified solicitor Australia and served in honorary Australian Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 67 67 Government roles including the Australian Gay Huey Evans including industrial policy and social security Financial Centre Forum and the Financial Independent Non-Executive Director reform.
Michael has extensive experience of Sector Advisory Council, as well as on b.
1954 advising companies on the implementation numerous charities.
She was also Executive of transformation programmes and also General Manager, wholesale banking and Gay was appointed to the Board in October has an in-depth understanding of the finance at NAB, and held a number of 2011, is a member of the Risk, financial services sector.
senior executive positions at Chase Remuneration and Nomination Committees, Manhattan Bank and Banque Nationale fide and chaired the Governance Committee Bob Stein Paris banking.
She is currently a NonIndependent Non-Executive Director Patricia has significant experience as Executive Director of ConocoPhillips b.
1949 both an Executive and Non-Executive exploration and production, Bank Itau BBA Director across a wide range of financial International Ltd banking, and the Financial Bob was appointed to the Board in January services and other regulated industries in the Reporting Council.
2013 and is a member of the Nomination, U. S. Europe and Australia.
Gay is also a member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
He is management board of the panel of finance currently a Non-Executive Director and Chair Michael Hawker, AM experts of the Panel of Recognised of the Audit Committee of Assurant, Inc US Independent Non-Executive Director International Market Experts in Finance and specialty insurance, is a Director and Chair b.
1959 a Trustee of Wellbeing of Women UK.
She of the Audit Committee of Resolution Life was formerly Vice Chairman of the Board of Holdings, Inc. and is a trustee emeritus of Michael was appointed to the Board in International Swaps and Derivatives the Board of trustees of the US Actuarial January 2010 and is Chairman of the Risk Association, Inc. ISDA, Vice Chairman, Foundation.
Committee and a member of the Audit and Investment Banking & Investment Bob spent most of his working life at Nomination Committees.
He is currently Management at Barclays Capital banking, Ernst & Young accountancy in the US, Non-Executive Director of Macquarie Group a Non-Executive Director of The London where he held a number of managing Limited, Macquarie Bank Limited banking Stock Exchange Group plc stock exchange partner roles including actuarial, insurance and Washington H Soul Pattinson and and a trustee of The Wigmore Hall Trust and financial services practices in the US and Company Ltd investment.
Prior to that, Gay held senior globally, culminating in being Managing Independent Non-Executive Chairman of management positions at Citi Alternative Partner, Global Actuarial Practice.
the Australian Rugby Union, Non-Executive Investments investments and Bankers Trust Bob brings significant accounting and Director of SANZAR Pty Ltd and is NonCompany banking.
financial services experience to the Board.
Executive of the International Rugby Board Gay has over 30 years of experience rugby union.
With respect to medical within the financial services industry, having Scott Wheway research, Michael is Chairman of The held key positions in government and in a Independent Non-Executive Director George Institute for Global Health research number of global financial and banking b.
He was formerly Chief Executive institutions and the Financial Services and Managing Director of Insurance Authority regulatory predecessor to the Scott was appointed to the Board Australia Group insurance, Group Chief PRA and FCA.
in December 2007, is Chairman of the Executive of business and consumer Gay will retire from the Board from the Governance Committee and is a member of banking at Westpac Banking Corporation conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He banking and Chairman of the Insurance is currently a Non-Executive Director of Council of Australia insurance Michael Mire Santander UK plc retail bank.
Independent Non-Executive Director He was formerly Chief Executive Officer Michael brings to the Board a wealth of b.
1948 of Best Buy Europe retail services, Director knowledge and experience gained over a of The Boots Company plc now known as long career in the banking and insurance Michael was appointed to the Board in The Boots Company Ltd pharmacy, industries, in both executive and nonSeptember 2013 and is a member of Managing Director and Retail Director of executive roles in Europe, Asia and Australia.
the Governance, Risk and Nomination Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots plc and Committees.
He is currently the Senior Director of the British Retail Consortium Independent Director at the Care Quality trade association for the UK retail industry.
Commission the UK Government body He has previously held a number of senior which regulates the quality of health and executive positions at Tesco plc, including adult social care and gives ratings to all Chief Executive of Tesco in Japan.
hospitals, whether public or private, Scott has a wealth of business adult social care homes and services, experience in the retail sector and his and primary medical care practices.
understanding of customer priorities has Michael was a Senior Partner at been greatly beneficial in driving the McKinsey & Company consultancy where customer agenda and excellence in he worked for more than 30 years until July customer service within the business.
Initially an Associate in the financial services practice at McKinsey, he became a Partner in 1984 and Senior Partner in 1991 and his career focused on financial services, retail and transformation programmes.
He started his career at Rothschild financial advisors in 1970 as an Analyst and then a Foreign Exchange Dealer and spent three years seconded to the Central Policy Review Staff now the Number 10 Policy Unit to work on major initiatives
