| 86 86 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report continued and incentive plans.
At 31 December 2014 discretion of the participants.
No person Other statutory the issued ordinary share capital totalled holds securities in the Company carrying information 2,950,487,340 shares of 25 pence each and special rights with regard to control of the the issued preference share capital totalled Company.
The Company is not aware of The directors submit their Annual report and 200,000,000 shares of 1 each.
any agreements between holders of accounts for Aviva plc, together with the Accordingly, the issued and paid-up securities that may result in restrictions in consolidated financial statements of the ordinary share capital constituted 79% of the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Aviva group of companies, for the year the Companys total issued share capital There are a number of agreements that ended 31 December 2014. and the issued preference share capital take effect, alter or terminate upon a The directors report required under the constituted 21% of the Companys total change of control of the Company, such as Companies Act 2006 comprises this issued share capital at 31 December 2014. commercial contracts and joint venture Directors and corporate governance report: All the Companys shares in issue are fully agreements.
None are considered to be the Directors remuneration report: the paid up and the ordinary and preference significant in terms of their potential impact following disclosures in the Our people and shares have a Premium and Standard listing on the business of the Group as a whole.
All communities section of the Strategic report: respectively on the London Stock Exchange.
of the Companys employee share incentive Environment and climate change for The Company is listed on the New York plans contain provisions relating to a change disclosure of our greenhouse gas Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of of control.
Outstanding awards and options emissions American Depositary Shares, referenced to would normally vest and become Increasing diversity and inclusion for ordinary shares, under a depositary exercisable on a change of control, subject details of our policy on employment of agreement with Citibank.
Details of the to the satisfaction of any performance disabled persons Companys share capital and shares under conditions and pro rata reduction as may be Engaging with our people for details of option at 31 December 2014 and shares applicable under the rules of the employee employee involvement issued during the year are given in notes 31 share incentive plans.
Details of our policy on hedging are in note The rights and obligations attaching to Authority to purchase own shares 59 and details of likely future developments the Companys ordinary shares and are throughout the Strategic report.
preference shares, together with the powers At the Companys 2014 AGM, shareholders The management report required under of the Companys directors, are set out in renewed the Companys authorities to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
5R the Companys Articles of Association, make market purchases of up to 294 million comprises the Strategic report, Shareholder copies of which can be obtained from ordinary shares, up to 100 million 8% information which includes the risks Companies House and the Companys preference shares and up to 100 million relating to our business, and details of 3 website at www.
These authorities material acquisitions and disposals made by were not used during the year or up to the relations corporate-governance articles-ofthe Group during the year in note 4.
This association, or by writing to the Group date of this report.
At the 2015 AGM, Directors and corporate governance report shareholders will be asked to renew these Company Secretary.
The powers of the fulfills the requirements of the corporate Companys directors are subject to relevant authorities for another year and the governance statement under Disclosure and resolution will once again propose a legislation and, in certain circumstances Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. including in relation to the issue or buying maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which the Company can purchase of back by the Company of its shares, are Results subject to authority being given to the less than 10% of the issued ordinary share The Groups results for the year are shown capital.
Details are contained in the Notice directors by shareholders in General in the consolidated income statement.
The Company held no treasury shares during the year or up to the date of A General Meeting will be held on 26 Dividends March 2015 to approve the proposed this report.
The directors are recommending a final acquisition of Friends Life.
At this meeting dividend of 12.25 pence per ordinary share shareholders will be asked to authorise the Major shareholdings 2013: 9.4 pence, which, together with the directors to allot ordinary shares of 25 pence interim dividend of 5.85 pence per ordinary each up to an aggregate nominal amount The table below shows the holdings of share paid on 17 November 2014 2013: major shareholders in the Companys issued of 276,250,000 in relation to the 5.6 pence, produces a total dividend for the acquisition.
Details are contained in the ordinary share capital in accordance with year of 18.1 pence per ordinary share the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at Notice of General Meeting.
The total cost of At the 2015 AGM, shareholders will be 31 December 2014 and 3 March 2015. ordinary dividends paid in 2014 was 449 asked to renew the directors authority to million 2013: 429 million.
Subject to allot new securities.
Details are contained in shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM, the Shareholding interest the 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting final dividend for 2014 will become due and At 31 December 2014 At 3 March 2015 Notice of AGM.
payable on 15 May 2015 to all holders of Notified Nature of Notified Nature of With the exception of restrictions on the ordinary shares on the Register of Members Shareholder holdings holding holdings holding transfer of ordinary shares under the at the close of business on 9 April 2015 BlackRock, Above Above Companys employee share incentive plans, 1 approximately five business days later for Inc 5% Indirect 5% Indirect whilst the shares are subject to the rules of holders of the Companys American 1 Holding includes holdings of subsidiaries.
the plans, there are no restrictions on the Depositary Receipts.
Details of any dividend transfer rights attaching to the Companys waivers are disclosed in note 33.
Directors ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company.
Share capital and control The directors as at the date of this report are Where, under an employee share shown together with their biographical incentive plan operated by the Company, The issued ordinary share capital of the details above.
During the year and up to the participants are the beneficial owners of Company was increased by 3,547,718 date of this report, the following Board shares but not the registered owners, the ordinary shares during the year which were appointments, resignations and retirements voting rights are normally exercised at the allotted under the Groups employee share occurred: Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 87 87 Tom Stoddard appointed Group CFO on Financial instruments Related party transactions 28 April 2014 Patrick Regan resigned as Group CFO Group companies use financial instruments Details of related party transactions are with effect from 28 March 2014. to manage certain types of risks, including disclosed in note 61 which is incorporated those relating to credit, foreign currency into this report by reference.
The Chairman and Gay Huey Evans have exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, also tendered their resignation which will and equity and property prices.
Details of Articles of Association take effect from the conclusion of the AGM the objectives and management of these on 29 April 2015. instruments are contained in the Risk and Unless expressly stated to the contrary in the Under the Companys Articles of Capital management section, the Article of Association, the Companys Association, the Board can appoint Shareholder information section and an Articles of Association may only be additional directors or appoint a director to companies to such risks is contained in note amended by special resolution of the fill a casual vacancy.
The new director must 58. shareholders.
The Companys current retire at the first AGM following their Articles of Association were adopted on 3 appointment and can only continue as a Political donations May 2012.
Shareholders will be asked to director if they are elected by shareholders adopt new Articles of Association at the at the AGM.
The Board has announced its At the 2014 AGM, shareholders passed a 2015 AGM and further details can be found intention to appoint Andy Briggs as an resolution, on a precautionary basis, to in the Notice of AGM.
Executive Director and Sir Malcolm authorise the Company and its subsidiaries Williamson as Senior Independent Nonto make political donations and or incur Going concern Executive Director following the successful political expenditure as such terms are completion of the proposed acquisition of defined in sections 362 to 379 of the The Groups business activities, together Friends Life and subject to regulatory Companies Act 2006, in each case in with the factors likely to affect its future approval.
Their appointment is expected to amounts not exceeding 100,000 in development, performance and position are commence after the 2015 AGM and they aggregate.
As the authority granted will set out in the Strategic report.
The will therefore first stand for election by expire at the 2015 AGM, renewal of this performance review includes the Risk and shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
authority will be sought at this years AGM.
In addition, Further details are available in the Notice of the financial statements sections include Directors interests and indemnity AGM.
The definitions of political donations notes on the Groups borrowings note 50 : arrangements and political expenditure used in the its contingent liabilities and other risk factors Companies Act 2006 are broad in nature note 53 : its capital structure and position At no time during the year did any director and this authority is sought to ensure that note 55 : management of its risks including hold a material interest in any contract of any activities undertaken throughout the market, credit and liquidity risk note 58 : significance with the Company or any of its Group, which could otherwise be construed and derivative financial instruments note subsidiary undertakings other than an to fall within these provisions, can be 59. indemnity provision between each director undertaken without inadvertently infringing The Group has considerable financial and the Company and employment the rules.
It is not the policy of the Company resources together with a diversified contracts between each executive director to make donations to EU political business model, with a spread of businesses and a Group company.
The Company has organisations or to incur any other political and geographical reach.
As a consequence, purchased and maintained throughout the expenditure.
the directors believe that the Group is well year directors and officers liability insurance Aviva did not make any political placed to manage its business risks in respect of itself and its directors.
Company has also executed deeds of After making enquiries, the directors indemnity for the benefit of each director of Disclosure of information to the auditor have a reasonable expectation that the the Company, and each person who was a Company and the Group as a whole have director of the Company during the year, in In accordance with section 418 of the adequate resources to continue in respect of liabilities that may attach to them Companies Act 2006, the directors in office operational existence for the foreseeable in their capacity as directors of the at the date of approval of this report future.
For this reason, they continue to Company or of associated companies.
The confirm that, so far as they are each aware, adopt the going concern basis in preparing Articles of Associationallow such there is no relevant audit information of the financial statements.
which the Companys External Auditor, These indemnities were granted at PwC, is unaware and each director has Post Balance Sheet events different times according to the law in place taken all reasonable steps that ought to at the time and where relevant are have been taken as a director to be aware Details of significant events that occurred qualifying third-party indemnity provisions of any relevant audit information and to subsequent to 31 December 2014 are as defined by section 234 of the Companies establish that PwC is aware of that disclosed in notes 4 and 63.
These indemnities were in force information.
throughout the year and are currently in Fair, balanced and understandable force.
Details of directors remuneration, Annual General Meeting service contracts, employment contracts and To support the directors statement below interests in the shares of the Company are The 2015 AGM of the Company will be that the Annual report and accounts, taken set out in the Directors remuneration held on Wednesday, 29 April 2015 at the as a whole, is fair, balanced and report.
There is no arrangement or Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, understandable, the Board considered the understanding with any shareholder, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11 am.
process followed to draft the Annual report customer, supplier, or any other external and accounts: The Notice of AGM convening the meeting party, to appoint a director or a member of describes the business to be conducted each section of the Annual report and the Group Executive save in connection accounts is prepared by a member of thereat.
Further details can be found in the with the proposed acquisition of Friends Shareholder services section.
Each | 88 88 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report continued preparer receives guidance on the Prepare the financial statements on the requirement for content included in the going concern basis unless it is Annual report and accounts to be fair, inappropriate to presume that the balanced and understandable Company and the Group will continue in the overall co-ordination of the business production of the Annual report and accounts is overseen by the Chief The directors are responsible for keeping Accounting Officer to ensure consistency adequate accounting records that are across the document sufficient to show and explain the an extensive verification process is companys transactions and disclose with undertaken to ensure factual accuracy reasonable accuracy at any time the comprehensive reviews of drafts of the financial position of the company and the Annual report and accounts are group and enable them to ensure that the undertaken by members of the Group financial statements and the Directors Executive and, other members of senior remuneration report comply with the management, external legal advisers and Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the external auditor group financial statements, Article 4 of the an advanced draft is considered and IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for reviewed by the Disclosure Committee safeguarding the assets of the company and and legal advisers the group and hence for taking reasonable the final draft is reviewed by the Audit steps for the prevention and detection of Committee prior to consideration by the fraud and other irregularities.
Board The directors are responsible for the our Board members also receive drafts of maintenance and integrity of the companys the Annual report and accounts in website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom sufficient time to facilitate their review and governing the preparation and input.
This includes the opportunity to dissemination of financial statements may discuss the draft Annual report and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accounts with both management and the The directors consider that the Annual external auditor and where appropriate report and accounts, taken as a whole, is challenging and disclosures as appropriate fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Directors responsibilities shareholders to assess the Groups and the companys performance, business model The directors are responsible for preparing and strategy.
the Annual report, the Directors Each of the directors, whose names and remuneration report and the financial functions are listed in the Directors and statements in accordance with applicable corporate governance report confirm that, law and regulations.
to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the directors to the group financial statements, which prepare financial statements for each have been prepared in accordance with financial year.
Under that law the directors IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true have prepared the group and parent and fair view of the assets, liabilities, company financial statements in accordance financial position and profit of the group: with IFRSs as adopted by the European and Union.
In preparing these financial the Strategic report and the Directors and statements, the directors have also elected corporate governance report in this to comply with IFRSs, issued by the Annual report include a fair review of the International Accounting Standards Board development and performance of the IASB.
Under company law the directors business and the position of the Group, must not approve the financial statements together with a description of the unless they are satisfied that they give a true principal risks and uncertainties that it and fair view of the state of affairs of the faces.
Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that By order of the Board on 4 March 2015. period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard make judgements and accounting Group Chief Chief Financial Officer estimates that are reasonable and prudent Executive Officer state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 89 89 New York Stock Exchange listing requirements The Companys ordinary shares are admitted to the NYSE and are traded as American Depositary Shares.
As a foreign company listed on the NYSE, the Company is required to comply with the NYSE corporate governance rules to the extent that these rules apply to foreign private issuers.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company is therefore required to comply with NYSE Rule 303A.
11 by making a disclosure of the differences between the Companys corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies listed on NYSE.
The Company complied with the Code in respect of its 2014 financial year and other relevant best practice principles and guidelines.
The main differences between UK and US requirements are summarised below together with Avivas approach to compliance: NYSE Listing Rules UK Corporate Governance Code Aviva approach Independence criteria for directors Independent directors must form the majority of At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, The majority of the Board comprises independent the board of directors.
A director cannot qualify as should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors who are deemed independent unless the Board affirmatively as determined by the Board.
The Code sets out its own independent under the Code and meet the determines that the director has no material criteria that may be relevant to the independence independence criteria in the NYSE rules.
NYSE rules determination, but the Board is permitted to conclude prescribe a list of specific factors and tests that US affirmative independence notwithstanding thelisted companies must use for determining existence of relationships or circumstances which may independence.
appear relevant to its determination, so long as it states its reasons.
Non-executive director meetings Non-management directors of each listed The Chairman should hold meetings with the NonThe independent Non-Executive Directors meet company must meet at regularly scheduled Executive Directors without the Executive Directors without Executive Directors present at least once executive sessions without management and, if present.
that group includes directors who are not independent, listed companies should at least once a year schedule an executive session including only independent directors.
Committees US companies are required to have a The Company is required to have a Nomination The Company has a Nomination Committee and a Nominating Corporate Governance Committee Committee but not a Corporate Governance Governance Committee, each of which are comprised of independent directors.
A majority of the members of the comprised of Independent NEDs.
The Governance identifying individuals qualified to become Board Nomination Committee should be independent NEDs.
Committee assists the Board in shaping the culture members, this committee must develop and The Board is required to undertake a formal and and values of the Group, however the Board as a recommend to the Board a set of corporate rigorous annual appraisal of its own performance.
whole is ultimately responsible for the corporate governance principles and oversee the evaluation governance of the Group and oversees this through of the Board and management.
reports to the Board and its committees.
The Board conducts an annual appraisal of its own performance, as well as the performance of each of its committees and of individual directors.
US companies are required to have a The Company is required to have a Remuneration The Company has a Remuneration Committee Compensation Committee made up entirely of Committee and under the Companies Act 2006 is comprised of independent NEDs which covers all independent directors.
required to obtain shareholder approval of the NYSE and Code requirements and recommends the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors to the Committee should be comprised of independent Board and shareholders for approval.
US companies are required to have an audit The Company must have an Audit Committee and at The Company has an Audit Committee comprised of committee comprised of independent directors least one member must have recent and relevant independent NEDs and at least one member meets and that one member must meet the financial experience.
The Committee should be both the NYSE and Code requirements on financial requirements to be an Audit Committee financial comprised of independent NEDs.
The Audit Committee does not review expert.
The Audit Committee should also cover risk management as this is covered by the Risk and risk matters.
Code of business conduct and ethics Companies are required to adopt and disclose a Not required under the Code.
The Company has adopted a Business Ethics Code to code of business conduct and ethics for directors, which all employees are bound and a Code of Ethics officers and employees, and promptly disclose any for senior management, which complies with the waivers of the code for directors or executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. officers.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Shareholders must be given the opportunity to Shareholder approval is necessary for certain equityAll new equity-compensation plans or amendments vote on all equity-compensation plans and compensation plans and significant changes thereto, to existing plans that are required to be approved by material revisions to those plans, with limited subject to certain exceptions.
shareholders under the Code are put to shareholders exceptions.
Detailed definitions of material for approval.
The Code does not provide a detailed definition or revisions are provided by NYSE.
explanation of what are considered to be significant changes.
By order of the Board John McFarlane Chairman 4 March 2015
