Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 75 75 Review the external interests and time membership of the Board, but were commitments of the directors to ensure involved in the recommendation on that each has sufficient time to undertake committee membership changes.
The his her duties to the Company Chairman of the committee reported to Monitor succession plans for the subsequent meetings of the Board on the appointment of executive directors and committees work and the Board received a NEDs to the Board copy of the agenda and the minutes of each Approve a report on the committees meeting of the committee.
activities for inclusion in the Companys Annual report and accounts Committee activities during 2014 Revised committee Terms of Reference were During 2014 the committee continued its Nomination adopted in February 2015 following an Nomination focus on maintaining an appropriate annual refresh.
Oversight responsibility for Committee report balance of skills, knowledge and experience Committee report talent management and development on the Board.
The work of the committee John McFarlane John McFarlane programmes, now lies with the Governance evolved throughout the year in response to Chair of the Nomination Chair of the Nomination Committee.
The full Terms of Reference for the retirement plans of the Chairman and to Commit Committtee ee the committee can be found on the the proposed acquisition of Friends Life.
Companys website at These issues are discussed in detail below.
In this, my final report to you as Chairman www.
com terms-of-reference and are The Group Company Secretary assisted the of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased also available from the Group Company committee chairman in planning the to report on how the committee has Secretary.
committees work, and ensured that the continued to undertake its role during 2014. committee received information and papers The principal purpose of the committee is to Committee membership and in a timely manner.
monitor the balance of skills, knowledge, attendance The chart below shows how the experience and diversity on the Board and committee allocated its time during 2014. recommend any changes to the The committee comprises the Chairman and composition of the Board.
The committee all the Companys NEDs.
The table below Nomination Committee has focused on ensuring that your Board shows the committee members during the allocation of agenda time has strong and responsible leadership year and their attendance at committee together with a wide range of skills, meetings: knowledge and experience, which are critical to creating long-term shareholder Membership and attendance value and business success.
Number of meetings Percentage As previously reported, I will be stepping 1 Committee member attended attendance down as both Chairman of the Board and John McFarlane of the committee following the Groups 2 Chairman 3 75% AGM in April 2015.
I am delighted that Sir Glyn Barker 4 100% Patricia Cross 4 100% Adrian Montague will replace me in both Michael Hawker 4 100% capacities.
Further details regarding his Gay Huey Evans 4 100% appointment follow later in this report.
Michael Mire 4 100% 3 Sir Adrian Montague 3 75% Bob Stein 4 100% Committee role and responsibilities Scott Wheway 4 100% Board and committee 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the The committee assists the Board by regularly succession planning 67% committee member attended during the year whilst a reviewing the composition of the Board and member of the committee.
Independence and con icts 22% conducting a rigorous and transparent 2 John McFarlane did not attend a meeting at which his Other including governance 11% process when recommending or renewing retirement from the Board and as Chairman, and consequential succession planning, was the only the appointment of directors to the Board.
Scott Wheway chaired this meeting.
The main responsibilities of the committee Chairman succession 3 Sir Adrian Montague did not attend a meeting at On being advised that John McFarlane are to: which the only agenda item was the process for identifying and shortlisting candidates for the role of Evaluate and review the structure, size would be stepping down as Chairman and Chairman.
retiring from the Board of the Company, and composition of the Board including the balance of skills, knowledge, the committee agreed to form a subThe committee met on four occasions in committee led by Scott Wheway, Chairman experience and diversity of the Board, 2014, of which three were ad hoc meetings taking into account the Companys risk of the Governance Committee, and called at short notice to consider the comprising Gay Huey Evans and Glyn appetite and strategy Chairmans succession and possible new Identify and nominate suitable candidates Barker, to manage the process of identifying Board appointments following the and recommending a successor to the for appointment to the Board, including successful completion of the Friends Life chairmanship of the Board and its Board.
During the year the committee Sir Adrian Montague had indicated his committees, and appointment of the also recommended for approval by the Senior Independent Director, against a interest in the appointment and his Board changes to the membership of the candidature was considered alongside a specification of the role and capabilities Risk, Audit, Governance and Remuneration required for the position, including high level review of potential external Committees, and the appointment of a new candidates.
The sub-committee also took relevant financial experience for Audit Chairman to each of the Governance and Committee members account of the succession planning that had Remuneration Committees.
been put in place for the role of Chairman Assess the independence of each of the The Group Company Secretary acts as NEDs which also identified Sir Adrian as a suitable the Secretary to the committee.
Taking into consideration the job Assess directors conflicts of interest as the committee took no part in any they arise specification, capabilities, experience and discussions concerning their own | 76 76 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report continued time commitments required for the role, Due to the circumstances surrounding these the Audit Committee report.
Scott Wheway and the results of the review of external appointments it was not appropriate to use has served on the Board for seven years and candidates, the committee concluded that an external search consultancy or open the committee was satisfied that he remains Sir Adrian Montague had the requisite skills advertising for these appointments.
His presence on the Board and capabilities to undertake the role of provides continuity given the number of committee considered Sir Malcolm to be Chairman, was the best candidate for the independent as he was considered changes to the Board during the previous role and recommended his appointment to two years and he makes a considerable independent upon his appointment as the Board subject to Sir Adrian reducing his Chairman of Friends Life and is independent contribution to the Board, through his external time commitments during 2015.
In knowledge of the Company and wide skill in character and judgement and meets the particular, an internal appointment provides Code criteria.
Over the last year the Chairmans continuity and stability to the Board.
His external commitments have increased with The Board approved these appointment has received approval from the appointments and intend that they will appointments to FirstGroup, Westfield PRA and FCA.
Given the well developed Corporation and Barclays plc.
The Chairman become effective following the 2015 AGM succession plan in place the Committee subject to regulatory approval and has commenced an orderly handover of his decided not to use an external search duties to Sir Adrian Montague and the successful completion of the proposed consultancy or open advertising on this acquisition.
The new directors would stand committee was therefore satisfied that Mr occasion.
McFarlane continued to devote sufficient for election by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Company Secretary will time to fulfil his role at Aviva.
Board appointments and diversity Following consideration of these issues implement induction plans for the new The committee led the process to find a directors.
the committee concluded that it considered new CFO following Pat Regans resignation each NED to be independent in character All appointments to the Board are made and appointed Spencer Stuart to assist in on merit, against the criteria identified by and judgement and that there are no the search process.
A role profile was circumstances that are likely to affect their the committee, having regard to the agreed by the committee and a shortlist of benefits of diversity on the Board, including judgement and recommended that each internal and external candidates considered.
NED standing for re-election at the 2015 gender.
The committee strongly believes The final candidates were interviewed by that diversity throughout the Group and at AGM be re-elected.
Spencer Stuart, the Chairman, Group CEO, Taking into account the time Board and senior management level is a HR Director, Group General Counsel & driver of business success.
Diversity brings a commitments and any potential conflicts Company Secretary and members of the involved, the committee reviewed and broader, more rounded perspective to committee and the committee then met to decision-making and risk management, recommended that the Board agree the review feedback and, after due appointments of Glyn Barker as a Nonmaking the Board and senior management consideration, recommended to the Board more effective.
Executive Director of Auctus Industries plc, that Tom Stoddard was the best candidate Gay Huey Evans as Deputy Chairman of the Whilst the Board is currently below its and that he be appointed to the Board as target of 25% female representation at Financial Reporting Council and Bob Stein as CFO.
Spencer Stuart is a signatory to the a director of Resolution Life Holdings Inc in 18% it remains committed to achieving that Voluntary Code for Executive Search Firms goal as soon as possible.
the US, in advance of such appointments and is also used by the Group for other being taken up.
At the date of this Report, 19% 2013: senior executive searches.
21% of Group Executive members and Committee performance and In connection with the proposed 21% 2013: 21% of senior executives in acquisition of Friends Life, discussions were the Company were female.
It is the effectiveness held with the current Chairman and Group Companys intention to increase this Chief Executive of Friends Life and it was number as it is recognised that a greater The Board undertook an annual review of the committees performance and proposed that Andy Briggs, the current number of women in senior management Group Chief Executive of Friends Life, join positions will create a stronger talent effectiveness as part of the Board the Board and be appointed as CEO of the pipeline and is better for business.
Further effectiveness review and the results of the Groups combined UK & Ireland Life details on diversity can be found in the review will be incorporated into the business.
The committee discussed this Engaging with our people section of the committees processes and activities for proposal and its potential impact and after Strategic report.
In particular it was agreed that the due consideration recommended to the committee would review its processes for Board that Andy Briggs be appointed as an Other activities recommending appointments to the Board Executive Director of the Board.
The During the year the committee reviewed the and hold additional meetings on succession committee also considered whether any of composition of the Boards committees and planning for Executive Directors.
the Friends Life Non-Executive Directors recommended changes to the Board for would be suitable for appointment to the approval.
Board given their experience and The committee also reviewed the knowledge of the Friends Life group, which independence of each NED: carried out an would be invaluable in integrating the annual review of each directors conflicts of Friends Life business into the Group interest and the balance of skills, following the completion of the proposed knowledge, experience and diversity on the acquisition.
After due consideration, the Board.
In doing so, the committee noted committee recommended to the Board that that a member of Glyn Barkers family Sir Malcolm Williamson, current Chairman works for the Companys External Auditor, of Friends Life, be appointed as a Nonbut that this person did not have any Executive Director of the Board and that he involvement in work carried out for the become the Companys Senior Independent Group: and the cross-directorships of Director once Sir Adrian Montague becomes Michael Hawker and Patricia Cross on Chairman.
These appointments are subject Macquarie Group Limited and Macquarie to regulatory approval and the successful Bank Limited.
Consideration of Glyns completion of the proposed acquisition.
former employment by PwC is considered in
