68 | 68 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Group executive Group executive Group executive 01 02 05 09 13 06 10 14 03 07 15 04 08 11 12 16 Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 69 69 01.
Euan Munro Group Chief Executive Officer Group General Counsel and Company Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Investors Secretary Go to page 66 to read Marks biography.
Euan joined Aviva in early 2014 and recently Kirstine joined Aviva in 1991 and is the launched a multi-strategy funds range.
Tom Stoddard Group General Counsel and Company 2015 he aims to widen Aviva Investors Chief Financial Officer Secretary.
She is responsible for providing distribution network, harness scalability legal and company secretarial services to the within the organisation and develop Go to page 66 to read Toms biography.
Board and Group: legal risk management: investment propositions for customers.
Prior corporate responsibility and public policy.
to joining Aviva in January 2014, Euan held 03.
Nick Amin She has held a number of legal roles across a number of senior leadership roles at Chief Operations and Transformation the Group.
Standard Life, with responsibility for fixed Officer income and multi-asset management.
Christine Deputy Nick joined Aviva in 2013 and has a strong Group HR Director 13.
Monique Shivanandan international background in consumer Chief Information Officer banking and insurance: and significant Christine joined Aviva in 2013 and is experience of general management, responsible for Human Resources and Monique joined Aviva in 2014.
To achieve business operations and transformation communications.
She aims to support the Digital First strategy her priorities are to projects over a 40 year career.
Nick is employees to reach their full potential, to transform the Groups IT estate, ensure that responsible for driving the transformation better serve our customers and to enable the Group maximises digital capability and programme across the Group, to improve Aviva to achieve outstanding performance.
that our customers digital experience is in a profitability and efficiency.
Christine has a proven track record of secure environment.
She has held senior leading HR functions and delivering cultural technology positions in both the 04.
Chief Executive Officer, Aviva UK & Ireland Life Insurance 09.
Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Asia Chairman Global General Insurance and David joined Aviva in 1999 and has Chief Executive Officer, Aviva UK & Ireland spearheaded the UK Life business activities Khor joined Aviva in 2013 and is responsible General Insurance to champion the customer.
He is a Board for Avivas Asian businesses including our representative of the Association of British new joint venture in Indonesia, Astra Aviva Maurice joined Aviva in 1992 and oversees Insurers as well as chairman of the ABI Life.
He has over 30 years of experience the general insurance businesses globally, Retirement and savings committee.
In 2015, within the insurance market in Asia and and leads the UK & Ireland General Davids priorities include continuing to adapt uses his deep business understanding and Insurance business.
He is at the forefront of to changes to the UK annuities market, extensive knowledge of the Asian market change to the industry and is Chairman of launching a new retirement solutions direct and culture to drive Avivas success in the the Association of British Insurers General to customer platform and maximising the region.
He was opportunity of auto-enrolment.
formerly Chief Executive Officer of Aviva 10.
Paul Boyle Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Audit Officer 15.
Chris Wei John joined Aviva in 1986 and leads Avivas CEO Global Life Insurance and Chairman Paul joined Aviva in 2010 and leads the Risk function, regulatory compliance and Asia Internal Audit function which independently Solvency II implementation.
The function assesses the effectiveness of the Groups challenges and oversees the Groups Chris joined Aviva in October 2014 and is systems and controls for managing risk.
Paul management of risks, and develops and responsible for the overall growth and has been a catalyst for a number of maintains the risk management framework.
profitability of Avivas Life Insurance improvements in those systems and A qualified fellow of the Institute of businesses.
He aims to achieve this by controls.
Paul is a Chartered Accountant Actuaries, he has held a number of senior providing excellent customer service and and was previously Chief Executive of the roles in the UK Life business, including expanding our multi-distribution platforms.
Prior to joining Aviva Chris was Group CEO of Great Eastern Holdings Ltd, a leading 06.
David McMillan insurance company in Asia.
Chief Digital Officer Chairman Global Health Insurance and Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Europe 16.
Jason Windsor Andrew joined Aviva in late 2014 and is Chief Capital and Investments Officer accountable for Avivas digital product David joined Aviva in 2002 and is innovation and transformation as our responsible for Avivas European and Indian Jason joined Aviva in 2010 and is customers increasingly choose digital as businesses and oversees all Health responsible for capital management and their preferred way of dealing with us.
businesses across the Group a key growth allocation, investments, treasury and Andrew has held significant e-commerce area and part of our composite offering.
His aim is to achieve better and digital leadership roles in international David recently led the restructuring of our returns on capital and investments across and retail consumer businesses.
Italian business as well as the IPO of Avivas the Group, consistent with the strategic Turkish Life joint venture.
He has held a anchor and risk appetite.
He was previously number of senior roles at Aviva.
a Managing Director in the Financial Institutions Group at Morgan Stanley.
