| 70 70 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report The Boards Terms of Reference also set out Directors and Length of tenure of those matters that must be reported to the Non-Executive Directors corporate governance Board, such as senior leadership changes, significant litigation or material regulatory report breaches, and explain how matters that This report sets out the role and activities of arise between scheduled meetings should the Board and explains how the Group is be dealt with.
The directors The UK Corporate Governance Code As at the date of this report the Board comprised the Chairman, Group Chief As a UK premium listed company, Aviva Executive Officer Group CEO, Chief seeks to comply with the UK Corporate Financial Officer CFO and eight Governance Code 2012 the Code.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs.
2014 version of the Code will apply to A number of changes to the Board are due Avivas 2015 financial year and work is to take place after the 2015 AGM, some of underway to ensure full compliance with which are subject to the successful the new requirements.
0-3 years 5 completion of the proposed acquisition of Further details of how the Company 3-6 years 2 Friends Life.
This will result in the Board applied the Code principles and complied 6-9 years 1 comprising the Chairman, three executive with its provisions, are set out in this report 9 years 0 directors and seven NEDs and the Board will and the Directors remuneration report.
still have a sufficient balance between Further information on the Code can be executive and non-executives.
The following found on the Financial Reporting Councils Geographical mix charts show the balance of the Board website at www.
between executive and non-executive The Boards view is that the Company representation, length of tenure and the was fully compliant throughout the diversity of the Board in terms of gender accounting period with the relevant and nationality.
The Board Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board believes that a strong system of governance throughout the Group is essential in ensuring that the business runs smoothly, to UK 6 aid effective decision making and support US 2 the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Australasian 3 The Board is responsible to shareholders for promoting the long-term success of the The Boards policy is to appoint and retain Company and, in particular, for setting the NEDs who can apply their wider business Groups strategic aims, monitoring knowledge and experiences to their managements performance against those Chairman 1 oversight of the Group and to review and strategic aims, setting the Groups risk Executive Directors 2 progressively refresh the skills on the Board.
appetite, ensuring the Group is adequately Non-Executive Directors 8 The report of the Nomination Committee resourced, and that effective controls are in sets out the work carried out during the place.
The Board also sets the values and year on succession planning for the Board.
Gender split of directors supports the culture of the Group.
Committee membership is also regularly The specific duties of the Board are refreshed.
clearly set out in its terms of reference NEDs are required to be able to present which address a wide range of corporate objective, rigorous and constructive governance matters and list those items that challenge to management, drawing on their are specifically reserved for decision by the wider experiences to question assumptions Board.
Matters reserved for Board approval and viewpoints and, where necessary, include: defend a given position.
The NEDs should Group strategy and business plans also assist management in the development Financial reporting and controls, capital of the Companys strategy.
To be effective, structure and dividend policy it is our view that the majority of our NEDs Group risk appetite and framework should have a sound understanding of the Remuneration policy insurance industry so as to be able to Significant transactions and expenditure evaluate properly the information provided.
Corporate governance issues e. g. All of the current directors were subject appointment and removal of the Group to a formal performance evaluation in Male 9 Company Secretary and Chief Risk Officer respect of 2014.
The Board, having Female 2 CRO, Board and committee succession considered the matter carefully, is of the planning and the constitution of Board opinion that all of the current NEDs remain committees Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 71 71 independent and free from any relationship performance: changes in senior The Chairman and Group CEO or circumstances that could affect, or Role profiles are in place for the Chairman management: regulatory developments: appear to affect, their independent and the control environment and the Group CEO which clearly set out judgement.
Scott Wheway, who has served the duties of each role.
The Chairmans CFO reports, which included the financial on the Board for seven years, was subject to results and forecasts: reports on the priority is to lead the Board and ensure its a particularly rigorous review of his effectiveness: the Group CEOs priority is the operational plan and performance: independence and the Board was satisfied competitor results: treasury activities: and management of the Group.
The Board has that he remains independent and that his delegated the day-to-day running of the progress against Solvency II SII presence on the Board provides continuity Reports from the CRO on the Groups Group to the Group CEO within certain given the number of changes to the Board limits, above which matters must be significant risks and regulatory issues: risk during the previous two years.
He makes a appetite: and compliance with business escalated to the Board for determination.
considerable contribution to the Board, standards and controls through his knowledge of the Company Reports from the Chief Capital & Senior Independent Director and wide skill set.
The Senior Independent Directors role is to Investments Officer on the Groups capital Accordingly, over half of the Board and liquidity position act as a sounding board for the Chairman, members, excluding the Chairman, are to serve as an intermediary for the other Reports and recommendations from each independent NEDs.
Biographical details Board committee directors where necessary and to be including a summary of the skills and available to shareholders should they have Presentations and reports from business experience the directors bring to the Board units and functions concerns that they have been unable to are set out in their biographies above.
resolve through normal channels, or when As part of its annual work plan, the Board Each NED must be able to devote such channels would be inappropriate.
reviewed and approved all financial results sufficient time to the role in order to During the year the NEDs, led by Sir Adrian announcements, the Annual report and discharge his or her responsibilities Montague, met several times without the accounts, the operational plan and dividend effectively.
On average, the NEDs spend at Chairman present and Sir Adrian Montague payments, all changes to the composition of least 72 days a year on Company business, led the review of the Chairmans the Board and its committees, and received with the Chairmen of the Audit, Risk, performance during the year.
regular updates on progress against the Governance and Remuneration Committees Groups strategy.
This is Board activities during 2014 In addition, the Board undertook the significantly higher than previous years due The work of the Board follows an agreed following specific activities during the year: to consideration of the proposed acquisition annual work plan and the following chart Approved the restructure of the Groups of Friends Life.
The Chairman has recently shows how the Board allocated its time Italian Life Insurance joint ventures with resigned as Chairman of the Group and Sir during 2014.
UBI Banca and Unicredit to simplify the Adrian Montague, the current Senior structure and facilitate cash remittances Independent Director, will become Allocation of Board agenda time Approved the redemption of three hybrid Chairman from the conclusion of the 2015 debt instruments and the re-financing of AGM, subject to re-election by shareholders.
one of these instruments as part of the The Nomination Committee reviewed the Groups deleveraging plans time commitment required for the role and Approved a proposal that significantly Sir Adrians significant other commitments reduced the Groups exposure to and noted that Sir Adrian intended to longevity through the transfer of payment reduce his external commitments to give funding basis liabilities in the Aviva Staff him sufficient time to dedicate to the role.
In Pension Scheme to external reinsurers light of this the Nomination Committee resulting in less volatility in the Aviva Staff supported his appointment and Sir Adrian Pension Scheme has since retired as Chairman of Anglian Discussed and reviewed the impact of the Water Group Ltd and intends to further pension legislation changes in the UK on reduce his external commitments during the UK annuities market 2015 including retiring from Skanska AB.
Approved the use of a Group entity as a In connection with the proposed captive reinsurer for the Group acquisition of Friends Life, Sir Malcolm Succession planning, Board Approved a proposal to launch an initial composition and effectiveness 11% Williamson and Andy Briggs, respectively public offering of 20% of the shares in Group strategy, business plans and the current Chairman and CEO of Friends performance monitoring 12% the Groups life and pensions joint venture Life, will join the Board following the 2015 in Turkey Financial reporting and controls, AGM subject to regulatory approval and capital structure and dividend policy 24% Approved the Groups recovery plan and successful completion of the acquisition.
Sir Corporate governance 18% liquidity risk management plan required Malcolm will replace Sir Adrian as Senior Group risk management policies, due to its status as a GSII Independent Director and Andy Briggs will risk appetite and framework 7% Considered the results of the employee become CEO of the enlarged UK & Ireland Transactions 23% engagement survey Voice of Aviva Life business.
This will provide continuity to Other 5% Considered and approved the proposed the enlarged business.
The Board considers acquisition of Friends Life Sir Malcolm to be independent as he was The Board monitored the performance of considered independent upon his The Board held one meeting in Italy during the Group and its compliance with the appointment as Chairman of Friends Life the year to gain a deeper understanding of governance framework described below and is independent in character and the operations of the Italian business.
through regular: judgement and meets the Code criteria.
Gay Group CEO reports, which included Huey Evans will also be retiring from the updates on the implementation of the Board from the conclusion of the 2015 Groups strategy and theses: updates on AGM.
ongoing corporate transactions and disposals: reports on financial | 72 72 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report continued Proposed acquisition of Friends Life Group CEO in respect of his executive duties Board attendance 2014 Following careful consideration of the a separate process was carried out by the Number of potential benefits and risks of the Chairman and in respect of the CFO, by the meetings Percentage 1 Director attended Attendance transaction and reviewing the due diligence, Group CEO.
The process involved measuring Glyn Barker 14 100% the Board approved the proposed performance against each Executive Patricia Cross 14 100% acquisition of Friends Life and on 19 January Directors role objectives.
Michael Hawker 14 100% 2015 the Company published a prospectus Gay Huey Evans 14 100% John McFarlane 14 100% and circular in relation to the recommended Induction, training and development Michael Mire 14 100% all share acquisition of Friends Life Group The Board and the Chairman believe 2 Sir Adrian Montague 12 92% Limited by the Company as announced on 2 strongly in the development of all of its 3 Patrick Regan 2 67% December 2014.
It is proposed that up to employees and directors and it is a Bob Stein 14 100% 4 1,105,000,000 new ordinary shares of 25 requirement of each directors appointment Tom Stoddard 10 100% Scott Wheway 14 100% pence each will be issued by the Company in that they commit to continuing their Mark Wilson 14 100% connection with the proposed acquisition of professional development.
the entire issued and to be issued ordinary During the year, directors attended a 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the share capital of Friends Life.
The proposed number of internal training sessions, director attended during the year whilst a member of acquisition will be implemented by way of a including sessions on various aspects of SII, the Board.
scheme of arrangement under Part VIII of Avivas UK defined benefit pension scheme, 2 Sir Adrian did not attend one meeting where the agenda was to approve his appointment as Chairman.
the Companies Guernsey Law 2008. remuneration, Avivas investment process There was also one ad hoc meeting that he was unable and asset portfolio, and information to attend due to technological difficulties but he did Board effectiveness security.
Training sessions have been built receive the papers for the meeting.
3 Pat Regan resigned with effect from 28 March 2014.
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the into the Boards and committees work He did not attend one meeting which was called at success of the Group and the Company plans for 2015. short notice to discuss plans for his succession.
undertakes a rigorous evaluation review The Chairman ensures that all new 4 Tom Stoddard was appointed on 28 April 2014. each year in order to assess how well the directors receive a comprehensive induction Board, its committees, the directors and the programme tailored to their particular needs During 2014, 14 Board meetings were held, Chairman are performing.
The aim is to and which consists of several separate of which, nine were scheduled Board continually improve the Boards training sessions over a number of months.
meetings and five were additional Board effectiveness and the Groups overall These include presentations from key meetings called at short notice.
For the 2014 evaluation an members of senior management, visits to the Board delegated responsibility for internal review was conducted with the use the Groups main operating businesses and certain items, such as giving final approval of questionnaires and the responses functions, and meetings with the external to proposals broadly agreed by the full analysed and results discussed by the Board auditor and one of the Companys Board, to specially created committees of and each of the committees and actions corporate brokers.
the Board which met 14 times during 2014. agreed.
Overall the Board was found to Further or follow-up meetings are The Chairman and the NEDs met several function well with a collaborative and arranged where a director requires a deeper times in the absence of the executive professional atmosphere around the board understanding of a particular issue.
All new directors and the NEDs met in the absence table.
The Board agreed that its priorities for directors also receive induction materials, of the Chairman, including one meeting 2015 should include closely monitoring any which include, but are not limited to, the chaired by the Senior Independent Director risks associated with the completion of the current strategic and operational plan: to appraise the Chairmans performance.
proposed acquisition of Friends Life and its recent Board and committee minutes and Members of senior management regularly integration into the business: capital and meeting packs: organisation structure attend Board meetings to present items of liquidity strength: conduct risk oversight: charts: role profiles: a history of the Group: business.
monitoring global economic risks: and and relevant policies, procedures and assessing the changing customer governance material.
Any knowledge or Conflicts of interest preferences for the Groups products.
The skills gaps identified during the directors In line with the Companies Act 2006, the focus for the Board committees in 2015 are approved person application process are Companys Articles of Association allow the detailed in each committees report.
also addressed through their induction Board to authorise potential conflicts of Independent Board Evaluation programme.
interest that may arise and to impose such conducted an external and independent limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The valuation in 2013 and is carrying out a Directors attendance decision to authorise a conflict of interest follow up review in 2015, the results of The Company requires directors to attend all can only be made by non-conflicted which will be published in the 2015 Annual meetings of the Board and the committees directors those who have no interest in the report.
on which they serve and to devote sufficient matter being considered and in making The review of the performance of the time to the Company in order to effectively such a decision the directors must act in a Chairman, led by the Senior Independent perform their duties.
The attendance of the way they consider, in good faith, will be Director, concluded that the Chairman directors at the Board meetings held in most likely to promote the Companys continued to operate to a high level, 2014 is shown in the following table and success for the benefit of its shareholders as exhibiting positive leadership and ensuring the attendance at committee meetings is a whole.
The Boards procedure to regularly that the necessary conditions for effective shown in the committee reports.
review and approve actual and potential discussion both on an individual, and at conflicts of interest as they arise, and prior Board level, were met.
to the appointment of new directors, The Chairman and Senior Independent operated effectively during the year.
Director assessed the performance of the NEDs and the Executive Directors in their capacity as directors.
The Chairman concluded that each director contributes effectively and demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
To assess the Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 73 73 Governance structure of 2002.
The FRCF process follows a riskchallenge of the identification, based approach, with management measurement, monitoring and reporting of The Board is responsible for promoting the identification, assessment documentation significant risks and for developing the RMF.
long-term success of the Company for the and testing, remediation as required, As the business responds to changing benefit of shareholders.
This includes reporting and certification over key financial market conditions and customer needs, the ensuring that an appropriate system of reporting-related controls.
Management Risk function regularly monitors the governance is in place throughout the regularly undertakes quality assurance appropriateness of the Companys risk Group.
To discharge this responsibility, the procedures over the application of the FRCF policies and the RMF to ensure they remain Board has established frameworks for risk process and FRCF controls.
This helps to provide assurance management and internal control using a The Board delegates to the Group CEO to the various risk oversight committees that three lines of defence model and reserves the day-to-day management of the there are appropriate controls in place for all to itself the setting of the Groups risk Company and approval of specific issues up core business activities, and that the appetite.
to set financial limits, including limits on processes for managing risk are understood In-depth monitoring of the revenue and capital expenditure, and followed consistently across the Group.
establishment and operation of prudent and reinsurance spend and the settlement of The second line Risk function as a whole effective controls in order to assess and claims.
In turn the Group CEO delegates also includes the Compliance and Actuarial manage risks associated with the Groups some of his authority to his direct reports.
The Actuarial function is operations is delegated to the Audit, Risk There is a similar delegated authority accountable for Group wide actuarial and Governance Committees which report framework in place throughout the Group.
methodology, reporting to the relevant regularly to the Board.
However, the Board governing body on the adequacy of reserves retains ultimate responsibility for the First line and capital requirements, and on the Groups systems of internal control and risk Management are responsible for the adequacy of underwriting and reinsurance management and their effectiveness and application of the RMF, for implementing arrangements.
The Compliance function has carried out a review of the systems and monitoring the operation of the system supports and advises the business on the during the year.
of internal control and for providing identification, measurement and These frameworks play a key role in the assurance to the Audit Committee, the Risk management of its regulatory, financial management of risks that may impact the Committee, the Governance Committee crime and conduct risks.
It is accountable for fulfillment of the Boards objectives.
maintaining the compliance standards and are designed to identify and manage, rather The Group Executive members and each framework within which the Group than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business unit Chief Executive Officer are operates, and monitoring and reporting on business objectives and can only provide responsible for the implementation of its compliance risk profile.
reasonable and not absolute assurance Group strategies, plans and policies, the against material misstatement or losses.
monitoring of operational and financial Third line These frameworks are regularly reviewed performance, the assessment and control of The Internal Audit function provides and comply with the Financial Reporting financial, business and operational risks and independent and objective assessment on Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance the maintenance and ongoing development the robustness of the RMF and the for Directors.
of a robust control framework and appropriateness and effectiveness of environment in their areas of responsibility.
internal control to the Audit, Governance Risk Management Framework Chaired by the Chief Risk Officer CRO, the and Risk Committees, business unit Audit The Risk Management Framework RMF is Asset Liability Committee ALCO assists the Committees and the Board.
Further designed to identify, measure, manage, CFO with the discharge of his responsibilities information on the activities of the Internal monitor and report the significant risks to in relation to management of the Groups Audit function is contained within the Audit the achievement of the Groups business Balance Sheet within risk appetite and Committee Report.
objectives and is embedded throughout the provides financial and insurance risk Group.
The RMF has been in place for the management oversight.
Board oversight year under review and up to the date of The Operational Risk Committee is also The Risk Committee assists the Board in its approval of the Annual report and accounts.
It supports the first line oversight of risk and risk management It is codified through risk policies and owners of key operations and franchise risks across the Group and makes business standards which set out the risk in the discharge of their responsibilities in recommendations on risk appetite to the strategy, appetite, framework and minimum relation to operational risk management.
The responsibilities and activities of requirements for the Groups worldwide The Disclosure Committee is chaired by the Risk Committee are set out in the Risk operations.
Further detail is in note 58. the CFO and reports to the Audit Committee Report.
It oversees the design and The Audit Committee, working closely Internal controls effectiveness of the Groups disclosure with the Risk Committee, is responsible for Internal controls facilitate effective and controls, for both financial and non-financial assisting the Board in discharging its efficient business operations, the information, evaluates the Groups responsibilities for the integrity of the development of robust and reliable internal disclosure controls and reviews and Companys financial statements, the reporting and compliance with laws and endorses the Groups key periodic external effectiveness of the system of internal regulations.
reports, including the consolidated financial financial controls and for monitoring the A Group reporting manual including statements.
The results of the FRCF process effectiveness, performance and objectivity International Financial Reporting Standards are signed off by business unit Chief of the internal and external auditors.
The IFRS requirements and a Financial Executive Officers and Chief Financial responsibilities and activities of the Audit Reporting Control Framework FRCF are in Officers and compliance with the FRCF is Committee are set out in the Audit place across the Group.
FRCF relates to the reported to the Disclosure and the Audit Committee Report.
preparation of reliable financial reporting Committees.
and preparation of local and consolidated financial statements in accordance with Second line applicable accounting standards and with The Risk function is accountable for the the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act quantitative and qualitative oversight and | 74 74 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report continued shared with the Board through the Group Board and committee structure CEOs and CFOs reports and the Companys corporate brokers also periodically brief the Board on investor Aviva plc Board views.
During the year, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director met with the Companys major institutional investors.
This included consultation on the appointment of Sir Adrian Montague as Chairman and in Board Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Governance respect of the proposed Friends Life Committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee acquisition.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director was available to meet with major investors to discuss any areas of Management Disclosure Asset Liability Operational Risk concern that could not be resolved through Committees Committee Committee Committee ORC normal channels of investor communication.
ALCO The AGM also provides a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with private shareholders.
All serving The Governance Committee also works No material gaps exist in the RMF, as it directors attended the 2014 AGM.
There is closely with the Risk Committee and is applies to the business unit a dedicated email address which responsible for assisting the Board in its shareholders can use to ask questions on oversight of operational risk across the Any material risks not previously identified, the business of the AGM at Group, particularly in respect of the risk of control weaknesses or non-compliance with aviva.
This address not delivering good customer outcomes.
the Groups risk policies and business is included in the shareholder information The Audit, Governance and Risk standards or local delegations of authority, section of the Notice of AGM.
A Committees report regularly to the Board must be highlighted as part of this process.
presentation on the Groups performance is on their activities and make This is then supplemented by investigations given at the AGM and is made available on recommendations and escalate significant carried out at Group level and ultimately a the Companys website after the meeting at risk exposures to the Board as appropriate.
Group CEO and CRO certification for Aviva www.
Whenever possible, They ensure that mitigating actions are plc.
all directors attend the AGM and taken when risks are, or are expected to The effectiveness assessment also draws shareholders are invited to ask questions move, out of appetite.
on the regular cycle of assurance activity related to the business of the meeting at the The chart below shows the Board and carried out during the year.
The results of AGM and have an opportunity to meet with committee structure that oversees the the certification process and details of any the directors following the conclusion of the significant failings or weaknesses are Companys frameworks for risk meeting.
reported to the Audit Committee and the The Company is also holding a General Further details on procedures for the Board annually to enable them to carry out Meeting on 26 March 2015 to request management of risk operated by the Group an effectiveness assessment.
shareholder approval for the proposed are given in note 58.
The Audit Committee, working closely acquisition of Friends Life.
Further details are with the Risk Committee, on behalf of the available on the Companys website at Effectiveness of controls Board, last carried out a review of the www.
com friendsoffer and the results effectiveness of the systems of internal of the vote will be published after the To support an assessment of the control and risk management in March meeting.
effectiveness of the Groups governance, 2015, covering all material controls, internal control and risk management including financial, operational and requirements, the chief executive officer of compliance controls and the RMF and each business unit is required to certify that: processes.
The necessary actions have been There are sound risk management and or are being taken to remedy any significant internal control systems that are effective failings and weaknesses identified from and fit for purpose in place across the these reviews.
business Material existing or emerging risks within Communication with shareholders the business have been identified and assessed and the business operates in a The Company places considerable manner which conforms to the minimum importance on communication with requirements outlined in Group risk shareholders and engages with them on a policies and business standards wide range of issues.
The directors have an ongoing dialogue The Chief Risk Officer of each business unit and a programme of meetings with must certify that: institutional investors, fund managers and The Risk function has reviewed and analysts which are managed by the challenged the process supporting the Companys investor relations function.
At business unit Chief Executive Officers these meetings a wide range of issues are certification and is satisfied that it can discussed including strategy, financial provide reasonable assurance of the performance, management, remuneration material accuracy and completeness of the and governance, within the constraints of business unit Chief Executive Officers information already made public, to assessment understand any issues of concern to investors.
