Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 81 81 Revised committee Terms of Reference were The key responsibilities of the committee are to: adopted in February 2015 following an Review the Group's future risk strategy annual refresh.
The full Terms of Reference and its risk appetite, particularly in relation for the committee can be found on the to capital and liquidity and to make Companys website at recommendations on risk appetite to the www.
com terms-of-reference, and are Board also available from the Group Company Review the implementation of Secretary.
management actions and strategic decisions required to meet the capital Committee membership and implications of the new SII and GSII attendance regulations Risk Committee Risk Committee Review the Group's investment risk The table below shows the committee report report strategy, credit limit framework and members during the year and their Michael Hawker approve individual counterparty exposures attendance at committee meetings.
Michael Hawker Chair of the Risk in excess of limits Chair of the Risk Committee Review the design, completeness and Committee Membership and attendance effectiveness of the RMF relative to the Number of As Chairman of the committee, I am Group's activities and to assess the meetings Percentage 1 Committee member attended attendance pleased to present the Risk Committees adequacy and quality of the risk report for the year ended 31 December Michael Hawker management function and effectiveness Chairman 6 100% 2014. of risk reporting within the Group Glyn Barker 6 100% The principal purpose of the committee 2 Review the methodology and assumptions Gay Huey Evans 5 100% is to assist the Board in its oversight of risk Michael Mire 6 100% used in the Group's model for within the Group, with particular focus on Bob Stein 6 100% determining its economic and regulatory the Groups risk appetite, risk profile and 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the capital requirements and satisfy itself that the effectiveness of the Groups RMF.
We committee member attended during the year whilst a the assumptions and calibrations used member of the committee.
review the risks inherent in both our reflect the Group's forward-looking risk 2 Gay Huey Evans joined the committee on 19 February investment portfolios and in the insurance profile 2014. products we offer our clients.
In addition to Review and approve risk policies and any the risks inherent in investing and in relevant Group business standards, and to The committee met on 6 occasions in 2014. providing assurance, we review the strength The Chairman of the Company, Group monitor compliance with these and of our capital base and our liquidity position, management's actions to remedy any CEO, CRO, CFO and the CAO regularly the level of our operational risk, and the attended committee meetings.
Other breaches significant ongoing changes to the Satisfy itself that risks to the Group's members of senior management were also regulatory framework.
The capital invited to attend as appropriate to present business plan and any capital implications implications of SII and the Groups GSII are adequately identified and assessed by reports.
The committee holds regular private status pose risks to the Group and the sessions with the CRO and the CAO to management through appropriate stresscommittee has monitored development of testing, and that mitigating actions are enable them to raise any matters of concern these issues closely during the year and will to them without any other members of implemented continue to do so throughout 2015.
The Satisfy itself that risk-based information is management present.
The Group Company committee ensures that due diligence Secretary acted as the secretary to the used effectively by management appraisals are carried out on strategic or Ensure that a due diligence appraisal of committee.
material transactions, and also works with The Chairman of the committee strategic or significant transactions due to the Remuneration Committee to ensure be proposed to the Board is undertaken reported to subsequent meetings of the that risk management is properly considered Board on the committees work and the before the Board takes a decision on in setting the Groups Remuneration Policy.
whether to proceed Board received a copy of the CROs report, During the year the committee the meeting agenda and the minutes of Review the effectiveness of operational welcomed Gay Huey Evans as a member controls each meeting of the committee.
and the committee is now comprised of five Throughout the year both the committee Work with the Remuneration Committee independent NEDs.
I have been Chairman of to ensure that risk is considered in setting Chairman and Glyn Barker were also the Committee since September 2011. members of the Audit Committee the latter the overall remuneration policy for the Group as chairman of the Audit Committee, Committee responsibilities ensuring that risk considerations were Review relationships with prudential regulatory authorities in relevant appropriately communicated and taken into The committee oversees all aspects of risk account in the decisions of that committee.
jurisdictions and developments in the management in the Group, save for prudential regulatory environment, and There is cross-membership between conduct and financial crime risk, and brand each of the Board committees to ensure review significant actual or potential and reputation risk oversight responsibility breaches of prudential regulation and that risk issues were appropriately for which lies with the Governance communicated and taken into account in actions being taken to address these Committee.
Consequently the committees Review and recommend to the Board for the decisions of each committee.
particular focus is on market, credit, In performing its duties, the committee approval any material regulatory filings liquidity, insurance and operational risk, and Review the security and resilience of the IT had access to the services of the CRO, CAO, in considering their impact on both the the Group Company Secretary and external infrastructure of the Group financial and non-financial goals of the professional advisers.
The Chairman followed a programme of attending meetings in Canada, France, Spain, Poland and Turkey.
| 82 82 A Aviva viva p plc lc Annu Annual al r report eport a and nd a accounts ccounts 2 2014 014 Directors and corporate governance report continued In November 2014, the Chairman of the The chart below shows how the committee against risk appetite and targets for the committee together with the Chairmen of allocated its time during 2014.
Group and for material subsidiaries.
The the Governance and Audit Committees coGroups liquidity position and ICA and IGD hosted a two-day conference for the surplus has increased due to a programme Risk Committee allocation chairmen of the Board, Risk, Governance of agenda time of strategic, economic and operational and Audit Committees of the Groups actions, approved by the committee and the principal subsidiaries, their Chief Risk Board, designed to strengthen and provide Officers, Chief Audit officers and Chief greater resilience to the Groups capital and Financial Officers.
The committee Chairman, with the Actions taken by the committee CRO, holds a series of semi-annual included a detailed review of vulnerability of conference calls with the major subsidiary the Groups liquidity position to certain board risk committee chairmen and their stress event scenarios and an assessment of Chief Risk Officers, to ensure that there are managements mitigation proposals.
The no significant risks occurring in the business committee considered the transformation of that have not been raised through normal Aviva International Insurance Limited into a reporting routes.
Group internal captive reinsurer and challenged managements assumptions of Committee activities during 2014 the benefits that it would bring.
The Risk appetite, risk management committee continues to monitor the and risk reporting 16% The work of the committee followed an progress of the second phase of this project Group capital, liquidity management agreed annual work plan, which evolved and the interaction with relevant regulators and stress testing 15% throughout the year in response to the in the UK and overseas.
The Committee Solvency II Global Systemically changing macro-economic and regulatory reviewed managements proposal to Important Insurer 16% environment and changes in the Companys redeem 200 million and 50 million lower Business unit and functional updates 11% strategy.
The committee appraised all tier two hybrid debt instruments and the Risk review of Group Plan 5% strategic or significant transactions due to Groups plans to reduce leverage.
Regulatory and governance 16% be proposed to the Board, prior to the The committee received regular liquidity Asset Portfolio monitoring 10% Boards consideration of such transactions, forecasts and closely monitored the Groups Other including internal audit 11% to ensure that sufficient due diligence had ability to satisfy the 2013 final, 2014 interim been carried out and any risks identified and and 2014 final dividends.
During the year the committee focused on mitigated so far as possible or sufficient The committee reviewed managements the following areas: explanation given as to why a risk should be plan to address potential future capital accepted.
These are discussed in more detail requirements and the impacts associated Risk appetite monitoring below.
with being classified as a GSII and the The committee received regular detailed Given the materiality of the transaction, transition to SII, as well as the contingent reports on key risk exposures, emerging and the due diligence carried out, and risks in actions that could or should be taken.
potential risks, and the drivers of risk relation to, the proposed acquisition of throughout the Group.
It assessed and Friends Life was discussed as a full Board Solvency II challenged the appropriateness of the and more detail can be found in the The Group continues to work towards Groups overall risk appetite.
The committee Directors and corporate governance report compliance with the requirements of the SII monitored the Groups exposure against on page 72.
The Group Company Secretary Directive based on currently available this appetite, particularly in relation to the and the CRO assisted the committee guidance from the European Insurance and liquidity appetite, the Individual Capital Chairman in planning the committees Occupational Pensions Authority.
As it is Adequacy ICA and Group Regulatory work, and ensured that the committee strategically important for Aviva to have a Capital IGD surplus, and how the Groups received information and papers in a timely view of its businesses on an economic business plan affects the Groups capital manner.
capital basis to inform business decisions, position over time.
In December 2014 the the Group intends to move to an enhanced committee reviewed the Groups Business economic capital model ahead of SII Plan for 2015-2017 and the Capital and implementation.
The committee has Liquidity Plan for the same period and received regular updates on the progress of challenged management on a number of the Groups internal model application and areas, particularly in relation to growth is required to approve any material changes targets, and to ensure that further proposed to the internal model.
The committee has expense reductions were achieved without also approved an Internal Model Validation compromising the control environment and Business Standard and received regular in conjunction with re-engineering business reports on the external work carried out on processes to deliver efficiencies.
The plans the internal model to ensure that it is robust were recommended to the Board for and fit for purpose.
This work has been approval with a number of items for supported by both the Auditor and Internal consideration and it was noted that the Audit.
The Board has received tailored plans had been prepared on the basis of the training on SII with the committee members current Group and would be re-worked receiving more detailed training on specific following the successful completion of the areas.
In late 2014 the committee proposed acquisition of Friends Life.
considered and approved the methodology and assumptions for the 2015 ICA Capital and liquidity management submission.
Throughout the year the committee closely monitored and stress tested the Groups economic capital and liquidity positions Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 83 83 Risk management and governance regulators have the tools to resolve the More detail on the management of risk The committee has an ongoing programme Groups issues in a way that reduces is contained in note 58. of receiving reports from local risk recourse to taxpayer funds and limits the committee Chairmen or Chief Executive impact on the financial system.
The plans Committee performance and Officers on the risk environment and issues would only come into effect in a severe effectiveness arising in the Groups businesses and in stress scenario.
The committee continues to respect of particular product lines.
During monitor managements plans to meet The committee undertook an annual review the year, the committee received reports on potential capital requirements and will of its performance and effectiveness which the UK and Ireland General Insurance and regularly review the plans, particularly in concluded that overall the committee was Aviva Investors businesses, as well as a light of becoming an enlarged Group if the effective in carrying out its duties.
detailed review of the business in Canada.
proposed acquisition of Friends Life is In addition to undertaking its agreed IT risks are increasingly high profile and, completed successfully.
annual programme of activities, the following the appointment of a new Chief committee agreed that its priorities for 2015 Information Officer during the year, the Asset portfolio review should be to continue monitoring the committee received detailed updates on IT, Throughout the year the committee carried Groups preparedness for SII: monitor the data and cyber security issues and the out a review of the Groups asset and risks associated with completion of the committee endorsed managements investment portfolio to gain a more detailed proposed acquisition of Friends Life and its proposed actions to reduce risk in these understanding of the Groups asset portfolio integration into the Group: capital and areas.
and the adequacy of the investment liquidity strength: IT security and resilience, The committee reviewed and decision process, in the context of the RMF, and reviewing risks associated with different recommended to the Board a proposal that asset allocation framework and relevant risk product lines.
significantly reduced the Groups exposure policies.
The committee further scrutinised to longevity through the transfer of the processes and controls in place for payment funding basis liabilities in the Aviva investment in new asset classes and Staff Pension Scheme to external reinsurers.
exposure to new country risks.
The This transaction also resulted in less volatility committee also received regular updates on in the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, enabling Aviva Investors view of the global economic the trustees to fide-risk the Scheme and outlook in the short and medium term and provide greater certainty in respect of future the actions that could be taken to protect pension contributions.
The committee the Groups and clients asset portfolios in received regular reports from the CRO and different scenarios such as Eurozone monitored the effectiveness of the deflation: the impact of the worlds ageing Companys RMF which is described in more population: and political instability in Russia detail in the Directors and corporate and Ukraine and the potential impact on governance report and in note 58. other Eastern European countries.
During the year the committee, in conjunction with the Governance Risk and remuneration Committee, reviewed their respective roles The committee approved the CROs and responsibilities and agreed changes to objectives for 2014 and reviewed his each committees Terms of Reference performance against his 2013 objectives.
including moving oversight of conduct risk The committee also assessed senior from the Risk Committee to the Governance managements performance against the Committee.
agreed common risk objective and The committee reviewed how considered the appropriateness of the risk businesses across the Group had performed metrics when setting senior management against risk objectives set for 2014. remuneration policy.
Regulatory oversight Internal controls The committee monitored the regulatory Working with the Audit Committee, the environment and relationship with the committee monitored the adequacy of the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA and RMF.
During the year an updated RMF the Financial Conduct Authority FCA as policy with associated revised Business well as the relationship with regulators Standards was reviewed and recommended across the Group and discussed the specific for approval by the Board.
management actions identified to address Throughout the year, the Groups or mitigate issues which arose during the Internal Audit function continued to provide year.
As discussed above, the Company has the committee with independent and been designated as a GSII which will have a objective reports on the appropriateness, number of implications for the Group if it is effectiveness and sustainability of the still classified as a GSII in 2017.
As a GSII, Companys system of internal controls.
Key the Group has been required to draft a control issues reported by Internal Audit to number of additional risk management management and to the committee plans covering liquidity risk management, members were monitored on a quarterly recovery, and systemic risk management basis until the related risk exposures had and the PRA is drafting the requirements for been properly mitigated.
The purpose of these include summaries of any whistle-blowing plans is to ensure that the Group has allegations and the progress of credible plans to recover from financial investigations into such claims.
stress, but, if those plans were to fail, that
