| 84 84 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report continued related activities and advising the Board The following chart shows how the and management on these matters committee allocated its time during 2014, Review employee talent management and with key activities set out below: development programmes ensuring they take into account diversity, including Governance Committee allocation gender of agenda time Monitor talent management and development programmes.
The full Terms of Reference of the committee can be found on the Companys website at www.
com terms-ofGovernance Governance reference and are also available from the Group Company Secretary.
Committee report Committee report Scott Wheway Scott Wheway Committee membership and Chair of the Governance Chair of the Governance attendance Committee Committee The committee comprises independent As Chairman of the committee, I am NEDs only.
On 19 February 2014, Gay Huey pleased to present the Governance Evans stepped down as a member and Committees report for the year ended 31 Governance 34% Chairman of the committee and Scott December 2014.
Regulatory and financial crime 12% Wheway was appointed as Chairman.
The The Board strongly believes that good Reputation 9% table below shows the committee members governance and strong, responsible, Conduct 23% during the year and their attendance at balanced leadership by the Board are critical Customer 9% committee meetings.
to creating long-term shareholder value and People 8% business success.
Our role as a committee is Corporate responsibility 5% to assist the Board in shaping the culture Membership and attendance Number of and ethical values of the Group through meetings Percentage 1 overseeing and advising on conduct, Committee member attended attendance Conduct reputation, community, people and financial The committee reviewed conduct issues Scott Wheway 2 crime matters.
Chairman 6 100% which had the potential to have a material 3 Gay Huey Evans 1 100% Following the separation of the Financial impact on the Group and the management Michael Mire 6 100% Services Authority into the PRA and the responses and actions in response to these.
Sir Adrian Montague 6 100% FCA, the committee reviewed its Following the extension of its remit, the 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the responsibilities and terms of reference.
All committee now has oversight of those committee member attended during the year whilst a aspects of conduct risk which impact on aspects of conduct risk which impact member of the committee.
2 Scott Wheway was appointed as Chairman of the customer outcomes including marketing customer outcomes, including marketing committee on 19 February 2014. and competition issues or are covered by and competition issues.
A comprehensive 3 Gay Huey Evans stepped down as a member and the FCAs remit, now form part of this review of the Groups compliance with Chairman of the committee on 19 February 2014. committees Terms of Reference.
regulatory conduct issues was undertaken Accordingly the committees activities in The committee met on six occasions in and a new conduct risk policy and conduct 2014 were heavily focused on conduct- 2014.
The Group Company Secretary or her risk appetite were approved and a Grouprelated matters.
nominee acted as the Secretary to the wide framework for the consistent This report provides details of the role of committee.
management and reporting of conduct risk the Governance Committee and the work it The Chairman of the Board, Group was implemented.
has undertaken during the year.
Chief Executive Officer and members of The committee requested that certain senior management attended meetings by material subsidiaries establish separate Committee responsibilities invitation, where appropriate, or to present conduct committees to ensure sufficient reports.
The Chairman of the committee board time is given to this area and received The key responsibilities of the committee are reported to subsequent meetings of the updates from those committees on the to: Board on the committees work and the implementation of the new conduct risk Take a leadership role in shaping the Board received a copy of the agenda and framework.
corporate governance principles, culture the minutes of each meeting of the and ethical values of the Group in line committee.
There is cross-membership Governance with the Groups strategic priorities between each of the Board committees to The committee continued to focus on Set the Groups conduct and financial ensure that governance issues were strengthening the Groups subsidiary board crime risk appetites and oversee the appropriately communicated and taken into framework to ensure implementation of Groups profile against them account in the decisions of each committee.
best practice corporate governance Oversee the brand and reputation of the throughout the Group, being mindful of Group, ensuring that reputational risk is Committee activities during 2014 local laws, regulations and customs.
This consistent with the risk appetite approved included presentations from Business Units by the Board and the creation of long Whilst they are not mutually exclusive, the on their governance structures and term shareholder value following categories have been developed approving template Terms of Reference for Oversee the Groups conduct in relation to for the committee meeting agendas to subsidiary boards.
its corporate and societal obligations, ensure that sufficient coverage is given to The committee also maintained including setting the guidance, direction each element of the committees remit: oversight of appointments of NEDs and and policies for the Groups customer and succession planning for material company conduct: governance: regulatory and corporate responsibility CR agenda and financial crime: reputation: customer: subsidiary boards and received copies of the board effectiveness reviews undertaken by people and CR.
Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 85 85 its subsidiaries and the actions implemented People Committee performance and as a result of these reviews.
In addition, Throughout the year the committee effectiveness committee members attended several reviewed progress with regard to subsidiary board meetings in Spain, Poland embedding Avivas values, the engagement The committee undertook an annual review and Turkey.
of our people and the cultural development of its performance and effectiveness which The committee received a regular of Aviva, including employee diversity.
In concluded that overall the committee was summary of the Groups legal issues and early 2015, the committee's remit was effective in carrying out its duties.
litigation which had the potential to impact extended to include employee talent The committee agreed a number of the reputation of the Group.
Updates on management and development actions including: to refine its remit to corporate governance developments were programmes including reviewing proposals remove any potential overlap with the Risk also provided and, where appropriate, from management to create a sustainable Committees responsibilities: to provide actions were considered and implemented.
future workforce to meet current and clearer guidance to subsidiaries on the projected business needs.
standards of governance expected: and to Regulatory and financial crime The committee also continues to further build relationships with subsidiary The committee received regular updates on oversee the implementation of the People Chairmen.
regulatory developments which had the Thesis and the work in relation to the potential to materially impact the Group culture and values programme and received and reviewed and advised on a summary of the 2014 Voice of Aviva managements responses and actions in employee survey results.
Further details on response to regulatory issues.
The this area can be found in the Our people committee also ensured that the FCA was and communities section of the Strategic updated on the new conduct risk report.
framework and maintained an overview of the Groups relationships with regulatory Corporate Responsibility authorities in the UK and in other The committee continued to oversee the jurisdictions where the Group has a Groups conduct in relation to its corporate significant presence.
The committee and societal obligations.
The committee considered the Groups annual report on reviewed and approved the Groups financial crime which included a report community, social, human rights, from the Money Laundering Reporting environmental and employee-related Officer and maintained oversight of actions information for inclusion in the Strategic being taken to mitigate the Groups report.
exposure to financial crime, including The committee received progress reports implementation of the new Group-wide on all the Groups corporate responsibility framework for reporting financial crime and key performance indicators and received an conduct risks.
in-depth review of the business ethics code completion rates across all markets.
Reputation The committee also received a report on The committee received regular reports the Groups cluster munition and anticoncerning reputational, brand and personnel mines policy and approved franchise risks affecting the Group and actions to be taken in relation to the considered issues arising from developments application of this policy.
The committee in the media and in areas of public policy received and considered updates on health which could potentially impact the Group.
and safety issues within the Group and on the issue of stranded assets.
Customer The committee continues to have oversight Assurance over the Groups treatment of its customers In respect of the 2014 reporting year, and the impact of its products on its independent assurance on the Groups CR customer base.
The committee initiated a and related activities and reporting was detailed review of conduct issues arising provided to the committee by PwC.
from particular product lines, including Members of the committee were annuities, protection, equity release and interviewed as part of the external investment business, and considered actions assurance process and managements which could be taken to mitigate these risks resultant action plan were reviewed by the and improve the Groups products for its committee to assist in strengthening and customers.
setting the future direction of the CR The committee received a regular report programme.
on the Groups key customer metrics relating to customer retention, complaints, Corporate responsibility report conduct and values.
The committee approved the Groups CR non-financial metrics that can be found in the Strategic report and the Companys full CR report that can be found at www.
