Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 77 77 Assess the independence and objectivity In performing its duties, the committee had of the External Auditor access to the services of the CAO, the Approve and monitor the application of Group Company Secretary, senior financial the External Auditor Business Standard management and external professional Approve and monitor the application of advisers.
the Internal Audit Charter and Business During the year committee members Standard attended meetings of business unit Audit Committees in Poland, France and Spain.
Revised committee Terms of Reference were In November 2014, the committee adopted in February 2015 following an Chairman together with the Chairmen of annual refresh.
The full Terms of Reference the Risk and Governance Committees cofor the committee can be found on the hosted a two-day conference for the Audit Committee Companys website at Audit Committee Chairmen of the Board, Risk, Governance www.
com terms-of-reference, and are report and Audit Committees of the Groups report also available from the Group Company principal subsidiaries, their Chief Risk Glyn Glyn B Barker arker Secretary.
Officers, Chief Audit Officers and Chief Chair Chair o off t the he A Aud udit it Financial Officers.
In addition the NonCommittee Committee Committee membership and Executive Directors of the Company were attendance I am pleased to present the Audit invited, together with representatives of the Committees report for the year ended 31 External Auditor.
The agenda included The table below shows the committee December 2014. discussions on Avivas strategy: Avivas members during the year and their The principal purpose of the committee control environment and the role of Internal attendance at committee meetings.
is to assist the Board in discharging its Audit: Avivas Digital First strategy: and the responsibilities for monitoring the integrity Integrated Assurance Implementation IAI of the Groups financial statements.
Membership and attendance addition, we review the adequacy and Number of meetings Percentage 1 effectiveness of the Groups systems of Committee expertise and independence Committee member attended attendance internal control and monitor the Glyn Barker Chairman 11 100% 2 effectiveness, performance and objectivity Patricia Cross 10 91% The Board is satisfied that Glyn Barker, Michael Hawker 11 100% of the internal and external auditors.
Michael Hawker and Patricia Cross each 3 Sir Adrian Montague 10 91% During the year the committee meet the US requirements to be an audit 4 Scott Wheway 7 78% welcomed Scott Wheway as a member and committee financial expert.
1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the the committee is now comprised of five Glyn Barker is a chartered accountant committee member attended during the year whilst a independent NEDs.
I have been Chairman of and has held a number of senior positions at member of the committee.
2 Patricia Cross was unable to attend one meeting called the committee since May 2013.
 LLP PwC where, at short notice due to a prior commitment.
most recently, he was UK-Vice Chairman.
3 Sir Adrian was unable to attend one ad hoc meeting Committee responsibilities The committee is satisfied that Glyn Barker due to technological difficulties but did receive the papers for the meeting.
meets the US Securities and Exchange 3 Scott Wheway joined the committee on 20 February The committee acts independently of Commissions and Auditing Practices 2014 and had prior commitments which prevented management, to ensure that the interests of Boards Ethical Standards on auditor him being able to attend meetings in late March and shareholders are properly protected in April 2014. independence.
In addition the Board is relation to the financial reporting and the satisfied that he has recent and relevant The committee met on 11 occasions in 2014 effectiveness of the Groups systems of financial experience in accordance with the internal control.
of which one meeting was called at short Code and satisfies the requirements for notice.
The Chairman of the Company, The main responsibilities of the competence in accounting and or auditing committee are to: Group CEO, CFO, CAO, the Chief under the Disclosure and Transparency Accounting Officer and a representative of Review the significant issues and Rules.
judgements of management, and the the external auditor regularly attended Michael Hawker, a senior fellow of the committee meetings.
Other members of methodology and assumptions used in Financial Services Institute of Australasia, is a relation to the Groups financial senior management were also invited to former Chief Executive Officer and attend as appropriate to present reports.
statements and formal announcements Managing Director of Insurance Australia on the Groups financial performance, During the year the committee regularly held Group, and therefore has the necessary private sessions to discuss issues to be raised including the reserving position relating to financial expertise to meet the US the Groups life assurance and general with management in the main meeting, and requirements.
met separately with senior management, the insurance operations Patricia Cross has financial experience Review the Groups going concern CAO and the external auditor without gained through a number of senior management present.
The Group Company assumptions executive roles at National Australia Bank, Assess the effectiveness of the Groups Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Chase Manhattan Bank and Banque systems of internal control, including committee.
Nationale fide Paris and non-executive roles financial reporting, financial controls and The committee Chairman reported to at a number of financial services companies.
the Internal Audit function subsequent meetings of the Board on the She has also held honorary roles on the Consider and review the performance of committees work and the Board received a Australian Financial Centre Forum and the Chief Audit Officer CAO, and agree copy of the agenda and the minutes of each Financial Sector Advisory Council and meets his remuneration meeting of the committee.
the US financial expertise requirements.
Consider and make recommendations to There is cross-membership between Sir Adrian Montague has significant the Board on the appointment, each of the Board committees to ensure financial services industry experience reappointment, dismissal or resignation, that audit issues were appropriately through his former roles as Chairman of effectiveness and remuneration of the communicated and taken into account in Friends Provident plc and Deputy Chairman external auditor the decisions of each committee.
of UK Green Investment Bank plc.
| 78 78 A Aviva viva p plc lc Annu Annual al r report eport a and nd a accounts ccounts 2 2014 014 Directors and corporate governance report continued Scott Wheway was appointed to the For annuitant mortality and corporate bond Aviva Investors reached a settlement with committee during 2014, is currently a Noncredit default, an external benchmarking the FCA in relation to this and agreed to Executive Director of Santander UK plc and exercise indicated that Avivas assumptions pay a fine of 17.6 million.
Aviva has held a number of senior roles at Best were within a reasonable range relative to Investors has committed significant Buy Europe, Boots Company plc, the British its peers.
The committee was satisfied with resources to enhancing its control Retail Consortium and Tesco plc.
managements review of these assumptions.
Aviva Investors has fixed the During the year the committee issues, improved the systems and controls Committee activities during 2014 challenged the assumption for credit default and made substantial changes to the The work of the committee followed an in respect of UK commercial mortgages and management team.
agreed annual work plan and fell under four was satisfied with managements review at main areas: financial statements and Full Year 2014 that the allowance was Other significant issues accounting policies, internal controls, appropriate.
The committee considered the impact of a oversight of the internal audit function and An ad hoc meeting was held in number of changes in legal and regulatory oversight of external audit.
The committees December 2014 at the request of the requirements on the Group, including: the work in each of these areas is described committee to give further insight into the UK Governments 2014 budget below.
The chart below shows how the judgements for the demographic announcements on annuities: the committee allocated its time during 2014. assumptions and economic methodology introduction of the Strategic report and the adopted by the Aviva UK & Ireland Life requirement for the directors to state that Audit Committee allocation business for the Full Year 2014. the Groups financial statements are fair, of agenda time The committee also reviewed the balanced and understandable for the prudence requirements around the margins Groups 2013 financial statements onwards.
on IFRS assumptions for the life and The committee reviewed the impact of pensions business.
the launch of the initial phase of a project to The Groups general insurance reserves use Aviva International Insurance Limited as were reviewed including understanding the the primary reinsurance vehicle for the key developments, risks and uncertainties Group.
The committee was satisfied with managements Internal control analysis and that the methodology and The committee received quarterly updates assumptions applied in calculating the year on the effectiveness of the FRCF framework end liabilities are appropriate.
and discussed rectification of any The committee considered a change in deficiencies in controls.
The committee the model used to value equity release continued to challenge management to mortgage loans held by the UK Life Annuity improve the quality of the overall control Financial statements and business.
The new methodology environment across the Group and reaccounting policies 29% incorporates more explicit assumptions for emphasised managements role in External audit, auditor engagement property growth and the risk around future identifying and addressing control issues.
The committee was satisfied this context, management identified the Internal audit 17% with the change including the valuation at following nine major control improvement Internal controls, including financial Full Year 2014. topics requiring focus in 2014, each topic reporting control framework being sponsored by a member of the Group and financial reporting developments 34% Other matters Executive: IT security: underwriting risk Other 8% The Group adopted amendments to IAS 32 accumulation for the General Insurance Financial statements and accounting Financial Instruments: Presentation business: data governance protection: Aviva policies regarding the offsetting of financial assets Investors including Group oversight : UK The committee reviewed the Groups and financial liabilities during the year.
The Commercial Finance: fraud management: financial announcements, the Annual report committee was satisfied that the restated second line effectiveness: Turkey Life and and accounts and associated presentation of the financial position for the governance arrangements for business units documentation, the half year results and the Full Year 2013 was appropriate.
that have been identified for disposal.
interim management statements, and the The committee considered Management reported to the committee going concern assumptions in relation to managements best estimate for the throughout the year on their progress in the Annual report and accounts and half completion adjustments relating to the addressing the major control improvement year results.
The committee placed sale of Aviva USA.
topics and Internal Audit provided their view particular emphasis on their fair The committee considered the carrying of managements assessment.
Whilst presentation, the reasonableness of the value of the goodwill in the Groups Spanish progress has been made in addressing the judgement factors applied and the business and was satisfied with the nine topics, further work remains to be appropriateness of significant accounting impairment testing.
Two new topics have also been policies used in their preparation.
considered the held for sale classification of added to monitor in 2015: disaster recovery The committee considered a number of a number of businesses.
in the UK data centres and outsourcing.
The significant issues in relation to the financial With regard to the Groups accounts committee will continue to monitor statements which are described in more prepared on a Market Consistent progress in addressing all these topics in detail below.
Embedded Value basis, the committee 2015.
The committee considered the considered and challenged the key potential impact on the control environment Key Financial Assumptions assumptions presented by management.
by the proposed acquisition of Friends Life The committee reviewed the key In the 2013 Annual report and and will monitor this during integration assumptions used in calculating long-term accounts we reported that we had should the transaction complete.
business contract liabilities, including the identified controls failings in Aviva The roll out of the Integrated Assurance annuitant mortality assumptions and credit Investors that happened between August Implementation IAI programme has default allowance on the corporate bond 2005 to June 2013.
In February 2015, continued during the year.
The IAI provides portfolio adopted by the UK Life business.
Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 79 79 a basis for a common understanding of the Assess and report on the effectiveness of improve effectiveness which were made as respective responsibilities of first, second the design and operation of the part of the independent review of the and third lines of defence for controls and a framework of controls which enable risk function commissioned in the previous year.
common approach to identifying, to be assessed and managed As a result the audit planning process was documenting and testing the key controls in Assess and report on the effectiveness of enhanced to increase management the Group.
Progress has been made to management actions to address involvement and a significantly more embed the IAF into the Group.
The IAF is a deficiencies in the framework of controls structured approach to assessing and mechanism to bring together all the Investigate and report on cases of communicating audit coverage was information on the operation of the control suspected financial crime and employee introduced.
Audit reporting was enhanced environment from management, Internal fraud and malpractice to assess and recognise management Audit and the Risk function: to provide a Undertake designated advisory projects awareness of risk and control issues and holistic view of the status and quality of for management provided that they do reinforce first and second line responsibility.
controls and identify common themes and not threaten the functions actual or The approach to stakeholder management expedite action to remediate deficiencies.
perceived independence from was strengthened through the development The committee reported to the Board management of a stakeholder management tool, regarding the effectiveness of the Groups together with a range of resources to help The Internal Audit Business Standard sets overall risk management and internal manage stakeholders and promote the out the requirements for management control systems including the risk function across the Group.
The reward across the Group to support Internal Audit management system in relation to the approach was reviewed to ensure that it in achieving its objectives.
It requires financial reporting process.
The committee was in line with industry and regulatory businesses to design and operate processes worked closely with the Risk Committee in developments and the function successfully and controls to satisfy the mandatory its overall review of the Companys systems achieved a high level of movement of staff requirements in the standard based on the of risk management and internal controls.
both into and from other parts of the size and complexity of the business and the The systems of internal control extend Group.
Work was also completed to nature of the risks and challenges it faces.
to the Groups business units, each of which improve efficiency through developing and Any breaches of the Standard must be has an Audit Committee that provides an implementing a range of initiatives, in reported to the CAO and others as oversight role for its business.
Membership particular through increasing the appropriate.
The committee reviewed and of these business unit Audit Committees is effectiveness of the functions data analytics approved the updated Internal Audit largely comprised of Non-Executive Directors capabilities.
In addition, an annual Charter and Business Standard in late 2014. of subsidiary companies.
The CAO attended programme of internal quality assurance business unit Audit Committee meetings was completed and actions arising were Annual plan and focus of reviews in throughout the year and reported back on implemented to continue to improve the 2014 their effectiveness to the committee.
The Internal Audit Plan for 2014 was The committees Terms of Reference reviewed and approved by the committee require it to establish and monitor Chief Audit Officer on a half-yearly basis in January and July procedures for dealing with complaints The CAO had direct access to the Board 2014.
Planned reviews reflected the from employees in relation to accounting Chairman, the committee Chairman and priorities in the Groups 2014-2016 issues.
The committee reviews the the committee members.
The committee Operational Plan and were prioritised procedures annually and received regular worked with the Group CEO to determine following a risk-based assessment of the updates from the CAO however, no the CAOs objectives and evaluate his levels business and a review against the Groups significant complaints were received during of achievement, and to approve the CAOs risk policies.
The reviews carried out covered the year.
A description of the Companys remuneration.
His annual performance an extensive sample of controls over all risk systems of internal control and the Groups related bonus was unconnected to the types, business units and regulated entities risk management framework is included on Groups financial performance.
The CAO and covered business as usual activities and pages 73 to 74. reported to the Group CEO during the year.
an assessment of change programmes.
The Regular reports were provided to the Although he is a member of the Group plan covered the implementation of committee of any malpractice reported Executive, the committee is satisfied that the corporate and commercial decisions: through the Groups malpractice reporting CAOs independence has been maintained maintenance of adequate financial strength service.
None of the reports lodged in 2014 as adequate safeguards are in place to and resilience: the effectiveness of made allegations of financial malpractice.
maintain his independence, authority and governance, decision making and risk standing.
The committee remained satisfied management: legal and regulatory Internal audit that the Internal Audit function had obligations: the availability, security and The Internal Audit function reports to the sufficient resources during the year to recoverability of IT systems: management of Board primarily via the committee, and to undertake its duties.
relationships with key partners and the management on the effectiveness of the effectiveness of oversight of risk Groups systems of internal control and the External Auditor management in the Groups joint ventures adequacy of these systems to manage PwC was appointed as the Groups External and investments.
The committee received business risks and to safeguard the Groups Auditor Auditor in 2012 following a formal quarterly reports from the CAO on audit assets and resources.
The external audit contract reviews carried out, managements will be put out to tender at least once every response to the findings and progress in Internal Audit Charter and Business ten years.
In November Standard The committee performed its annual the committee considered and approved the The Charter sets out the purpose, functions, review of the independence, effectiveness Internal Audit Functional Plan for the period scope and responsibilities of the Internal and objectivity of the Auditor.
Audit function and how it maintains was conducted by means of a independence from the first and second line questionnaire, completed Group-wide by Effectiveness of the internal audit management of the Group.
The four main members of senior management and function functions of Internal Audit are to: members of the Groups finance community The function made significant progress in and the committee.
The questionnaire implementing the recommendations to | 80 80 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors and corporate governance report continued sought opinions on the importance of implementation is a major project requiring certain criteria and the performance of the substantial model validation assurance that Auditor against those criteria.
Based on this the Company believes is most appropriately review, the committee concluded that the performed by the principal Auditor.
In view audit service of PwC was fit for purpose of the significance and scale of this work, although some efficiencies were identified the committee specifically assessed the in relation to the audit process which were suitability of PwC to provide this service.
fully addressed during the year.
In addition the Group paid PwC 0.2 The Company has an External Auditor million 2013: 0.2 million in relation to Business Standard in place which is aimed at the audit of Group occupational pension safeguarding and supporting the schemes.
independence and objectivity of the The Group paid 1.5 million to PwC in Auditor.
The Standard is in full compliance relation to other non-audit services.
This with all UK, US and International Federation included 0.5 million relating to a controls of Accountants IFAC rules and takes into review at Aviva Investors and 1.0 million account the Auditing Practices Board Ethical for a number of other, individually smaller Standards for Auditors.
In line with the External Auditor The Standard regulates the appointment Business Standard, the committee satisfied of former audit employees to senior finance itself that for these engagements, robust positions in the Group and sets out the controls including appropriate levels of approach to be taken by the Group when review were in place to ensure that PwCs using the non-audit services of the principal objectivity and independence was Auditor.
It distinguishes between i those safeguarded, and concluded that it was in services where an independent view is the interests of the Company to purchase required and services that should be these services from PwC due to their performed by the Auditor such as statutory specific expertise.
Further details are and non-statutory audit and assurance provided in note 13. work : ii prohibited services where the independence of the Auditor could be Committee performance and threatened and the Auditor must not be effectiveness used: and iii other non-audit services where the Auditor may be used.
Non-audit The committee undertook an annual review services where the external auditor may be of its performance and effectiveness which used include: non-recurring internal controls concluded that overall the committee was such as the work commissioned in relation effective in carrying out its duties.
The to Aviva Investors referred to below and risk committee agreed that its priorities for 2015 management reviews excluding should include: monitoring implementation outsourcing of internal audit work, advice of compliance with the requirements of SII: on financial reporting and regulatory continuing to monitor improvements in the matters, due diligence on acquisitions and control environment: and increasing the disposals, project assurance and advice, tax level of reporting from business unit Audit compliance services, and employee tax Committees.
During the year the committee received quarterly reports of compliance against the Standard.
The Group paid 14.7 million to PwC for audit and audit-related assurance services in 2014, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Companys financial statements, the audit of Group subsidiaries, additional fees relating to the prior year audit of Group subsidiaries and auditrelated assurance services 2013: 16.6 million.
The fees for other services, which are in compliance with applicable UK, US and International Federation of Accountants independence rules, included MCEV supplementary reporting, advice on accounting risk and regulatory matters, reporting on internal controls, reporting on the Groups Individual Capital Assessment and Economic Capital and work in relation to preparing the business for SII implementation, were 11.5 million 2013: 7.6 million, giving a total fee to PwC of 26.2 million 2013: 24.2 million.
The SII assurance fees included in this were 6.4 million 2013: 1.5 million.
