Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Audit Committee Report The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee remain the review of the Groups financial systems and controls in order to ensure that they are operating effectively and oversight of the preparation of the Groups financial statements, including significant judgements made that affect the reported results.
We also oversee the work of the external auditors, approve their remuneration and recommend their appointment.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for assisting the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In 2014, both the Group and the environment in which it operates continued to evolve.
Loan loss allowances remained the area of our principal focus, but we also looked at risks David Morrison arising from our systems and controls, in particular, our IT Chairman of the Audit Committee controls, as well as the strength of our external and internal audit processes.
We worked closely with the newly formed Risk Committee to ensure that responsibility for risk oversight was divided appropriately between the two Committees.
We welcome the changes to the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, published in September 2014.
These changes will apply to BGH from its 2015 financial year and will allow us to further strengthen our role as a key independent oversight committee adding value to the Group.
The Audit Committee has delegated authority from the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website at http: www.
Further details on how the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities and concluded that it is effective are provided in this Committee report.
David Morrison Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 April 2015 Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 79 Directors Governance Statement Accountability continued Key purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review the Groups financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness of internal financial controls and the internal and external audit processes.
It also has an important role in the Groups risk management framework.
The Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all of which have been accepted during the year.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the table below.
The full list of Committee responsibilities are in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website at http: www.
Financial reporting Internal control and risk management External audit Monitors the integrity of the financial Reviews the effectiveness of systems Makes recommendations concerning statements of the Group, reviews and processes for internal control the appointment, re-appointment and the appropriateness of the Groups and risk management related to removal of the external auditor.
accounting policies and the quality financial reporting.
Oversees the relationship with the and consistency of the application Considers the major findings of any external auditor, including the terms of of such accounting policies.
internal investigations into control engagement including remuneration Reviews and challenges, where weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and their effectiveness, independence necessary, the actions, estimates and managements response.
and judgements of management, Monitors IT, cyber-security, Agrees the policy for and provision in relation to the interim and annual compliance, corporate security and of non-audit services.
similar areas of operational risk.
Agrees the policy on the employment Reviews the content of the annual of former employees of the external report and accounts and interim auditor.
management statements and advises Reviews the qualifications, expertise the Board on whether, taken as and resources of the external auditor a whole, they are fair, balanced and the effectiveness of the audit and understandable.
Assesses and challenges the going Approves the annual audit plan, to concern assessment undertaken ensure that it is consistent with the by management.
scope of the audit engagement and coordinated with the activities of Groups audit team.
Reviews the findings of audits with Key responsibilities the external auditor, considering Internal audit managements responsiveness Monitors the scope, extent and to the auditors findings and effectiveness of the Groups internal recommendations.
audit function and the internal Monitors the performance, objectivity audit programme.
and effectiveness of the external audit Reviews the adequacy of the Group by an annual assessment and also internal audits resources and standing the results of any reviews published within the Group.
by the Financial Reporting Councils Reviews and approves the internal Audit Quality Review.
audit policy and annual internal audit Whistleblowing and conflicts of interest plan, including methodology, as well as any proposed changes to the Reviews arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise planned scope of work.
Receives reports from internal audit concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting on the control environment and considers the major findings of or other matters.
Assesses actual and potential any significant internal audit, and managements response.
conflicts of interest and assists the Board in its review of the Reviews internal audits selfassessment of performance permissibility of such conflicts.
and assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
80 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Composition of the Audit Committee and meetings In 2014, we continued to scrutinise the appropriateness of the The composition of the Committee and the members attendance allowance for loan losses.
The main judgements arose around during the year is listed on page 67 of this Annual Report.
Our the timing of the recognition of any given impairment and the Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non-Executive size of the loan loss.
Throughout the year, management reported Directors.
on the Banks principal borrowers as well as on the largest impaired and non-performing loans.
Management also reported to us on With respect to the Committees qualifications and background, the methodologies for identifying assets at risk, categorising the Mr Morrison is a trained securities lawyer who specialised in financial loan portfolio and determining provisioning rates, as well as the disclosure for over 25 years: Mr Kiknavelidze is a trained financial assumptions applied in calculating the provisions for loan losses.
analyst skilled in financial statement analysis who manages his In connection with these reports, we challenged the underlying own investment fund: Mr Bradley served as a managing director at assumptions made by management with respect to individually Goldman Sachs, where, immediately prior to joining the Companys and collectively impaired loans and the system of controls to Board and Audit Committee, he sat on various audit committees prevent and detect errors in the estimation for loan losses.
within the organisation and assessed internal audit functions and internal controls.
Our Committee believes that each member has We were satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
recent and relevant financial experience in satisfaction of the The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.
The biographies of the members of the Committee are set out Systems of internal control on pages 70 and 71 of this Annual Report.
As the quality of Groups financial statements are dependent on the effectiveness of our internal control systems, in 2014, we The Committee works to a planned programme of activities focused sought assurances on the design and operating effectiveness of on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle and standing these systems, with increased focus on the Groups IT controls.
items that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference.
Our We received reports from management on the design and operation meetings are regularly attended by the Bank CFO, head of Internal of the internal control framework and the testing of these controls.
Audit, head of Internal Control, Security and AML Compliance and While we have concluded that the internal controls and systems Risk departments, and occasionally by the Chief Risk Officer of in place are effective and that the data and reports produced by the Bank and CEO.
The external auditor also attends the regularly these systems ensure that the financial statements are prepared to scheduled Committee meetings.
We hold regular separate private a high quality, we have asked internal audit to conduct a review of sessions with the heads of Internal Audit and Internal Control, the financial control framework in 2015.
We will also be looking Security and AML Compliance departments and the external auditor.
closely at our IT systems this year.
These sessions, which are not attended by management, allow us to discuss any issues of concern in more detail and directly with Cyber risks the audit teams.
From time to time, other members of management Data security is critical to our business, as it is for all banks.
Cyber are invited to attend meetings in order to provide a deeper level risk is monitored under the Groups integrated control framework.
of insight into key issues and developments.
Management reported on the frequency and impact of cyber attacks, and we determined that no material breaches of our Meetings of the Committee take place prior to the Board meeting firewalls occurred in 2014.
We intend to focus even more carefully in order for the Committee to report its activities and matters of on cyber security risks in 2015. particular relevance to the Board.
Significant issues considered With support and input from the external auditor, we considered the following primary areas of judgement: Change in loan loss provisioning methodology and appropriateness of allowance for loan losses As of 1 January 2014, the Bank introduced a new loan loss provisioning methodology.
Developed in consultation with Deloitte, the new provisioning methodology is based on statistical assessment of probability of default and loss given default.
The Committee has discussed the basis of the new methodology in detail with management and the external auditor and we believe that it is a refinement of the previous methodology and will allow better allocation of Cost of Risk.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 81 Directors Governance Statement Accountability continued Oversight of internal audit and external audit Each year, we consider the reappointment of the external auditor, Internal audit including the rotation of the audit partner.
The external auditor is In addition to receiving internal audits input on the control required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group every environment, we monitor the scope, extent and effectiveness five years.
The current lead audit partner has been in place for of the internal audit function and seek to ensure it is adequately three years.
It is our responsibility to recommend to the Board the resourced and focused on the correct issues.
We also review appointment or reappointment or removal of the external auditor.
and approve the annual internal audit plan which includes a discussion of risk assessment.
We review the plan on a We are cognisant of the current and emerging requirements regular basis, including any changes proposed to the scope governing the appointment of external auditors, notably the of work, as well as discuss and approve changes to internal mandatory re-tendering requirements of the UK Corporate audit methodology.
Governance Code and Competition Commission.
EY was appointed as our Group statutory auditor by shareholders at our 2012 AGM, At each physical Audit Committee meeting in 2014, we received following a competitive tender process and subsequent Audit reports from internal audit on audit activities, progress of the Committee and Board recommendation.
Shareholders reapproved internal audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the EYs appointment at the 2014 AGM.
In light of the re-tendering action plans to address these issues and resource requirements requirements, we intend to carry out a review at an appropriate of the Internal Audit Department.
We also reviewed and monitored time between now and 2022. managements responsiveness to internal audits findings.
We have sought assurance and are comfortable that no We also reviewed internal audits self-assessment of its performance undue pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees and concluded that the internal audit function is effective and so as to ensure that there is no risk to audit work being respected by management and conforms to the standards set conducted effectively.
by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
In order to further ensure independence of the external auditor, External audit the Group has in place a policy to govern the non-audit services We are responsible for monitoring the performance, objectivity that may be provided by the external auditor, which sets out the and effectiveness of the external auditor.
We assessed this in circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to the light of the requirements of the UK Code and FRC guidance.
Allowable services are preapproved In doing this, we considered: up to 100,000.
Any permissible non-audit service that exceeds this threshold requires approval from the Audit Committee and the audit partner and the audit team, in particular the must be robustly justified and, if appropriate, tendered, before coordination between the EY London and Tbilisi teams: it is approved.
the audit planning approach and execution: the role of management and management feedback The Audit Committees policy on tax advisory services is to not on the performance of EY: use the external auditor unless there is a very strong case for not communication with the Audit Committee: seeking an alternative supplier.
If non-audit services are undertaken support of the work of the Audit Committee: by the auditor, the Committee receives a quarterly report on such the quality of EYs insights and value-added assistance: non-audit services so that it can monitor the types of services being independence and objectivity: and provided and the fees incurred.
On an annual basis, the Committee the content of formal reporting.
reviews the Group policy on the provision of non-audit services in order to ensure that the objectivity and the independence of the We also considered the FRCs inspection of EYs audit of BGH, external auditor is safeguarded and the terms of the policy are the Audit Quality Inspection Report of EY for 2013 2014 as well as complied with fully by EY.
other FRC guidance related to the role and method of evaluating the external auditor.
The auditor did not receive any fees for non-audit work in 2014.
Following this evaluation, we formed our own judgement Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited which was consistent with managements view and reported or allowed under our policy can be found on our website to the Board that: at http: www.
the audit team was sound and reliable, providing high-quality execution and service: the quality of the audit work was of a high standard: EYs independence and objectivity were strongly affirmed: EY was in a strong position to challenge management on its approach to key judgements: and appropriate discussions were held with the Audit Committee during the audit planning process.
82 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Review of the fair, balanced and understandable requirement in respect of Annual Reports Having been tasked by the Board to advise it, we examined the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
We did this by satisfying ourselves that there was a robust process of review and challenge at different levels within the Group to ensure balance and consistency.
In doing so, we directly reviewed the overall messages and tone of the Annual Report with the CEO and CFO.
We also considered other information regarding the Groups performance and business presented to the Board during the period as well as the Boards re-formulation of the Groups strategy in November 2014.
After consideration of all of this information, we are satisfied that, when taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Committee effectiveness review An externally facilitated review of the Committee was performed by Lintstock in December 2014.
The evaluation principally addressed the composition of the Committee, the review and testing of the work of the internal and external auditors as well as the quality of financial reporting, the assessment of internal controls and risk management within the scope of the Committees responsibilities as well as the division of responsibilities between the Committee and the Risk Committee.
The effectiveness evaluation concluded that the Committee operates and performs effectively.
As mentioned above, our priorities for 2015 will be: the Groups internal financial control system: the Groups IT systems: and cyber-security.
We will also continue to focus on provisions for loan losses and other areas where management judgement has a significant impact on our accounts.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 83
