Directors Governance Statement Leadership There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all Leadership matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
The role of the unitary Board Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote the long-term success The Chairman seeks input from the Non-Executive Directors of the Group by directing management in creating and delivering ahead of each Board meeting in order to ensure that any particular sustainable shareholder value.
We do this by setting the Groups matters raised by Non-Executive Directors are on the agenda to be strategy and overseeing its implementation by management.
While discussed at the meeting.
In addition, the Chairman meets with the our ultimate focus is long-term growth, the Group also needs to CEO after each meeting to agree the actions to be followed up and deliver on short-term objectives and we seek to ensure that to discuss how effective the meeting was.
management strikes the right balance between the two.
Board Committees We are mindful of our wider obligations and consider the impact To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure there our decisions will have on the Groups various stakeholders, such is independent oversight of financial, audit, internal control and risk as our employees, our shareholders, our customers and clients, the issues, review of remuneration as well as oversight and review of environment and our community as a whole.
In setting and monitoring Board and executive succession planning, the Board has delegated the execution of our strategy, we aim to ensure that we maintain an certain responsibilities to Board Committees.
effective system of risk management and internal control, so that growth is delivered in a controlled and sustainable way.
In 2014, the Board had four Committees, comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors: the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specific key the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
decisions have been reserved for approval by the Board.
A full formal Each Board Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, which are schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board can be found approved by the Board and reviewed annually, and can be found on on our website, at http: www.
Clearly defined roles of the chairman, The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on the CEO and Non-Executive Directors matters discussed at Board Committee meetings.
You will find later Each of the Chairman, CEO and Non-Executive Directors has in this section reports from the Chairman of each Board Committee clearly defined roles within our Board structure.
A description of on the Committees activities in 2014 and priorities for 2015. these roles can be found on our website, at http: www.
In addition, each Board Committee provides a standing invitation for any Non-Executive Director to attend Committee meetings Operation of the Board rather than just limiting attendance to Committee members.
We schedule in person Board meetings at least four times a year, for a period of two to three days each time.
We also hold meetings at our London offices, with Directors either attending in person or via teleconference.
When the need arises, we will schedule additional meetings at short notice to discuss other matters relevant to the Board.
In addition, in 2014, all Directors attended two dedicated strategy sessions and the annual investor day.
In total, we met as a Board eleven times during the year.
At each regularly scheduled meeting, we receive reports from the Bank CEO and Deputy CEO Finance on the performance and results of the Group.
The Deputy CEO of each of the business segments will regularly update the Board on the performance, strategic developments and initiatives in his respective segment throughout the year.
The Banks Chief Risk Officer, Group Deputy CEO Legal and Group Head of Investor Relations also regularly present to the full Board.
The Board also receives updates from Group operating functions on internal control, compliance, human resources and corporate responsibility matters.
66 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information 2014 Committee membership Audit Risk Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Neil Janin Chairman Member David Morrison Chairman Member Member Al Breach Member Member Chairman Kim Bradley Member Chairman Member Kaha Kiknavelidze Member Member Member Tamaz Georgadze Member Member Bozidar Djelic Member Member Board and Committee meeting attendance Details of Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2014 are as follows: Audit Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings eligible to eligible to eligible to eligible to eligible to attend attend attend attend attend Board attendance attended attended attended attended attended Neil Janin Chairman 11 11 2 2 2 2 Irakli Gilauri Executive Director 11 11 Non-Executive Directors David Morrison 11 11 9 9 2 2 2 2 Alasdair Breach 11 11 4 4 2 2 2 2 Kim Bradley 11 11 9 9 4 4 2 2 Kaha Kiknavelidze 11 11 9 9 4 4 2 2 Tamaz Georgadze 11 11 4 4 2 2 Bozidar Djelic 11 10 4 4 2 2 Note that the Non-Executive members of the Board of BGH are identical to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 67 Directors Governance Statement Leadership continued Board of Directors 1.
Alasdair Breach Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 68 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information 5.
Bozidar Djelic Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 69 Directors Governance Statement Leadership continued 1.
David Morrison Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Mr Janin was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 24 October 2011 David Morrison was appointed as the Senior Independent and has been re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Non-Executive Director of BGH on 24 October 2011 and has been Mr Janin serves as Chairman of BGHs Board and Nomination re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Morrison Committee as well as a member of BGHs Remuneration Committee.
assumed the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee in December Mr Janin also serves as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the 2013, prior to which he served as a member of the Committee.
Bank and as a member of its Remuneration Committee, positions he Mr Morrison is also a member of BGHs Remuneration and has held since 2010.
Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Janin Nomination Committees, and serves as Vice-Chairman of the will resign as Chairman of the Bank Supervisory Board, but will continue Banks Supervisory Board and as a member of the Banks Audit to be a member of the Bank Supervisory Board.
Mr Janin is also a and Remuneration Committees, positions he has held since 2010. member of the Supervisory Board of GHG.
Mr Morrison is also a member of the Supervisory Board of GHG.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mr Janin serves as counsel to CEOs of both for-profit and non-profit Prior to joining the Bank Supervisory Board and Board of BGH, organisations and continues to provide consulting services to McKinsey Mr Morrison worked for 28 years at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, where & Company.
Prior to joining the Bank in 2010, Mr Janin was a Director he served as Managing Partner of the firms Continental European of McKinsey & Company, based in its Paris office, for over 27 years, offices.
His practice focused on advising public companies in a from 1982 until his retirement.
At McKinsey & Company, he conducted transactional context, from capital raisings and IPOs to mergers and engagements in the retail, asset management and corporate banking acquisitions.
Key banking clients he advised include Banco Espirito sectors, and was actively involved in every aspect of organisational Santo in Portugal and Germanys development bank, Kreditanstalt practice, including design, leadership, governance, performance fr Wiederaufbau KfW.
He also served on the Board of Directors of enhancement and transformation.
In 2009, while serving as a member KfWs finance subsidiary for 20 years.
Mr Morrison is the author of of the French Institute of Directors, Mr Janin authored a position paper several publications on securities law-related topics, and has been on the responsibilities of the Board of Directors with regards to the recognised as a leading lawyer in Germany and France.
design and implementation of a companys strategy.
Before joining McKinsey & Company, Mr Janin worked for Chase Manhattan Bank In 2008, Mr Morrison became the Founding CEO of the Caucasus now JP Morgan Chase in New York and Paris, and Procter & Gamble Nature Fund CNF, a charitable trust fund dedicated to nature in Toronto.
Mr Janin has practised in Europe, Asia and North America.
conservation in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, a position in which he continues to serve.
Mr Janin is also a Director of Neil Janin LTD, a company through which he provides his ongoing consulting services.
Education: Mr Morrison received his undergraduate degree from Yale College, Education: received his law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, Mr Janin holds an MBA from York University, Toronto, and a joint honours and was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Frankfurt.
degree in Economics and Accounting from McGill University, Montreal.
Irakli Gilauri Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Al Breach was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an Executive Director of BGH on of BGH on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders at each at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Breach serves as Chairman of BGHs AGM thereafter.
Mr Gilauri has served as CEO of BGH since his Remuneration Committee and serves as a member of BGHs appointment in 2011, and also serves as CEO of the Bank, a position Nomination Committee and recently established Risk Committee.
Mr Gilauri is also Chairman of the Mr Breach also serves as a member of the Banks Supervisory Board Supervisory Board of GHG, insurance company Aldagi and the and Chairman of the Banks Remuneration Committee, positions he Tree of Life Foundation and a member of the Supervisory Board has held since 2010, and has also been appointed to the Banks of the following subsidiaries: Agron Group, BNB, Galt & Taggart recently established Risk Committee.
Mr Gilauri has also recently joined the Supervisory Board of GGU.
Skills and experience: In 2013, Mr Breach founded Gemsstock Ltd. a UK FCA-regulated Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Gilauri will resign from his fund manager, where he also serves as an executive Director.
position as CEO of the Bank and will assume the role of Chairman of In 2010, Mr Breach founded Furka Advisors AG, a Swiss-based asset the Bank Supervisory Board and CEO of the newly formed Georgian management firm and served as an executive Director until founding holding company.
Gemsstock Ltd. Gemsstock Ltd. manages the Gemsstock Fund, which was previously called the Gemsstock Growth Fund and managed by Skills and experience: Mr Breach at Furka Advisors AG.
His previous career was in research Before his employment with the Bank, Mr Gilauri was a banker in investment banks, principally in Russia.
In January 2003, Mr Breach at the EBRDs Tbilisi and London offices for five years, where joined Brunswick UBS later UBS Russia as Chief Economist, and later he worked on transactions involving debt and private equity was appointed Head of Research and Managing Director until October investments in Georgian companies.
From 1998 to 2002, Mr Breach was a Russia and FSU Former Soviet Union economist at Goldman Sachs, based in Moscow.
Education: Mr Breach is also the co-founder of The Browser.
com, a web-based Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree in Business Studies, curator of current affairs writing, established in 2008.
Economics and Finance from the University of Limerick, Ireland, in 1998.
He was later awarded the Chevening Scholarship, granted Mr Breach serves as a director of Gemsstock Ltd. the Gemsstock by the British Council, to study at the Cass Business School of Fund, The Browser and Furka Holdings AG, all of which are private City University, London, where he obtained his MSc in Banking entities.
He is also an advisor to East Capital.
70 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Education: Education: Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics from the London School Mr Bradley holds an MA in International Affairs from the Columbia of Economics and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and University School of International Affairs and an undergraduate Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
degree in English Literature from the University of Arizona.
Tamaz Georgadze Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Kaha Kiknavelidze was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Tamaz Georgadze was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of BGH on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by Director of BGH on 19 December 2013 and was elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Kiknavelidze also serves shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Mr Georgadze serves as a member as a member of BGHs Audit and Nomination Committee and newly of BGHs Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mr Georgadze was also established Risk Committee.
Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as a appointed to the Bank Supervisory Board in December 2013.
He also member of the Banks Supervisory Board and Audit Committee, serves as a member of the Banks newly established Risk Committee.
positions he has held since 2008, and has also been appointed to the Banks recently established Risk Committee.
Skills and experience: In 2013, Mr Georgadze founded SavingGlobal GmbH, a company Skills and experience: which launched the first global deposit intermediation in Europe Mr Kiknavelidze is the founder and Managing Partner of Rioni Capital and he continues to serve as its Executive Director.
Prior to founding Partners LLP and an Executive Director of Rioni Capital Services Ltd, this company, Mr Georgadze had a 10-year career at McKinsey & an investment management company he continues to operate from Company in Berlin, where he served as a Partner from 2009 to 2013.
Mr Kiknavelidze has over 15 years experience in the equity At McKinsey & Company, he conducted engagements with banks markets, including serving as Executive Director of UBS, where he in Germany, Switzerland, Russia, Georgia and Vietnam, focusing on supervised the Russian oil and gas research team.
Prior to joining UBS, strategy, risk identification and management, deposit and investment he spent eight years at Troika Dialog, initially covering metals and mining products, operations and sales.
Prior to joining McKinsey & Company, and the utilities sectors and, later, as Deputy Head of Research and Mr Georgadze worked as an aide to the President of Georgia in the Associate Partner, leading the oil and gas team.
Mr Kiknavelidze began Foreign Relations Department from 1994 to 1995. his career at the Bank as a Financial Manager in 1994.
Save for his role at SavingGlobal GmbH, Mr Georgadze does not Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as an Executive Director of Scholae Mundi hold any other directorships.
Foundation, a charity, and as a Non-Executive Director of the Georgian Stock Exchange and OAS Zontik SICAV, a Luxembourg based fund.
Education: Mr Georgadze holds two PhDs, one in Economics from Tbilisi State Education: University and the other in Agricultural Economics from JustusMr Kiknavelidze received his undergraduate degree in Economics Liebig University Gieen, Germany.
Mr Georgadze also studied Law with honours from the Georgian Agrarian University in Tbilisi, at Justus-Liebig Universitt Gieen and graduated with honours.
Georgia, and received his MBA from Emory University.
Kim Bradley Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Bozidar Djelic was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director Kim Bradley was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of of BGH on 19 December 2013 and was elected by shareholders at the BGH on 19 December 2013 and was elected by shareholders at the 2014 2014 AGM.
Mr Djelic serves as a member of BGHs Risk and Nomination AGM.
Mr Bradley serves as Chairman of the BGH Risk Committee and a Committees.
Mr Djelic was also appointed to the Bank Supervisory member of BGHs Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mr Bradley was Board in December 2013.
He also serves as a member of the Banks also appointed to the Bank Supervisory Board in December 2013.
He newly established Risk Committee.
also serves as Chairman of the newly established Bank Risk Committee and a member the Banks Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Since January 2014, Mr Djelic has served as Managing Director in the Skills and experience: Sovereign Advisory Department of Lazard, based in Paris.
Mr Djelic also Mr Bradley retired from Goldman Sachs in early 2013, following currently serves as a member of EBRDs Transition to Transition Senior 15 years as a professional in the Real Estate Principal Investments Advisory Group.
Prior to this, he served as Deputy Prime Minister for and Realty Management divisions, where he focused on investment European Integration and Minister of Science and Technological in both European real estate and distressed debt.
Development of Serbia from 2008 to 2011.
From 2007 to 2008, Bozidar served as sole Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, and as Governor of the In addition to his investment activities, Mr Bradley led Goldmans asset World Bank Group and Deputy Governor of the EBRD.
From 2005 to management affiliates in France, Italy and Germany, where he was 2007, he was Crdit Agricole Groups Director for Eastern Europe and involved in financial and tax audits as well as management of internal the FSU, leading the acquisition and management of several banks in audit activities.
He has also served as President of Societa Gestione the region.
From 2001 to 2004, Mr Djelic served as Minister of Finance Crediti, a member of the Board of Directors of Capitalia Service Joint and Economy of Serbia, leading the countrys macro and banking Venture in Italy and Chairman of the Shareholders Board at Archon reform.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked at McKinsey & Company in Capital Bank Deutschland in Germany.
Prior to Goldman Sachs, he Paris and Silicon Valley, specialising in financial institutions, asset served as a Senior Executive at GE Capital for seven years in both the management and media.
He has also held various advisory positions, United States and Europe, where his activities included real estate including adviser to the Polish and Romanian Governments.
workouts and restructuring, as well as acquisitions.
Prior to GE Capital, Mr Bradley held senior executive positions at Manufacturers Mr Djelic does not hold any other directorships.
Hanover Trust now part of JP Morgan and Dollar Dry Dock Bank.
He has also served as a Peace Corps volunteer and as a consultant with Education: the US Agency for International Development in Cameroon.
Mr Djelic holds an MBA from the Harvard Business School, an MPA from Harvards J. F. Kennedy School of Government and an MA in Mr Bradley does not hold any other directorships.
Economics from the cole fide Hautes tudes in Social Sciences.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 71 Directors Governance Statement Leadership continued Management of the Group 1.
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze Chief Executive Officer Deputy CEO, Finance CEO, Georgia Healthcare Group appointed 4 December 2014 appointed 4 December 2014 CEO, Georgia Healthcare Group Deputy CEO, Finance until 4 December 2014 until 4 December 2014 4.
Archil Gachechiladze Deputy CEO, Retail Banking Deputy CEO, Corporate Banking Deputy CEO, Investment Management 7.
Avto Namicheishvili Deputy CEO, Affordable Housing Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer Deputy CEO, Legal 72 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information 1.
Archil Gachechiladze Chief Executive Officer Deputy CEO, Investment Management See details on page 70.
Mr Gachechiladze assumed the role of Deputy CEO Investment Management responsibilities in May 2013, prior to which he served 2.
Murtaz Kikoria as Deputy CEO in charge of Corporate Banking.
Prior to joining Bank Deputy CFO, Finance of Georgia, Mr Gachechiladze served as deputy director in charge of Corporate Recovery at TBC Bank, Georgia, a position he held since Mr Kikoria was appointed as Deputy CEO Finance on 4 December August 2008.
From 2006 to 2008, Mr Gachechiladze was an Associate 2014, having previously served as the CEO of Georgia Healthcare at Lehman Brothers Private Equity currently Trilantic Capital Partners Group since August 2014, following its split from Aldagi, where Mr in London.
From 1998 to 2004, Mr Gachechiladze served as a Senior Kikoria had served as the CEO since October 2012.
Prior to this, Mr Associate at Salford Equity Partners, a Senior Analyst at EBRD in Tbilisi Kikoria served as Deputy CEO Finance of the Bank since June 2011. and London, a Senior Financial Analyst at KPMG Barents in Tbilisi Prior to this appointment, Mr Kikoria served as acting CEO of BG Bank and as a Team Leader for the World Banks CERMA Project in Tbilisi.
currently Bank Pershyi since June 2009.
Mr Kikoria also serves as a Mr Gachechiladze received his undergraduate degree in economics member of the Supervisory Board of Bank Pershyi.
Mr Kikoria joined the and law from Tbilisi State University and his MBA with distinction from Bank as Deputy CEO Compliance in August 2008.
He is also CFA Charterholder and a member of the Mr Kikoria served as a Senior Banker at EBRD.
Prior to joining EBRD, CFA Society in the United Kingdom.
Mr Kikoria served as Head of Banking Supervision and Regulation at the NBG from 2001 to 2005, having previously held various senior Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Gachechiladze will assume positions at United Georgian Bank and SilkRoad Bank.
Mr Kikoria the role of Group CFO in addition to his current role.
received an undergraduate degree from Tbilisi State University in Economics, specialising in Finance and Credit.
Irakli Burdiladze Deputy CEO, Affordable Housing Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Kikoria will assume the role of CEO of the Bank.
Mr Burdiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO Affordable Housing in 2010.
He previously served as Chief Operating Officer of the Bank from 3.
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze March 2007 to June 2010, after spending a year as CFO.
Prior to joining CEO, Georgia Healthcare Group the Bank, Mr Burdiladze served as CFO of the GMT Group, a leading real estate developer and operator in Georgia.
As CFO, Mr Burdiladze Mr Gamkrelidze was appointed as CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group was responsible for the Groups capital-raising efforts and transaction on 4 December 2014, having previously served as Deputy CEO structuring.
Mr Burdiladze received a graduate degree in International Finance since October 2012.
Prior to this appointment, Mr Gamkrelidze Economics and International Relations from the Johns Hopkins University served as CEO of Aldagi.
Prior to joining Aldagi, Mr Gamkreldize served School of Advanced International Studies and an undergraduate degree as CEO of joint stock company My Family Clinic from October 2005 to in International Relations from the Tbilisi State University.
Prior to joining My Family Clinic, Mr Gamkrelidze served as a consultant at Primary Healthcare Development Project The World 8.
Giorgi Chiladze Bank Project and worked on the development of pharmaceutical Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer policy and regulation in Georgia.
Prior to joining Primary Healthcare Development Project, he served at BCI Insurance Company as Head Mr Chiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer of the Personal Risks Insurance Department from 2002 to 2003. in September 2013.
He rejoined the Bank having already served Mr Gamkrelidze started his career at the State Medical Insurance as Deputy CEO Finance from 2008 to 2011.
From 2011 to 2013, Company in 1998, where he worked for two years.
He graduated Mr Chiladze worked at the Partnership Fund in the capacity of Deputy from the Faculty of General Medicine of Tbilisi with distinctions, and CEO.
Mr Chiladze served as General Director of BTA Bank Georgia holds an MA in International Healthcare Management from the from 2005 to 2011.
Prior to joining BTA Bank, he was an executive Tanaka Business School of Imperial College London.
member of the Supervisory Board of JSC Europace Insurance Company and a founding partner of the management consulting firm, 4.
Mikheil Gomarteli Altergroup Ltd. Mr Chiladze had previously worked in the US at the Deputy CEO, Retail Banking Program Trading Desk at Bear Stearns in New York City, prior to returning to Georgia in 2003.
Mr Chiladze received a PhD in physics Mr Gomarteli was appointed as Deputy CEO Retail Banking in from Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland and an February 2009.
Mr Gomarteli has been with the Bank since December undergraduate degree in physics from Tbilisi State University.
During his 17 years of service with the Bank, Mr Gomarteli has held various senior positions, including Co-Head of Retail Banking from 9.
Avto Namicheishvili March 2007 to February 2009, Head of Business Development from Deputy CEO, Legal March 2005 to July 2005, Head of Strategy and Planning from 2004 to 2005, Head of Branch Management and Sales Coordination from Mr Namicheishvili has served as Deputy CEO Legal since July 2008, 2003 to 2004, Head of Branch Management and Marketing from 2002 having previously been the Banks General Counsel since March 2007. to 2003 and Head of Banking Products and Marketing from 2000 to Before joining the Bank, Mr Namicheishvili was a Partner at Begiashvili 2002.
Mr Gomarteli received an undergraduate degree in Economics & Co. Limited, a leading Georgian law firm, where he acted as the from Tbilisi State University.
Banks external legal adviser from 2004.
Mr Namicheishvili received undergraduate degrees in law and international economic relations 5.
Sulkhan Gvalia from Tbilisi State University and received a graduate degree LLM in Deputy CEO, Corporate Banking International Business Law from Central European University, Hungary.
Mr Gvalia assumed the position of Deputy CEO Corporate Banking in Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Namicheishvili will assume May 2013, prior to which he served as Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer the role of Group Deputy CEO Legal in addition to his current role.
since January 2005, following the Banks acquisition of TUB, a mid-sized bank in Georgia co-founded by him in 1995.
Mr Gvalia has 21 years of banking experience, holding management positions in risk, credit finance, strategy and treasury.
Mr Gvalia received his undergraduate law degree from Tbilisi State University.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 73
