Directors Governance Statement Effectiveness continued Nomination Committee Report Succession planning, gender diversity and an external valuation of our effectiveness were the key areas of focus of the work of the Nomination Committee during 2014.
In line with the Groups revised strategy announced in December 2014, the Committee recommended a Group and Bank management restructuring to best utilise the skills of management, in order to effectively implement our strategy.
Recognising the importance of diversity in all of its forms, our Board adopted a Board Diversity Policy in 2014, which reinforced the Boards commitment to increasing female representation on our Board.
During the year, the Committee also selected and recommended the appointment of an external effectiveness evaluation specialist to assist with the evaluation of our Board, Neil Janin the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, myself, Chairman of the Nomination Committee as Chairman, and the CEO.
Neil Janin Chairman of Nomination Committee 7 April 2015 The role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities of Directors, having regard to the highest standards of governance, the strategic direction of the Group and diversity aspirations of the Board.
In summary, the Committee is responsible for: reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure they are appropriately constituted and balanced in terms of skills, experience, independence and knowledge: identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board based on clearly set criteria which takes into account the skills, experience and diversity required by the Board, and the attributes required of Directors: developing succession plans for the Chairman, CEO, Non-Executive Directors and key senior managerial roles: evaluating the suitability of Directors standing for re-election at the AGM: evaluating the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and time required from Non-Executive Directors: organising the process for the annual Board and Committee effectiveness reviews and implementing any plan required to address issues identified: reviewing and implementing the Groups corporate governance policies and practices: and preparing the report by the Committee to be included in the Annual Report.
The Committees full Terms of Reference are available on our website, http: www.
76 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Our key areas of focus during 2014 were the review of the In identifying suitable candidates, we may use open advertising composition and performance of the Board and in particular, or the services of external advisers to facilitate the search.
the adoption of a Board Diversity Policy, which highlights our Consideration will be given to candidates from a wide range commitment to the appointment of female Non-Executive Directors of backgrounds, based on merit and against objective criteria, as well as the development of a succession plan for key senior including taking care that appointees have enough time available executives in line with the Groups revised strategy.
to devote to the position, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity in all its forms on the Board.
The composition of the Committee and the members attendance during the year is listed on page 67 of this Annual Report.
Short-listed candidates selected by us will be seen in the first instance by the Chairman.
If the selection process progresses Succession planning and appointment process further, the potential candidate s will be invited to meet other Our Board succession plan developed in 2012 was successfully members of the Committee as a whole as well as members of implemented in 2013 and resulted in significant changes to our management.
We will then decide whether to recommend an Board structure.
In December 2013, we saw the retirement of two appointment to the Board and the Board will decide whether non-independent Directors and a Director who had served the to make the appointment.
Board for nearly nine years and the successful appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors to our Board, resulting in all Board Diversity Policy Non-Executive Directors being independent.
The key statement and objectives of our Board Diversity Policy are as follows: With respect to succession planning for key managerial roles in line with revised Group strategy announced in December 2014, we Statement: recommended, and the Board approved, the following appointments: Our Board embraces diversity in all its forms.
Diversity of skills, background, knowledge, technical expertise, and gender, amongst As at 4 December 2014: other factors, will be taken into consideration when seeking to Murtaz Kikoria, then CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group, appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the role of CFO of the Bank: any Board appointment will always be made based on merit.
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze, then CFO of the Bank, to the role of CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group: and Objectives: Ekaterina Shavgulidze, then Head of Investor Relations The Board should ensure the appropriate mix of skills of Georgia Healthcare Group, to the role of Group Head and experience to ensure an effective Board.
of Investor Relations and Funding.
The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are independent in character and judgement.
Upon completion of the corporate restructuring to separate The Board aims to increase the number of women on our banking and non-banking businesses, which is expected the Board to two within the next two years and further to complete later this year, the following appointments will increase this number thereafter.
become effective: Irakli Gilauri as Group CEO: Progress: Archil Gachechiladze as Group CFO in addition to his Although no new Director was ultimately appointed to the Board current role as Deputy CEO Investment Management in 2014, female candidates, in addition to other candidates from a of the Bank : diverse range of backgrounds, were interviewed throughout the year.
Avto Namicheishvili as Group Deputy CEO Legal in addition to his current role as Deputy CEO Legal Board effectiveness of the Bank : It is the Committees responsibility to organise the Board, Committee Murtaz Kikoria as Bank CEO: and and individual Director performance reviews.
In 2014, the Committee Levan Kulijanishvili, our head of Internal Control, recommended, and the Board approved, the appointment of Security and AML Compliance, as Bank CFO.
Details of the process, results and 2015 action plan can be found on pages 74 and 75 We believe these changes to the management structure of this Annual Report.
will complement the new strategy as well as best utilise management talent.
Committee effectiveness review Lintstock also performed the effectiveness review of the Committee In 2014, we continued to review the composition of our Board and in December 2014.
The evaluation principally addressed how spent a considerable amount of time discussing technical expertise, effectively the Committee reviews the composition of the Board in light of non-core business growth, and gender diversity.
I, as and the Board Committees as well as develops and implements Chairman, also engaged with BGHs shareholders and sought succession plans for both the Board and executive management.
the advice of shareholder advisory groups in respect of gender The evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate diversity.
In light of this, the Committee recommended, and the and perform effectively.
Board approved the Board Diversity Policy, which is detailed directly below.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to oversee Looking ahead to 2015 the Boards implementation of the Policy.
For 2015, the Committee will continue to focus on the composition of the Board, succession planning for the Board, with particular The Board has a policy in place for the Board recruitment and focus on increasing gender diversity on the Board, and succession appointment process.
planning for key managerial positions within the Group.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 77
