Directors Governance Statement Accountability continued Risk Committee Report The BGH Risk Committee was established as of 1 January 2014.
Although both risk assessment and appropriate risk and return criteria are prevailing themes in BGHs Board discussions, the Board decided that the creation of a specific risk committee would help strengthen risk management processes and oversight in the Group, and also provide a dynamic forum where the Committee, other Board members and senior management could escalate both risk concerns and risk management strategy recommendations.
The Committee is comprised of five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Our initial focus in 2014 was to work closely with the Audit Committee to make sure that each Committee was clear about its primary risk coverage and where responsibilities overlap.
As a result, we decided to schedule our Committee meetings Kim Bradley back-to-back when possible given that some of our risk Chairman of the Risk Committee subjects require joint committee accountability and skill sets.
The initial risk categories overseen by the Risk Committee include reputational, geopolitical, macro-economic and market, liquidity and capital, credit and certain operational risks within the Group.
As to credit risk, our focus is principally on forward-looking matters.
As a key follow-up to our initial focus, the Committee and Audit Committee developed a risk matrix delineating the respective committees coverage and overlap, as well as specific senior management responsibility for oversight and execution.
Finally, to make sure that we think about risk dynamically, we have stressed that risk concerns should not be limited to items identified on our risk matrix and have encouraged Committee members, other Board members and senior management to escalate concerns and issues for discussion.
The Risk Committee has authority delegated from the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website at http: www.
Further details on how the Committee discharged its responsibilities are provided below.
Kim Bradley Chairman of the Risk Committee 7 April 2015 84 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Key purpose and responsibilities At each meeting, the Committee receives detailed reporting which The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling provides an analysis of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks its responsibilities in relation to the oversight of risk and to provide and management actions, performance against risk appetite and advice in relation to current and potential future risk exposures.
potential risks the Group may face.
The quantitative models and This includes reviewing the Groups risk appetite and risk profile risk analytics used in assessing risk are also discussed with and assessing the effectiveness of the risk management the Committee.
framework in place to address such risk.
Comprehensive stress testing is also performed throughout the The Boards approach to the management of risk is set out on year and the underlying assumptions, methodology applied and page 78 of this Annual Report and our risk management framework results of such tests are reported to the Committee.
is discussed on pages 36 to 43 of this Annual Report.
The principal risks the Group faces are set out on pages 32 to 35 of this Meetings of the Committee take place prior to the Board meeting Annual Report.
in order for the Committee to report its activities and matters of particular relevance to the Board.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Committee activities during 2014 support the Board to ensure that risk appetite and Throughout the year, the Committee evaluated the design, exposure are addressed as part of strategy: completeness and effectiveness of the risk management framework oversee the risk management infrastructure and process: focusing on the requirements of the Code, the FRC guidance in oversee risk exposure and the implementation of our respect of risk management and the needs of our businesses.
strategy to address risk: support the Board in monitoring risk exposure and the In addition to the work noted above on establishing a clear implementation of our strategy to address risk: risk matrix and responsibilities, the Committee recommended oversee, support and evaluate the risk management changes to the content of reporting by management, management roles of our senior management risk team: responsibilities and reporting lines to the Committee, all of which encourage and ensure open and broad discussion were adopted.
on perceived risk concerns and responsive efforts to mitigate when necessary: The Committee received regular reports on key risk exposures, assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management emerging and potential risks, the drivers of risk throughout function and the effectiveness of risk reporting within the Group as well as analyses of stress testing scenarios.
the Group: and The Committee assessed and challenged the appropriateness review the effectiveness of the risk management framework.
of the Groups overall risk appetite and monitored the Groups exposure against these appetites.
With respect to emerging The full list of Committee responsibilities are in its written and potential risks, additional stress testing scenarios were terms of reference, available on the Companys website at requested and evaluated.
Effectiveness Composition of the Risk Committee and meetings The Committee assessed its own effectiveness and concluded The composition of the Committee and the members attendance that it was operating effectively.
during the year is listed on page 67 of this Annual Report.
Our Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non-Executive Priorities for 2015 Directors.
Our priorities for this year will be: close monitoring of the US Dollar denominated loan book covered by Lari income: operational risks The biographies of the members of the Committee are set out associated with IT and cyber security: the integration of Privatbank: on pages 70 and 71 of this Annual Report.
and the implementation of investment business strategy.
Our meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, CEO, CFO, CRO and occasionally by our head of Internal Audit and our external auditor.
From time to time, other members of management are invited to attend meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into key issues and developments.
In addition, non-Committee Board members are also invited to attend.
During 2014, the Committee held three joint meetings with the Audit Committee.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 85
