The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Report of the Audit Committee consideration of the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee: Composition consideration of the quality and effectiveness of the accounting The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors except the records and management information maintained on behalf of the Chairman of the Board, and is chaired by Matthew Thorne who is a Company, relying on meetings with and reports from Henderson: chartered accountant.
The other Audit Committee members have a consideration of the appropriate level of dividend to be paid by combination of financial, investment and other experience gained theCompany: throughout their careers and the Board is satisfied that at least one of the Committees members has recent and relevant financial consideration of the internal controls in place at Henderson and experience.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent.
The BNP Paribas Securities Services 'BNP' as administrator and biographies of the Audit Committee members are shown on page 22.
Hendersons policies in relation to cyber risk and business continuity, meeting with representatives of Hendersons internal audit and risk departments periodically: Meetings consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place The Audit Committee met four times during the year under review.
and the Companys risk map: TheCompanys auditor is invited to attend meetings as necessary.
Representatives of Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services consideration of the Companys anti-bribery policy: may also be invited.
consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom: Role and Responsibilities annual consideration of whether there is a need for an internal audit function, in order to make a recommendation to the Board The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in applying the as described on page 34: financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an consideration of the Auditors independence and objectivity and the appropriate relationship with the Auditor.
The responsibilities are set out in formal terms of reference which are regularly reviewed.
In the provision of any non-audit services as explained further on page 37 : year under review the main duties undertaken were: consideration of the whistle blowing policy that Henderson has a review of the half year results and the Annual Report, including put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
the disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and risk The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent management, going concern and related parties and consideration of whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable and investigation and follow up action: provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess consideration of the management fee calculation: and theCompanys performance, business model and strategy: consideration of the allocation of fees between investment management and administration, following which from 1November 2014 all expenses and interest payable including accounting, secretarial and administration fees will be capitalised in accordance with note 1e on page 45.
Audit for the Year Ended 31 October 2014 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 31 October 2014 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and ownership of Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third party the Companys investments pricing vendors.
Investments that are unquoted or not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques to determine their fair value: all such valuations are reviewed by both Hendersons fair value pricing committee and by the Directors.
Ownership is verified by reconciliation to the custodians records.
Recognition of income Income received is accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policy as set out on page 45 and is reviewed by the Committee at each meeting.
Compliance with Section 1158 of The Committee regularly considers the controls in place to ensure that the regulations for the Corporation Tax Act 2010 ensuring investment trust status are observed at all times.
Maintaining internal controls The Committee receives regular reports on internal controls from Henderson and its delegates and has access to the relevant personnel of Henderson who have a responsibility for risk management and internal audit.
36 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended Policy on Non-Audit Services 31 October 2014, taken as a whole, isfair, balanced and The provision of non-audit services by the Companys Auditor is understandable and provides the information necessary for considered and approved by the Audit Committee on a case by case shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model basis.
The policy set by the Audit Committee, which is kept under and strategy.
review, ensures that consideration is given to the following factors when considering the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor: Audit Tendering As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, whether the audit firm is the most suitable supplier of non-audit the Company will in future be subject to the mandatory auditor services: rotation requirements of the European Union.
Subject to the detailed implementation of the European requirements in the UK, the impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity and this is likely to mean that the Company will put the external audit what safeguards can be put in place to eliminate or reduce any out to tender at least every ten years, and change auditor at least threat in this regard: and every twenty years.
The Committee will, however, continue to consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or the cost-eff ectiveness of the services.
The Board has determined that the Auditor will never be considered During the year the Company tendered its audit and upon for the provision of services related to accounting and preparation of consideration of the tenders received the Board decided to appoint the financial statements, internal audit and custody.
External Audit, Review and Auditor Reappointment The Committee discusses the audit process with the Auditor without representatives of Henderson present and considers the effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
This is the first year Grant Matthew Thorne Thornton UK LLP have audited the Companys Annual Report and Audit Committee Chairman financial statements.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the 19 January 2015 effectiveness of the audit provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The Committee is satisfied that the Auditor is independent of the Company.
The Auditor is required to rotate partners every five years and this isthe first year that the current partner has been in place.
Grant Thornton UK LLP have indicated their willingness tocontinue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to theCompany, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Fees paid or payable to the Auditor are detailed in note 6 onpage49.
