The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Statement Applicable Corporate Governance Codes TheArticles of Association require all Directors to retire at each AGM, in accordance with the corporate governance policy adopted.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the All the current Directors, with the exception of Richard Burns, will Companys affairs.
As an investment trust, the Companys day-to-day therefore retire and, being eligible, have stated that they will offer responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has no themselves for re-appointment.
employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
Therefore not all theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the 'UK Code' Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a issued by the Financial Reporting Council 'FRC' are directly applicable Directorbefore the end of his or her term by passing an ordinary to the Company.
The Board has therefore considered the principles and resolution at ameeting.
recommendations of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the Association of Investment Companies in February 2013 'the AIC Code' by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Board independence Investment Companies 'the AIC Guide'.
The AIC Code, as explained All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not by the AIC Guide, addresses all the applicable principles set out in the dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee UK Code as well as setting out additional principles and meeting in September 2014, the Directors reviewed their recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment independence and confirmed that all Directors remain wholly companies.
The FRC has confirmed that, by following the AIC Guide, independent of Henderson.
Richard Burns is the Companys Senior boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations Independent Director.
There were no contracts subsisting during or inrelation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
at the end of the year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be Companys business.
found on the respective organisations websites: www.
Directors professional development When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction New Zealand Listing seminar which is held by Henderson at the request of the Chairman.
Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key information on It should be noted that the UK codes of Corporate Governance may the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and differ materially from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
Directors Statement of Compliance individual training requirements are considered as part of the annual evaluation process which is led bythe Chairman of the Board.
The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Directors believe that during the year under review they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, Directors insurance and indemnification and with the provisions of the UK Code except as noted below: Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect ofthe Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and, the role of chief executive: subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party executive directors remuneration: and provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings the need for an internal audit function.
brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors in which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the As the Company delegates to an external investment manager which has Court.
No indemnity was given during the year or up to the date of its own internal audit function its day-to-day operations and has no this report.
employees, the Board does not consider these provisions to be relevant to the Company and has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board Directors Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees During the year seven Board meetings were held to deal with the Board composition important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board has a formal The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which are shall not be less than three nor more than eight: the Board currently categorised under various headings including strategy, management, consists of five non-executive Directors.
The biographies of the structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset Directors holding office at the date of this report, which are set out allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, investment onpage 22, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors.
governance and Board membership and appointments.
Directors appointment and retirement The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half year The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so results and other public documents and for ensuring that such appointed must stand for appointment by the shareholders at the documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment Annual General Meeting 'AGM' following appointment, in of the Companys position and prospects.
33 accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment Performance evaluation performance and considers financial analyses and other reports The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes ofanoperational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Companys objective and is responsible for setting asset allocation, Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During investment and gearing limits within which Henderson has discretion theyear the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of any including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the investments in in-house funds managed or advised by Henderson.
Committees and of individual Directors including the Chairman.
Italso has adopted a procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional adviceat the expense of The Company is obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board the Company.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, evaluation every three years.
An external review was carried out by all Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
The evaluation for the current year was also undertaken by Lintstock Limited.
The evaluation concluded that The Board has three Committees, the Audit Committee, the Nominations the Board has a good balance of skills and experience.
Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
The terms of reference for these Committees are available on the Companys website Board attendance www.
com or via the Corporate Secretary.
The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee meetings held during the year under review and the number of Audit Committee meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the The Audit Committee is chaired by Matthew Thorne.
TheReport of the AGMin February 2014.
Audit Committee can be found on pages 36 and 37.
Management Nominations Committee Audit Nominations Engagement Richard Killingbeck, Richard Burns and Susan Inglis are the members Board Committee Committee Committee of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of the Board acts as Number of meetings 7 4 1 1 Chairman of the Committee but would not chair the Committee when Richard Killingbeck 7 n a 1 1 the Chairmans successor was being considered.
The Committee is Richard Burns 6 4 1 1 responsible for reviewing Board succession planning, the composition Susan Inglis 7 4 1 1 and performance of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees, Matthew Thorne 7 4 n a 1 andthe appointment of new Directors.
1 David Wild 5 2 n a 1 When considering succession planning, the Committee bears in 1 David Wild was appointed on 26 February 2014 mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, gender and diversity existing on the Board and will recommend when the The Directors and Committees of the Board also met during the year recruitment of additional non-executive Directors is required.
Given to undertake business such as the approval of the Companys results the size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have set and new agreements required by the Alternative Investment Fund targets in relation to gender diversity.
Once a decision is made to Managers Directive.
recruit additional Directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn up and each Director is invited to submit nominations and Internal Controls and Risk Management these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
TheCommittee may also use external agencies as and The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, when the requirement to recruit an additional Board member evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
Theprocess has been in place since 2000 and is subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this report the process accords The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board each Director with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined seeking re-appointment.
Recommendation is not automatic and will Code published in September 1999 'the Turnbull Guidance'.
follow a process of evaluation of each Directors performance and consideration of the Directors independence.
The Committee also takes The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of into account the mix of skills and experience of the current Board internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with the UK Code any Director serving system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to forlonger than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide assessment of his her contribution.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys Management Engagement Committee system of internal controls for the year ended 31 October 2014.
The Management Engagement Committee membership comprises all During the course of its review of internal controls the Board has not the members of the Board.
The Committee meets at least annually to identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that have review the investment management agreement with the Companys been determined as significant.
Manager and to review the services provided by Henderson.
34 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued Henderson has established an internal control framework to provide Continued Appointment of Henderson reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness investment management and other services to the Company on an ofthe internal controls is assessed by Hendersons compliance and ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with risk department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives a formal Henderson and the fees payable are contained on page 4. report from Henderson each quarter detailing the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly the The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a responsibility of Henderson, and which reports the details of any formal review of Henderson is conducted annually.
As part of the annual known internal control failures.
Each year the Board receives from review in September 2014 the Directors discussed the quality and Henderson a report on its internal controls which includes a report continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with from Hendersons auditors on the control policies and procedures in particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of addition, they reviewed other services provided by Henderson to the internal control and risk management into the operation and culture Company, such as accounting, company secretarial and administration ofthe Company and its key suppliers.
services and Hendersons activities in promoting and marketing the Company.
The Board noted Hendersons resources and experience in Accountability and Relationship with Henderson managing and administering investment trust companies.
As a result of their annual review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued As all of the Companys management functions are delegated to third appointment of Henderson on the terms agreed is in the interests of the parties and the Board monitors the controls in place through Companys shareholders as a whole.
Hendersons internal audit function department, the Board feels there is no current need for an internal audit function.
Share Capital The Board receives and considers regular reports from Henderson Please see the Report of the Directors on page 28. and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by Relations with Shareholders Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime would then be reported to the Board.
medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to Henderson takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys investments.
Henderson also ensures that all Directors receive, in a activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial daily calculation and publication of the NAV pershare at the London information.
Representatives of Henderson attend each Board and New Zealand Stock Exchanges and amonthly fact sheet which meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of is available on the website.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Corporate Secretary through its appointed representative who is The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to attend responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee and participate in the AGM.
Shareholders have the opportunity to procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee meetings Audit Committee and all other Directors at the meeting and the Fund are fully recorded through a process that allows any Directors Manager will make a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of the concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and Henderson proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is displayed at the operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
meeting and each substantial issue is dealt with in a separate resolution.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Notice of Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which acts for AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least 20 working Henderson, have arrangements in place by which their staff may, in days notice of the meeting.
These documents are also included on the confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation to website.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the financial reporting or other matters.
meeting, or raise issues or concerns at any time, are invited to do so by writing to the Corporate Secretary at the address given on page 23.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is set out on page 30, and the statement of going concern General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow the on page 28. publication of the annual results.
Meetings between Henderson, including our Fund Manager, and shareholders are reported to the The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010, Board.
which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its zero toleranceto bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has By order of the Board received assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary 19 January 2015 35
