73 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 73 Statement of corporate governance Compliance with code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have complied with the provisions set out in the 2012 version of the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and explained the independence of Rolf Tolle under the board review.
The board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The companys auditors have reviewed the companys compliance to the extent required by the UK listing rules for review by auditors of UK listed companies.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the main principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied by the group.
The board The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Dennis Holt, together with six independent non-executive directors, of whom George Blunden is the senior independent non-executive director, and five executive directors, of whom Andrew Horton is chief executive.
The non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Rolf Tolle was appointed as a non-executive director in December 2010.
He has a familial connection in the business with his son, Christian Tolle, who joined the company in August 2009 and is head of life, accident & health.
Christian reports to the chief underwriting officer and does not currently sit on the executive committee.
The board values the independence of its nonexecutive directors and considered carefully the appointment of Rolf Tolle, acknowledging that his relationship with his son could call his independence into question.
The board believes that the position that his son holds within Beazley does not impact Rolfs independence of judgement.
Rolf Tolle is a significant figure in the Lloyds insurance sector, and is a substantive asset to the board and the company.
He was the first appointed Franchise Performance Director for the Lloyds of London market.
This was the new position created as part of transformation of the Lloyds market.
His role was to monitor the performance of the Lloyds syndicates and to formulate and implement procedures to monitor risk across the Lloyds market.
In this context he brings valuable insight and skills to the Beazley board, as both an industry expert and also from a risk perspective.
He performs a valuable role in bringing challenge to the boardroom based on his in depth understanding of the key drivers and challenges faced by the group.
The board meets the independence criteria for Rolf Tolle by ensuring that when life, accident & health is a specific board matter Rolf Tolle excuses himself from the discussion and any board or committee decision, this occurs significantly less than 5% of the time set aside for board meetings.
The board believes that this practice is consistent with the spirit of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the principle of independence.
The chairman oversees this potential conflict of interest, and ensures that the matter is revisited annually as part of the board effectiveness review.
The board is satisfied that there is no detriment to shareholders and Rolf Tolles continuance on the board of Beazley adds considerable value to the business and shareholders.
Biographies of current board members appear in the board of directors section of this report.
The biographies indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well defined operational and management structure is in place and the roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly defined.
The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes, inter alia, strategic matters: statutory matters intended to generate and preserve value over the longer term: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, officers and auditors: appointments of committees and setting of terms of reference.
It is responsible for: the review of group performance against budgets: approving material contracts: determining authority levels within which management is required to operate: reviewing the groups annual forecasts: and approval of the groups corporate business plans, including capital adequacy and the Own Risk Solvency Assessment.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in pursuing its strategic objectives.
The board has also appointed an executive committee with delegated responsibility for particular matters such as considering the business plan, underwriting, risk and regulations including the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, investments and operations.
com 74 Beazley Annual report 2014 Statement of corporate governance continued There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, on the basis that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have access to an electronic information repository to support their activities.
During 2014 the board continued to support the maintenance and development of Beazleys information security programme to address the changing and emerging cyber security threats.
All directors allocate sufficient time to the company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment for all the non-executive directors set out the expected time commitment and they agree that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The nomination committee actively reviews the activities and time commitments of members and any changes to other significant commitments of the chairman and the non-executive directors would be reported to the board as they arose.
The composition of, and appointments to, the board of both executive and non-executive directors are considered by the nomination committee.
The recommendations of the nomination committee are ultimately made to the full board, which considers them before any change is made.
All directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the board and the chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each director their training needs to ensure that they continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the company, as required to fulfil their role both on the board and on any board committee of which they are a member.
The remuneration committee considers any remuneration package of executive directors before it is offered to a potential appointee.
Full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the companys remuneration policy are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Meetings with non-executive directors The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
Board performance evaluation Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is required to undertake formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and for this to be externally facilitated every three years.
In 2012 an assessment of the effectiveness of the board and its committees was externally facilitated by Deloitte LLP.
The board confirms that improvements recommended by Deloitte LLP have been implemented.
In 2014 the self assessment of effectiveness of the board and its committees was conducted through a combination of questionnaires and meetings.
The board considered the results of the assessment and confirmed that there were no significant matters to be addressed.
Further details of the review are included in the nomination committee report.
Individual attendance by directors at regular meetings of the board and of committees In addition to the five regular board meetings, there were further meetings to consider the Q3 2014 interim statement and director changes.
Attendance at the meetings was high.
All the directors also attend an annual strategy day.
The remuneration committee has five scheduled meetings and in 2014 there were three additional ad hoc meetings with full attendance.
Attendance at the regular board and committee meetings is set out in the table below: Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee No.
Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended G P Blunden 5 5 6 6 5 5 5 5 M L Bride 5 5 A P Cox 5 5 A D Crawford-Ingle 5 5 6 6 D Holt 5 5 5 5 5 5 D A Horton 5 5 3 3 P J OConnor 5 5 5 5 N P Maidment 5 5 V J Sheridan 5 5 6 6 K P Sroka 5 5 5 5 5 5 R W Tolle 5 5 6 6 C A Washbourn 5 4 O n 21 July 2014 Andrew Horton resigned as a member of the nomination committee.
Where a director stood down from the board or board committee during the year only the number of meetings before standing down are shown.
com 74 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 75 Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained in the statement of directors responsibilities and the independent auditors report, together with the statement of the directors on going concern in the directors report.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant compliance issues and risks facing the group.
All significant known risks are captured in the Beazley risk register and monitored on a monthly basis.
The risk register and the related internal capital assessment process are subject to review, challenge and approval by the board.
The board agreed the 2014 risk appetite for the group at the end of 2013 and, throughout 2014, the board has considered and acted upon the information presented to it in order to make risk based decisions against the 2014 risk appetite.
Key components of the risk management framework include monthly control self assessments and six monthly risk assessments, with ad hoc risk assessments being conducted when required.
These matters have been considered by the executive risk and regulatory committee each month and the audit and risk committee and board quarterly.
In addition, the board has considered the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report in the past year.
This risk management framework has provided the board with an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the risks to the company, and accords with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code guidance.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within the risk appetite set by the board.
The key procedures that the directors have established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of this size include: day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors: review and analysis by the various group committees of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting, as prescribed by the board: review of financial, operational and assurance reports from management: and review of any significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
The board therefore confirms that it has, during 2014, reviewed the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and continue to operate up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Further information on the role of the audit and risk committee is set out on page 76 and further information on risk management at Beazley is set out in the risk management report.
Shareholder communication The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report are available from www.
com and, where elected or on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to stakeholders who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations, attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
Board committees The group has established properly constituted audit and risk, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
There are terms of reference for each committee and details of their main responsibilities and activities in 2014 are set out on pages 76 to 81. www.
com 76 Beazley Annual report 2014 Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee Responsibilities of the committee The committees main audit-related responsibilities are to, inter alia: monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements and any other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance: review the Annual Report before submission to and approval by, the board, and before clearance by the external auditors, covering critical accounting policies, significant financial reporting judgements, the going concern assumption, compliance with accounting standards and other requirements under applicable law, regulations and governance codes applicable to the financial statements: review the companys internal financial controls and the companys internal control and risk management systems: approve the appointment or termination of the appointment of the head of internal audit and monitor and review the Angela Crawford-Ingle effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: review the arrangements by which employees of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other The board has delegated oversight of audit and areas: and risk matters to the audit and risk committee recommending to the board of directors the appointment, which currently comprises Angela Crawford-Ingle re-appointment and termination of external auditors and committee chairman, Vincent Sheridan, approving their remuneration and terms of engagement.
George Blunden and Rolf Tolle.
The committees main risk-related responsibilities are to, inter alia: Since assuming the role of chair of the audit and risk committee advise the board on the companys risk management in March 2013 I have worked collaboratively with the committee framework, which includes the risk management objectives, members, management and both internal and external risk appetite, risk culture and assignment of risk assurance providers to make an effective assessment of the management responsibilities: way in which governance operates, risks are assessed and review risk reports and management information managed and financial reporting or control matters are dealt to enable a clear understanding of the key risks and with.
My previous financial experience as a former partner of controls in the business:  has positioned me well to lead the review any breaches of risk appetite and the adequacy committee in providing the challenge on such matters emerging of proposed action: within the business.
review the identification of future risks, including considering emerging trends and future risk strategy: and The primary role of the audit and risk committee in relation review the remit of the risk management function and ensure to financial reporting is to monitor the integrity of the financial it has adequate resources and appropriate access to statements of the group and any formal announcements information to enable it to perform its function effectively.
relating to the groups financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgements.
In light of the Full details of the terms of reference of the committee are last years changes to the Corporate Governance Code, the available at www.
committee has approached its review of the annual report as a whole with focus on behalf of the board on considering the concept of fair, balanced and understandable.
We have challenged ourselves to ensure the key messages about the performance of the business are delivered in a manner consistent with our own understanding and interpretation of the information we receive.
Set out in this section are the detailed responsibilities of the committee, as well as the specific considerations that have been on our agenda for 2014. www.
com 76 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 77 b Valuation of financial assets at fair value The principal activities undertaken by the As more fully explained in note 16, the total carrying committee in discharging its responsibilities amount of financial assets at fair value investments in 2014 are described below.
Significant financial statement reporting issues for the 2014 year The board is responsible for setting the investment strategy, The significant financial statement reporting issues, along with defining the risk appetite and overseeing the internal and the significant matters and accounting judgements that the outsourced providers via the chief investment officer CIO.
The committee considered during the year under review, are committee has been made aware of the new holdings in illiquid set out below.
credit assets entered in the latter part of 2014, and remain satisfied that there is no increased level of valuation risk a Valuation of insurance liabilities at this time.
The committee receives reporting from the CIO As further explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the via the finance director and it has reported for 2014 that the groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those to investment portfolio is in line with the board approved risk cover claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR appetite and that carrying values of the portfolio as at to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
2014 has seen a number 31 December 2014 are appropriate.
The committee has of individual risk losses but has otherwise been a relatively monitored the change in the investment management benign year.
Our consideration of catastrophe losses has arrangements through regular discussion with management, therefore been restricted to developments in relation to the reviews undertaken by internal audit and has ensured that the more significant catastrophes of previous years.
external audit approach has responded to this change.
The audit committee receives regular reports from both the The finance director has drawn the committees attention internal group actuary and the external audit team, as the to the new accounting standards, effective for 2014 and output of independent projections are reviewed at key reporting ensured that financial reporting is prepared having regard to quarters.
In the latter part of the year, the group actuary has new applicable requirements.
reported both informally and formally on the results of the Q3 peer review process, which the committee considers to be a The auditor explained the results of their work on financial key control as it provides a level of informed independent instruments, including testing of their existence and valuation.
challenge for the reserve position.
To support the year end view, On the basis of their audit work, no misstatements that were the committee has received a detailed paper in support of the material in the context of the financial statements as a whole level of margin held within technical reserves in the groups were identified.
balance sheet, which formed the basis for a robust discussion.
Management confirmed that they remain satisfied that the c Recoverability of insurance receivables outstanding claims reserves included in the financial As detailed in note 18, the value of insurance receivables at statements provide an appropriate margin over projected 31 December 2014 is $587.0m.
The committee notes that ultimate claims costs to allow for the risks and uncertainties additional analysis in respect of ageing was requested and within the portfolio, and none of the committees other provided this year.
This will be further enhanced in 2015. enquiries identified any errors or inconsistencies that were The analysis did not identify any material instances of default material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
in relation to our insurance debtors.
The external auditors have also used the groups data to re-project the reserves using their own methodologies and the comparison presented to the committee has provided an additional level of challenge to the result.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditor reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole: and in the committees view this provides further support to the appropriateness of the groups methodology.
com 78 Beazley Annual report 2014 Statement of corporate governance continued The audit and risk committee is committed to obtaining d Recoverability of reinsurance assets The committee received confirmation from management that independent and objective external assessments of the internal audit function at appropriate intervals.
During 2014 the majority of Beazleys reinsurance receivables are due from an external quality assessment was undertaken which highly rated institutions.
Based on previous experience, the acknowledged the overall effectiveness of the function and committee has not noted any instances where poor quality made a number of recommendations as to how internal audit reinsurers have led to a material financial loss and is could develop further.
The committee considered the comfortable with the monitoring processes management recommendations and will oversee the progress of their have described and put in place to ensure this continues.
The external auditor has reported on the output of their work implementation during 2015. over assessing the recoverability of the groups reinsurance Assessing the effectiveness of the external auditors assets and the committee is comfortable that the judgements The committee places great emphasis on ensuring there are applied by management in making provision for bad debts is appropriate.
high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process.
Audit quality is assessed throughout the year, with a During 2014, in addition to financial reporting matters the focus on strong audit governance and the quality of the team.
The effectiveness of the audit is assessed through discussion following items were key topics of discussion for the committee: the progress and activity being undertaken towards ensuring throughout the year, taking into account considerations such as: that the group meets the requirements of Solvency II, including updates as to programme activity, outputs of reviewing the quality and scope of the audit planning and its responsiveness to changes in the business: internal model validation methodology and reporting requirements: monitoring of the auditors independence: considering the level of challenge evidenced in discussions the potential timelines for audit tendering in response to EU audit reform: and reporting: and discussing the output of the FRCs Audit Quality Review with the groups whistleblowing policy: and issues emerging from regulatory correspondence and the our auditors.
broader regulatory landscape, particularly in the US.
Non-audit services The audit and risk committees responsibility to monitor and Internal audit The Beazley plc board has delegated oversight of the groups review the objectivity and independence of the external auditor is supported by a policy that we have developed in relation internal audit function and its work to the audit and risk committee: the function reports directly to the committee.
The to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The objective is to ensure that the provision of such services committees terms of reference include approving the appointment or termination of appointment, of the head of does not impair the external auditors objectivity.
The policy specifically disallows certain activities to be provided by the internal audit and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function.
In reviewing the auditors, such as bookkeeping and accounting services, internal actuarial services and executive remuneration services.
effectiveness of the function the audit and risk committee remained satisfied that the internal audit function had sufficient The policy requires pre-approval for all other material services such as due diligence assistance, tax services and advice resources during the year to undertake its duties.
on accounting and audit matters.
The committee reviews the terms of such proposed services to ensure they have been During 2014, the committee: considered the results of all internal audit reports and robustly justified.
monitored the progress of the business in addressing the findings of internal audit: The committee receives a report from the external auditors twice a year setting out all non-audit services undertaken so approved the internal audit universe and 2015 internal audit plan: that it can monitor the types of services being provided, and the fees incurred for that work.
The aim is to limit the total reviewed and approved the internal audit charter: and monitored ongoing amendments to the internal audit spend on non-audit services to a maximum of the annual audit fee, unless it is deemed that not doing so is in the shareholders functions activities in light of emerging best practice in the financial sector.
interest from an efficiency and effectiveness point of view.
com 78 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 79 reverse stress testing: The committee has received the The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review is disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements.
results of the reverse stress testing exercise to understand what would have to happen for the group to be unviable and None of the non-audit services provided are considered by the audit and risk committee to affect the auditors independence has been able to provide assurance to the board that this work has been performed with the appropriate level of depth or objectivity.
and expertise: oversight of internal model: The committee and the risk Risk management The Beazley plc board has delegated oversight of the risk committees of the subsidiary boards have reviewed regular management framework to the audit and risk committee.
reports associated with the internal model.
These have To assist the board, the committee, supported by the risk included a standing report on internal model output, and committees of the subsidiary boards, receives and reviews a validation report covering both internal and independent reports from the risk management function focusing on the validation and themed reviews, for example, on the approach following areas: used to aggregate risk.
These assessments have supported risk appetite: The committee has monitored the actual the boards use of the internal model: and risk profile against risk appetite throughout 2014 and can quarterly ORSA: The committee has received a quarterly confirm that Beazley has been operating within risk appetite.
ORSA report and has reviewed it as part of the quality The committee has also reviewed the proposed 2015 risk assurance process before commending it to the board.
appetite and commended it to the Beazley plc board for approval: risk assessment: The committee has performed a review of the risk profile to ensure it covers the complete universe of risk and that all major underlying risks are visible and are being monitored: risk profiles: The committee and the risk committees of the subsidiary boards have reviewed risk profiles, which are focused risk assessments of specific topics.
In 2014, the committee considered the risks associated with travelling staff, the risks associated with cloud computing and the risks associated with Beazleys reserving process to confirm that it continues to produce an appropriate and consistent claims reserve for the financial statements.
The committee also considered an update on the Beazley Breach Response product given the continued evolution of the cyber environment: emerging risk: The committee supported the identification of strategic and emerging risks which were discussed: at the board meeting in May and have been subsequently monitored and reported in the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA : oversight of the control environment: The committee has received a quarterly consolidated assurance report which provides the status of the control environment with views from the business, from risk management, from compliance and from internal audit.
It also includes entries from the risk incident log: www.
com 80 Beazley Annual report 2014 Statement of corporate governance continued Remuneration committee Key activities in 2014 During 2014 the committee: reviewed the key aspects of the remuneration policy, and oversaw its implementation and application: satisfied itself that the current remuneration structure is appropriate to attract and retain talented people: considered the chief risk officers report on the remuneration policy, which confirmed that the remuneration arrangements are consistent with, and promote, effective risk management throughout the organisation through the consideration of remuneration design, performance of the control environment, profit related pay targets, calculation of the bonus pool, and share plan awards: ensured incentives continued to be appropriate and to align company and shareholders: approved the grant of share awards under the groups deferred, retention and LTIP plans: Padraic OConnor considered the salary and bonus awards for 2014 for executive directors, heads of control functions and other officers: approved the fee awards for non-executive directors and The membership of the remuneration committee recommended the chairmans fees to the board: and remained unchanged in 2014 and comprises reviewed the executive director employment contracts.
Padraic OConnor chairman, George Blunden, Dennis Holt and Ken Sroka.
Further information on the work of the remuneration committee is set out in the directors remuneration report.
Responsibilities of the committee The committees main responsibilities are to, inter alia: set the remuneration policy for the group for approval at the annual general meeting.
The objective of such policy shall be to ensure that members of the executive management of the company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the company: recommend and where appropriate approve targets for performance related pay schemes and seek shareholder approval for any long term incentive arrangements: recommend the remuneration of the chairman of the company, the chief executive, the executive directors, the direct reports to the chief executive, the company secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
No director or manager shall be involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration: obtain reliable, up-to-date information about remuneration in other companies: and appoint and review the performance of remuneration committee consultants, Deloitte LLP.
com 80 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 81 Nomination committee Policy on gender, diversity and inclusion We believe having a diverse and inclusive workplace will support our vision for growth and outperforming the market.
We continually review our approach to diversity and our aim is to have nurtured diverse employees across the business who are given the tools and opportunities to progress their career within Beazley.
Employing individuals with wider perspectives and from a broader skill base we believe will lead to a more dynamic, innovative, responsive organisation in touch with changes and developments in our working environment.
We have a defined policy and strategy that will enable us to: nurture diverse individuals across all areas of the business and encourage them to grow into senior positions with our organisation: develop plans on how to best support diversity in a way that is both locally relevant and globally impactful: Dennis Holt support, mentor and encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds to grow and develop within Beazley: have leadership and sponsorship of our vision at the most senior level of our organisation: The nomination committee is chaired regularly review our employment policies and practices.
by Dennis Holt and currently comprises We expect our people to respect them and work with George Blunden and Ken Sroka.
us to further enhance our diversity objectives: and ensure all employees receive equality of opportunity Responsibilities of the committee in recruitment, training, development, promotion The committees main responsibilities are to, inter alia: and remuneration.
regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required of Key activities in 2014 the board compared to its current and projected position: The 2014 board review was conducted internally through give full consideration to succession planning for executive questionnaires.
No significant matters were identified and the and non-executive directors and in particular for the key committee concluded that the board is balanced and has roles of chairman and chief executive, senior executives appropriate skills and competencies.
Some areas for process and any other member of the senior management as it is improvement were noted and the committee will oversee the relevant to consider: completion of the action plan in 2015.
Tasks which the board ensure the directors have the required skills and competence: carried out in 2014 were to: review annually the time required from non-executive directors: review the performance of management and consider the review the results of the board performance evaluation board and committee succession plans: process that relate to the composition and skills and ensure that director development plans were implemented competencies of the board and ensure an appropriate and that the board collectively received relevant training: and response to development needs: ensure board members were able to allocate sufficient time recommend to the board the appointments for the role of to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
senior independent director, chairman and membership of board committees: and recommend, if appropriate, all directors for re-election by shareholders under the annual re-election provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
