Governance Corporate governance statement CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION THE BOARD Corporate Governance is the process by which the Board Board composition seeks to look after shareholders interests and enhance The Board currently consists of seven non-executive Directors, shareholder value.
Shareholders hold the Directors all of whom are independent of the Companys Investment responsible for the stewardship of the Company, delegating Manager.
Mr Buchan acted as Senior Independent Director authority and responsibility to the Directors to manage the during the year.
The provision of the UK Code A.
2.1 which Company on their behalf and holding them accountable for relates to the combination of the roles of the chairman itsperformance.
andchief executive does not apply as the Company has no executive directors.
The Directors biographies, on page 20, The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and executing demonstrate a breadth of investment, commercial, the Companys strategy and for closely monitoring risks.
accounting, financial and professional experience which Weaim to run the Company in a manner which is responsible enables them to provide effective strategic leadership and and consistent with our belief in honesty, transparency and proper governance of the Company.
Details of the Chairmans accountability.
In our view, good governance means managing other signi cant time commitments can also be found on our business well and engaging effectively with investors.
consider the practice of good governance to be an integral part of the way we manage the Company and we are committed Board independence and tenure tomaintaining high standards of financial reporting, The Boards individual independence, including that of the transparency and business integrity.
Chairman, has been considered and con rmed, and this independence allows all of the Directors to sit on the As a UK-listed investment trust company our principal Companys various Committees.
The Board is of the view reporting obligation is driven by the UK Corporate Governance thatlength of service will not necessarily compromise the Code the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council independence or contribution of directors of an investment in September 2012.
However, as listed investment trust trust company, where continuity and experience can add companies differ in many ways from other listed companies, signi cantly to the strength of the Board.
It is considered the Association of Investment Companies has drawn up its thatMessrs Barby, Buchan and Lea, who have each served own set of guidelines, the AIC Code of Corporate Governance asa Director for over nine years, continue to be independent the AIC Code issued in February 2013, which addresses the inboth character and judgement and that there are no governance issues relevant to investment companies and relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect meets the approval of the Financial Reporting Council.
The UK Code is available from the Financial Reporting None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
The AIC Code is available from The terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to the Association of Investment Companies at theaic.
them when they join the Board.
Copies of these letters are available on request from the Companys registered of ce and This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
explainshow the Board deals with its responsibility, authority and accountability.
Diversity Our Company is highly specialised and our priority to COMPLIANCE shareholders is to have a Board with the specialist abilities The Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report and technical mining experience to look after the Companys to ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
In addition, the Board should be able to Itshould be noted that, as an investment trust, most of the demonstrate with conviction that any new appointee would Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third make a meaningful contribution.
We also focus on diversity party service providers, the Company has no employees and inits broadest sense, in terms of expertise, geographic the Directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all of the provisions background, gender and race.
of the UK Code are directly applicable to the Company.
The Board should have a blend of skills and attributes that The Board considers that the Company has complied with isappropriate to its needs: we believe that gender is an therecommendations of the AIC Code and the provisions important element and one we should aspire to on the basis contained within the UK Code that are relevant to the that the expertise is available.
As the Board is committed to Company throughout this accounting period, except where appointing the most appropriate candidate, regardless of explained below, and this statement describes how the gender or other forms of diversity, no targets have been set relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [29] Governance Corporate governance statement continued Judith Mosely, a Director, and Catherine Raw, who is currently asthey arise.
Key representatives of the Manager and or joint FundManager of the Company, are on the advisory board Investment Manager attend each meeting and between ofWomen in Mining UK, an organisation which seeks to thesemeetings there is regular contact with the Manager promote the employment, retention and professional andInvestment Manager.
The Board is supplied in a timely development of women in mining.
manner with information in aform and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge itsduties.
Directors appointment, retirement and rotation The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice The rules concerning the appointment, retirement and rotation and the services of the Manager which, through its nominated of Directors are discussed in the Directors Report on page 23. representative, is responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable The Directors support a planned and progressive renewing regulations are complied with.
The Board has established ofthe Board.
The Boards tenure and succession policy aprocedure whereby Directors wishing to do so in the seeksto ensure that the Board is well-balanced throughthe furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional appointment of new Directors with the skills and experience advice at the Companys expense.
Directors must be able to demonstrate commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Mr Edey and Ms Mosely are standing for election to the Board, In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, its having been appointed as Directors during the year.
The Board Committees and individual Directors, the Board carries out did not employ the services of a search company in their anannual appraisal process.
The evaluation for the year appointment.
The existing Directors identi ed Mr Edey and ended31 December 2014 has been carried out and took MsMosely as suitable candidates from their range of theform of self and peer group assessments followed by contactsand their appointments were fully debated by all individual discussions between the Chairman and Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was reviewed by the other Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, who is pleased to recommend his reappointment.
The appraisal Directors training and induction process is considered to be constructive in terms of identifying New appointees are given a brie ng on the workings and areas for improving the functioning of the Board and its processes of the Company including the receipt of key Committees and the contribution of individual Directors, as documentation and meet the Portfolio Managers, the well as building on and developing individual and collective Company Secretary and other key employees of the Manager.
There were no signi cant actions arising from the The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to evaluation process.
date and attend training courses on matters which are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company.
The Directors In 2012 the Board employed the services of an independent also receive regular brie ngs from, amongst others, the rm, BoardAlpha Limited, to carry out an external evaluation auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed ofthe Board and its Committees, together with individual developments or changes in laws or regulations that could Directors performance.
Formal performance evaluations will affect them or the Company.
continue to take place annually with the appointment of an external facilitator at least every three years.
Directors liability insurance The Company has maintained appropriate insurance cover DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES throughout the year.
The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: BOARDS RESPONSIBILITIES Management and administration The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective The management of the investment portfolio and the stewardship of the Company and a formal schedule of matters administration of the Company have been delegated to BFM as reserved for the decision of the Board has been adopted.
the Companys AIFM, and BFM with the permission of the Investment policy and strategy are determined by the Board.
Company have delegated certain investment management Itis also responsible for the gearing policy, dividend policy, and other ancillary services to BIM UK the Investment public documents such as the Annual Report and Financial Manager.
The contractual arrangements with the Manager are Statements, the terms of the discount control mechanism, summarised on pages 21 and 22.
The Manager, operating under buyback policy and corporate governance matters.
guidelines determined by the Board, has direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the day-to-day running of the The Board meets at least five times a year to review Company and is accountable to the Board for the investment, investment performance, financial reports and other reports financial and operating performance of the Company.
Board or Board committee meetings are Board has final investment authority on unquoted investments.
also held on an ad hoc basis to consider particular issues [30] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC The review of the Managers performance is an ongoing duty reporting process to review these controls, which has been and responsibility of the Board which is carried out at each inplace throughout the year under review and up to the date Board meeting.
In addition, a formal review is undertaken of this report, carried out by the Managers corporate audit annually, details of which are set out on page 22 of the department.
This accords with the Financial Reporting DirectorsReport.
Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors onthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching to the securities held in the portfolio to the The Manager reports to the Company on its review of internal Investment Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers controls, formally on a semi-annual basis at each Audit & approach to voting at shareholder meetings are set out on Management Engagement Committee meeting and verbally at pages 22 and 23. each Board meeting.
The Audit & Management Engagement Committee also receives annual and quarterly reports respectively from the Manager and custodian on the internal COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD controls of their respective operations, together with the Nomination Committee opinion of their reporting accountants.
As the Board is small and comprises only non-executive Directors it ful ls the function of the Nomination Committee The Board recognises that these control systems can only be and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
Should a designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure vacancyoccur or the Board decide to recruit new members, toachieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, the Board will take into account the size, balance and pro le butnot absolute, assurance against material misstatement ofthe Board as a whole to identify any areas that need orloss, and relies on the operating controls established by strengthening.
Due to the specialist nature of the investment theManager and Depositary.
The Manager prepares revenue mandate, and the dif culty in nding new Directors with forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to knowledge of the mining sector, the existing Directors will try assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
to identify suitable individuals from their range of contacts, The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly fide ned although other sources, including external search consultants, investment criteria, speci ed levels of authority and exposure may also be used as required.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are submitted to the Audit & Management Engagement Committee Board at each meeting.
A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement Committee has been established and currently consists of The Company does not have its own internal audit function, as allthe Directors of the Company.
Further details are given all the administration is delegated to the Manager.
The Board onpages 33 to 35 of the Report of the Audit & Management monitors the controls in place through the Managers internal Engagement Committee.
audit department and feels that there is currently no need for the Company to have its own internal audit function although Remuneration Committee this matter is kept under review.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is detailed FINANCIAL REPORTING inthe Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 28.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 36, INTERNAL CONTROLS the Independent Auditors Report on pages 39 to 41 and the The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the statement of Going Concern on page 23.
Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring that financial information published or used within the SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT business is reliable, and for regularly monitoring compliance Investment trusts do not employ staff and accordingly have with regulations governing the operation of investment trusts.
nodirect impact on social matters but can be signi cant The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control investors in the economies of the regions in which they invest.
systems to identify, evaluate and manage the Companys The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
As part of that process, there are procedures The Board believes that it is important to invest in companies designed to capture and evaluate any failings or weaknesses whose boards act responsibly in respect of environmental, and, should a case be categorised by the Board as signi cant, ethical and social issues.
The Investment Managers procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to evaluation procedures and financial analysis of the companies remedy the failing.
The Board is not aware of any signi cant within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, and also failings or weaknesses arising in the year under review.
takes into account environmental policies and other business issues.
The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to Control of the risks identi ed, covering financial, operational, meet its stated objectives.
compliance and risk management, is embedded in the operations of the Company.
There is a monitoring and ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [31] Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Manager is supportive of the UK Stewardship Code, which The Chairman and other Directors also meet with shareholders sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in periodically without the Manager being present.
The Chairman respect of investee companies, and is voluntary and operates and Directors may be contacted via the Company Secretary.
on a comply or explain basis.
The Managers approach to the Thedialogue with shareholders provides a two way forum UK Stewardship Code and policies on Socially Responsible forcanvassing the views of shareholders and enabling theBoard to become aware of any issues of concern, Investment are detailed on the website at blackrock.
com including those relating to performance, strategy and corporate en-gb about-us  corporate governance.
There is a section within this report entitled Additional BRIBERY PREVENTION POLICY Information - Shareholder Information, on pages 69 to 71, The provision of bribes of any nature to third parties in order to which provides an overview of useful information available to gain a commercial advantage is prohibited and is a criminal shareholders.
The Companys financial statements, regular offence.
The Board has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery factsheets and other information are also published on the and a commitment to carry out business fairly, honestly and BlackRock website at blackrock.
The Board takes its responsibility to prevent bribery undertaken by the auditor does not involve consideration of bythe Companys Manager on its behalf very seriously and the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, BlackRock has anti-bribery policies and procedures in place the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that which are high level, proportionate and risk based.
The have occurred to the financial statements since they were Companys service providers have been contacted on an initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need ongoing basis in respect oftheir anti-bribery policies and, to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing where necessary, contractualchanges are made to existing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ agreements in respect of anti-bribery provisions.
from legislation in their jurisdiction.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the theAnnual General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General Disclosure and Transparency Rules has been placed in the Meeting which is sent out 20 working days in advance of the Directors Report on pages 21 to 25 because it is information meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any item which refers to events that have taken place during the course notof an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors of the year.
Separate resolutions are proposed forsubstantive issues.
In addition, regular updates on performance are available to FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD shareholders on the BlackRock website and the Portfolio A W LEA Managers will review the Companys portfolio performance at Chairman the Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman of the Board 19 March 2015 and the Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee and representatives of the Manager and Investment Manager will be available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting gures will be announced to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and will be made available on the website shortly after theMeeting.
The Companys willingness to enter into discussions with institutional shareholders is also demonstrated by the programmes of institutional presentations by the Manager.
The Board discusses with the Managerat each Board meeting any feedback from meetings with shareholders and it also receives reports from its corporatebrokers.
[32] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
