Report of the Directors The Board is committed to an evaluation of its performance being carried out every year.
In accordance with Principle Seven of the AIC Code the Board has undertaken a second, externally facilitated evaluation by Optimus Group Limited who previously appraised the Board in 2011.
The 2014 external valuation confirmed that the Company observes high standards of corporate governance and the Board confirms that there are no outstanding recommendations from this evaluation.
Subsequent to the Board evaluation conducted by Optimus Group Limited, the Management and Remuneration Committee identified that the fees received by the directors of the Company were no longer in line with its peer group and had not risen for a number of years and recommended that these be increased.
The Board subsequently resolved on 18 August 2014, to increase the directors fees, effective 1 January 2014, as disclosed below: 2014 2013 Directors fee 42,000 35,000 Additional fee payable to chairman 18,000 15,000 Additional fee payable to Audit 8,000 5,000 Committee chairman Additional fee payable to senior 6,000 5,000 independent director NOMINATION COMMITTEE In accordance with the AIC Code, a Nomination Committee has been established and its membership and Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
Mr Crowder has been appointed as Chairman of this Committee, except when the Committee considers any matter in connection with the Chairmanship in which case the Committee will elect another Chairman.
Given that the Board consists solely of non-executive directors, each of whom are members of the Committee, the Board does not consider the Chairman being a member of the Committee to be inappropriate.
The function of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Company goes through a formal process of reviewing the balance, independence and effectiveness of the Board, identifying the experience and skills which may be needed and those individuals who might best provide them and to ensure that the individual has sufficient available time to undertake the tasks required.
When considering the composition of the Board, Directors will be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and 29 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Report of the Directors meritocracy.
The outside directorships and broader commitments of Directors are also monitored by the Nomination Committee.
The Board had undertaken the aforementioned formal review of the balance, independence and effectiveness of the Board therefore the Nomination Committee did not meet to consider this.
The Board concluded it did not have any objection to the current commitments of its members, including the shared directorships listed above and that no changes to the composition of the Board were required.
The Company supports the AIC Code provision that Boards should consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when making appointments and is committed to ensuring it receives information from the widest range of perspectives and backgrounds.
The Companys aim as regards the composition of the Board is that it should have a balance of experience, skills and knowledge to enable each Director and the Board as a whole to discharge their duties effectively.
Whilst the Company agrees that it is entirely appropriate that it should seek to have diversity on its Board, it does not consider that this can be best achieved by establishing specific quotas and targets and appointments will continue to be made based wholly on merit.
Accordingly should changes to the Board be required the Nomination Committee would have regard to the Boards Diversity Policy that when recruiting Directors, a comparative analysis of candidates qualifications and experience, applying pre-established clear, neutrally formulated and unambiguous criteria will be utilised to determine the most suitable candidate for the specific position sought.
Following the notification of the resignation of Jonathan Hooley, announced 13 March 2014, the Nomination Committee met to identify the experience and skills which would be needed following the departure of Mr. Hooley and those individuals who might best provide them.
The Nomination Committee devised five key objective criteria and mindful of the diversity policy of the Company, the Nomination Committee established a shortlist of candidates, interviewing each candidate individually.
Having considered these criteria, Mr Steve Le Page was deemed the most suitable candidate and on 3 June was appointed as a director of the Company as a result of this process.
As disclosed on page 21 the Company has engaged Thomas & Dessain International Search and Selection to manage the orderly succession of each director who has served longer than nine years under the oversight of the Nomination Committee, in line with objective criteria set by the committee, mindful of the diversity policy of the Company.
