Report of the Directors The Board believes that changes to its composition, including succession planning for the Chairman or other director, can be managed without undue disruption to the Companys operations.
Directors are able and encouraged to provide statements to the Board of their concerns and ensure that any items of concern are recorded in the Board minutes and the Chairman encourages all Directors to present their views on matters in an open forum.
The Board is also scheduled to consider the tenure of Directors once any Director has been appointed to the Board for a continuous period of nine years and this will occur in 2015 for Messrs Crowder, Meader and Le Prevost.
Whilst the Board is of the view that directors can continue in certain circumstances beyond a tenure of nine years, thereafter such Directors will be subject to increasing scrutiny as to their effectiveness and independence.
In order to achieve orderly succession and to retain corporate memory, it is the intention of the Board that one of each of the above three directors should step aside in each calendar year starting in 2015.
Under the supervision of the Nomination Committee, the Company has engaged Thomas & Dessain International Search and Selection to manage a structured and thorough search process.
AUDIT COMMITTEE In accordance with the AIC Code, an Audit Committee has been established and its membership and Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
In the opinion of the Board, the constitution, terms of reference and activities of the Audit Committee fulfil all the requirements of the Code, save that the Company does not maintain an internal audit function.
During 2014 the Company established a Risk Committee, and the report of the chairman of that committee can be found on page 38.
In establishing this new committee the Board were careful to seek to ensure that all areas of risk and control were addressed by either that committee or the Audit Committee.
Consequently the terms of reference of each committee make the division of responsibilities between them clear.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the controls and systems in place to address, inter alia, the risks of loss or misappropriation of assets, overstatement of liabilities or failure of financial reporting systems or processes, including valuation reporting and processes.
The Audit Committee also examines the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, or EY remuneration and engagement, as well as their independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee monitors the performance of the auditor and may, if deemed appropriate, consider arranging for the external audit contract to be tendered in 2016 being ten years from the initial appointment with the aim of ensuring a high quality and effective audit.
Meanwhile, the Audit 27 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
