Audit Committee Report MEMBERSHIP The current Chairman of the Audit Committee is Steve Le Page, who became Chairman on his appointment to the Board on 3 June 2014.
Jonathan Hooley was Chairman until his retirement from the Board on 25 April 2014, and Paul Meader was acting Chairman during the intervening period.
Mr Meader and Richard Crowder Company Chairman were members of the Audit Committee throughout 2014, although Mr Crowder resigned from the Committee on 13 January 2015.
John Le Prevost joined the Committee on 28 November 2014.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE AIC CODE In the opinion of the Board, the Audit Committee of the Company complies with the recommendations and requirements of the AIC code in all respects except as follows The Chairman of the Company was a member of the Committee as the Board consider that he was independent on appointment.
The Company does not have an internal audit function, because it has no employees and operates no systems of its own, relying instead on the employees and systems of its external service providers.
It should also be noted that the Company has established a Risk Committee to address the risks pertaining to the investment performance of the Company, and therefore the scope of the Audit Committee does not extend to consideration of those risks.
The Board has reviewed the scope of both Committees and is satisfied that all risks to which the Company is subject are appropriately managed.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions during 2014, and all meetings were fully attended by those persons who were members of the Committee at that time.
The external auditor attended two of these meetings, during which time the Committee and the auditor met privately, that is in the absence of any service providers.
KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE In the period since the last Audit Committee report, the key activities of the Committee have been Corresponding with the Financial Reporting Council about their review of the Companys 31 December 2012 financial statements: Monitoring and assessing the financial systems and controls operated by the Companys key service providers: Overseeing the preparation and publication of, and giving appropriate advice to the Board in respect of, the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014: 41 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Audit Committee Report Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit and the performance, independence and quality of the external auditors to the Company.
Each of these key activities is covered in more detail in the following sections.
FRC REVIEW OF 31 DECEMBER 2012 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the early part of calendar year 2014, the Company received a letter from the Conduct Committee of the Financial Reporting Council FRC raising a number of queries and observations based on the Companys 31 December 2012 financial statements.
After meeting with both the Companys auditor and administrator, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I sent a reply to this letter in which I clarified the Boards view of the points raised, resulting in a second exchange of brief letters.
In summary, I am pleased to say that whilst minor amendments to the disclosures made by the Company were implemented in response to this review, there were no material changes needed to the reporting of results or net asset values.
Most of the necessary amendments were made to the half year report for the period to 30 June 2014, and the remainder are reflected in these financial statements, where applicable.
The most significant change implemented is to highlight the gain made on repurchase of the Companys own shares in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as discussed in Note [1k] to the Financial Statements.
In considering its response to the FRC on this area, the Board felt that whilst this gain was not material in amount, it was an important element of performance which should be highlighted to investors.
The Board also accepted that the amount payable on the redemption of shares which took place in April 2013 should have been treated as a current liability in the December 2012 financial statements, and has undertaken to ensure that should such circumstances reoccur the correct treatment will be applied.
It is important to note that this change of treatment would not have had any impact on the result for 2012 or on the reported net asset value per share.
The Board would like to thank the Conduct Committee for its comments and its constructive approach to this review.
FINANCIAL SYSTEMS AND CONTROLS OPERATED BY SERVICE PROVIDERS In common with most investment funds, the Company is reliant on the systems, processes and controls operated by its service providers.
Throughout the year, the Committee is alert to any indication that service providers may not be performing as expected, such as inaccurate or delayed information, 42 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Audit Committee Report shareholder feedback and the level and standard of interaction between service providers.
In so doing the Committee uses its collective knowledge of how other entities are serviced as well as their own experience from previous roles with other service providers.
In addition, the Committee has reviewed the third party controls reports ISAE 3402 or equivalent reports provided by the following key service providers to AllBlue ISAE 3402 Report from the administrator of AllBlue: ISAE 3402 Report from the investment manager of AllBlue.
A Director has also visited the Companys Secretary and Administrator to carry out a detailed review of their processes under the direction of the Management & Remuneration Committee, and the findings have been taken into account by the Committee.
Finally, the non-executive directors all visited BlueCrest, the investment manager of AllBlue Limited and AllBlue Leveraged Feeder Fund Limited, to discuss their processes and activities and their possible impact on the Company.
On the basis of the activities described immediately above, the committee identified some delays and minor inaccuracies, none of which resulted in any financial loss.
As a result, the Committee is satisfied that the Companys reliance on service providers is not misplaced and the systems of internal control operated on the Companys behalf should prevent material error or misstatement of financial information.
PREPARATION OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT In October and November 2014 the Committee met with both the external auditor and the Secretary and Administrator, and as Chairman I met with each of these parties separately, to consider the timetable for production of this annual report and to review the proposed scope of the external audit and the arrangements for cooperation between them.
The Companys key risks, principal accounting policies and significant areas of judgment or estimation all as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report were also considered for appropriateness and completeness.
As a result of these meetings we were able to conclude that the annual report production process had been properly planned and prepared for.
In March 2015 the Committee reviewed the draft annual report for compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards and applicable Law or regulation, and also reconsidered the key risks, principal accounting policies and significant areas of judgment or estimation to ensure the disclosure of these items and their application to the annual report remained appropriate.
This review and reconsideration included further meetings with the external auditor and Secretary and Administrator.
It also included certain activities connected with the review of service providers, as detailed above.
43 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Audit Committee Report The significant issues which the Committee considered in relation to these financial statements, in addition to those set out elsewhere in this section, were the existence and valuation of the Companys investment holdings.
Existence was verified by obtaining direct confirmation from the administrators of each underlying investment.
The price at which each investment is valued was also confirmed directly in this way.
In addition, the Committee considered the results of the service provider monitoring referred to above and especially the ISAE 3402 report from the administrator of AllBlue, and also reviewed the actual volume of trading in those investments around the year end to confirm the liquidity of that price.
The Committee concluded that the investments existed and were properly valued in accordance with the accounting policy of the Company, set out on page 50.
Having carried out the activities set out above the Committee concluded that the financial statements were fairly stated.
The Committee also read the entire annual report for consistency both internally and with their detailed knowledge of the Company throughout the year, and also considered whether it was as clear and as concise as possible.
We then considered the information needs of the likely users of the annual report and whether they were met.
Our conclusion was that, taken as a whole, the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Finally in respect of the annual report, in March the Committee considered the regular monitoring of the Companys cash position carried out by the Board, together with a detailed cash forecast for the period until 31 March 2016.
The principal uncertainty involved in the forecasting of the Companys cash requirements is the level at which cash will be utilised in support of the Companys policy of buying back its own shares to reduce the discount to NAV at which they trade.
The Committee is satisfied that with the level of cash held, the regular monitoring by the Board and the liquidity of the Companys investments, it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS As noted above the Committee has met with the external auditors on several occasions and this has given us the opportunity to assess the quality of the people involved in our audit and of the content and relevance of their presentations.
We also considered their risk assessment, planned responses and general approach as well as their actual delivery against plan and discussed with our Administrator the degree of challenge they experienced from the external auditors.
We concluded that the external audit process was appropriate to the Companys circumstances and likely to prove effective.
44 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Audit Committee Report The external auditors provide only minimal non-audit services to the Company, and it is the Committees expectation that this situation will continue, as we do not anticipate the need to seek other services from them.
The Committee has a formal policy concerning non-audit services, detailed on the companys website, should the need arise.
The Committee has also considered all the aspects of auditor independence set out in the Code and in the Ethical Standards applicable to our auditor, at both the planning and final delivery stages of the audit.
We note that Ernst & Young are also auditors to the significant investments held by the Company and to other structures managed or advised by BlueCrest and its affiliates.
We have carefully considered whether these other audit relationships might impinge upon the independence of our auditors and have concluded that any perceived risk in this respect is adequately safeguarded against.
The safeguards considered include the fact that the financial records of the investments and of the Company are maintained by different third parties who are themselves independent both of each other and of BlueCrest.
The Committee having concluded that the external audit is effective and that the external auditors are independent and competent has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP be put to the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
Steve Le Page Chairman 45 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
