Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Risk Committee Report Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 The Company has undertaken a fundamental review of risk governance, risk processes, methodology and risk appetite as part of Angela Knight developing its risk Senior Independent Director management framework.
Risk Committee Chairmans overview Identification of the key risks faced by a company and the management and control of the risks, is an important activity and particularly for a company operating in the financial services industry.
In order to bring clarity and focus on risk issues across the Group, three years ago the Board established a Board Risk Committee the Committee.
This report sets out the roles and responsibility of the Committee, its membership and its work of the last year.
As the Committee has oversight of the Risk Management Framework of the Group and specifically the effectiveness of risk management governance and of regulation activity, during the year a fundamental review of risk governance, risk processes and methodology and risk appetite, has taken place for the purposes of developing this framework.
The Committee role has been in reviewing and challenging this work including all key components of the revised framework and recommending the outcomes for approval by the Board.
The Committee has also examined how risk appetite is determined and expressed, with the result that this has been enhanced and the metrics used to monitor risk profile against the risk appetite have been improved.
A third key area of work of the Committee has been to review jointly with the Audit Committee developments in relation to the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and to improve the governance, quality and use of the ICAAP.
The Committee also supports the Board in its consideration of the business activities that expose the business to material risk, taking into account forward looking aspects of risk exposure.
The Committee advises the Board on the considerations and processes for setting the risk appetite and related tolerances, with the Board retaining responsibility for approval of the risk appetite.
Role and responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee In addition to its responsibilities for the Risk Management Framework and governance, risk appetite and the ICAAP as already set out, the Committee has remained closely interested in the development of the Groups investment processes.
We see this as a key part of the group-wide initiative of being in the forefront of efficiency with standards that underpin excellence of service and being assured that all clients are treated fairly and receive suitable advice.
The Committee receives a report on operational and regulatory issues at every meeting and other key matters arising from the executive Risk Management Committee RMC which is chaired by the Head of Regulation & Risk and includes the Chief Executive, Head of Investment Management, Head of Operational Risk, the Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer and heads of key support functions.
Its work includes the development of the Group Risk Framework and ICAAP, risk and compliance management information, progression of initiatives to mitigate risks and to approve policies and policy standards.
The Committee reports on its proceedings to the Board and on any appropriate matters to the Audit Committee.
It identifies any issues it considers where action and improvements are needed and makes recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Committee has reviewed its terms of reference during the year in conjunction with the Audit Committee to ensure that the roles and responsibilities of each are clear and areas of overlap are minimised.
Terms of reference are then referred to the Board for approval.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Governance Risk Committee Report continued In summary, the Committee is responsible for: Reviewing the Groups risk framework and approving risk policies, standards and limits within the overall appetite and tolerance approved by the Board.
Reviewing the Groups processes for determining risk appetite tolerance and monitoring compliance with approved risk tolerance levels.
Reviewing the Groups material risk exposures and the mitigations in place to control them.
Keeping under review the framework and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
Reviewing and challenging the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
Approving the annual compliance plan for the Group.
Ensuring that the Regulation and Risk function has adequate resources and independence to enable it to perform its function effectively.
Committee members The Committee is chaired by Angela Knight and comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors Angela Knight, Ian Dewar and Paul Wilson.
The Group Head of Regulation and Risk was a member of the Committee for part of the year however a review of the Committees composition and terms of reference determined that it was more appropriate for the Head of Regulation and Risk to be a standing attendee than a full member.
Other standing attendees include the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Investment Management and representatives from internal and external audit are invited to attend meetings where appropriate.
Attendance at meetings and changes to composition in the year are set out on page 39.
Committee activities The Committee has met five times during the year and attendance at those meetings is shown on page 39 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The work of the Committee has followed an agreed annual work plan, which evolved during the year in response to changes in both the external and regulatory environments.
During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: Group Risk Framework An extensive gap analysis of the Group Risk Framework against current regulation and guidance was conducted during the year.
Areas were identified as requiring improvement, the revised framework was developed accordingly and reviewed by the Committee.
As part of this work, the Committee reviewed and challenged the key components which included risk evaluation matrices, risk appetite, risk policies and the ICAAP process.
The full implementation of the revised risk management framework will continue into 2014 15.
Key Group risks The Committee continued to monitor the key risks against the changing external and regulatory environment and the strategy adopted by the Board.
The Committee reviewed and revised key risk matrices and risk categorisations and the results of a mapping exercise undertaken to clarify how risks were being captured in the new framework.
The Committee agreed the revised principal risks which are set out on page 27.
ICAAP The Risk Committee and Audit Committee worked together for the purposes of considering the ICAAP.
Approval was given to the approach to develop a more robust ICAAP methodology, the outcome reviewed and after consideration and challenge its approval was recommended to the Board.
Regulatory oversight The Committee maintained the oversight of the regulatory risks throughout the organisation and discussed the specific management actions identified to address or mitigate issues which arose during the year.
Reporting The Committee reviewed regular reports from the Group Head of Regulation and Risk covering regulatory engagement in the period, key operational risk findings, compliance monitoring activities, regulatory developments, complaints data, financial crime policy key activities and progress against plans and resources.
44 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Risk Management Framework The Groups Risk Management Framework describes the environment in which risks are identified, recorded, assigned clear ownership, analysed and measured, controlled, monitored, reported and governed within risk appetite and tolerances set by the Board.
It also includes the ICAAP which, amongst other things, assess the amount of capital the Group should hold against its risks.
In summary: Risks and risk ownership are identified and classified in a top down process by the Board, the Board Risk Committee and Executive, validated by a bottom up view of key risks from operational management levels.
This process includes careful analysis of those risks which are most relevant and important, having regard to the impact upon the Group were they to crystallise into an event.
Appetite and tolerance levels for key risks are determined by the Board, advised by the Executive and having regard to operational information, to determine the level of risk that the Board is prepared to accept.
Risk appetite and tolerances are applied to help determine a control framework comprising policies, systems and other mitigants the Group should operate to control actual risk exposures.
The controls act to reduce the probability of a risk crystallising into an event and the impact if it does.
The Group maintains systems and databases to measure, monitor and test the effectiveness of controls and monitor risk management performance.
Governance of the Risk Management Framework is exercised principally through the Risk Management Committee, the Committee and the Board.
The Risk Management Committee receives and reviews a variety of risk management information and acts as the central approval mechanism for approving policies within the risk appetite and tolerances set by the Board and makes recommendations for the Committee to consider and approve for reference to the Board regarding the key risks, risk appetite and tolerances and the results of the ICAAP.
The effectiveness of the Risk Management Framework and the control environment is tested by Internal Audit and additional assurance is provided through Audit Assurance Faculty AAF Assurance reports performed in conjunction with internal and external auditors.
Further work will be undertaken in 2014 15 to enhance the ability to measure more directly risk management performance against the risk appetite and tolerances set by the Board.
This will further enhance the ability of the Board and Committees to test and challenge the performance of the business.
Risks and uncertainties The principal risks to the business are assessed and reviewed by the RMC, subsequently reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and then considered by the Board.
The register of principal risks is formally approved by the Board.
A description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties together with the key mitigants and controls are set out in the Strategic Report on page 27.
The Groups principal risks are categorised as Business and Strategic Risk, Financial Risk and Operational Risk.
The Group has deployed a range of preventative and detective controls which, together with insurance, mitigate its risks.
The Committee keeps these risks under regular review to ensure that the Group manages its risk profile within its appetite and capacity for risk.
Angela Knight Chairman of the Risk Committee 2 December 2014 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
