Governance Corporate Governance Report Statement of compliance with the Code The Group is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010 and revised in September 2012.
A new version of the Code will apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 therevised Code and the Directors intend to report compliance with the revised Code in the 2015 Annual Report.
The following statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Risk Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Strategic Report explain how the provisions set out in the Code have been applied and detail the Groups compliance with the provisions of the Code for the year.
The Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2014, except for the following: The Board has been in compliance with the requirement under the Code B.
1.2 for at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise Non-Executive Directors since the appointment of Ian Dewar on 15 November 2013.
For the period of the year before his appointment, the Board comprised the Chairman, four Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
The current composition of the Board is explained below.
In designing schemes of performance related remuneration, the remuneration of Directors fully complies with the provisions inSection D to the Code, save for Michael Williams, Executive Director which does not fully comply with Section D. 1.1 and ScheduleA of the Code.
Michael Williams variable remuneration is determined by reference to his own teams investment management performance in line with other Investment Managers within the Group.
One-third of variable remuneration above 50,000 is compulsorily deferred into shares.
Michael Williams has announced his intention to retire from the Board at the AGM in February 2015.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 64 provides details of the Remuneration Policy and implementation of that policy for all Directors.
The Board At the year end the Board comprised the Chairman, four Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman is Simon Miller, the Chief Executive is David Nicol and the Senior Independent Director is Angela Knight.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 36 to 37.
Jock Worsley, the previous Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, retired from the Board at the AGM on 17February 2014.
Ian Dewar was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 15 November 2013 and succeeded Jock Worsley as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Angela Knight succeeded as the Senior Independent Director.
Paul Wilson joined the Board on 9December 2013 and took on the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee following the 2014 AGM.
Caroline Taylor joined theBoard as a Non-Executive Director on 21 May 2014.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the Board to be independent in accordance with provision B.
1.1 of the Code, and have been so throughout the year.
The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element on the Board and are well placed to constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management.
They bring robust opinions, knowledge and skill to Board discussions.
Jock Worsley, who was a Director until 17 February 2014, had served for more than nine years on the Board but the Board do not believe that the length of his tenure affected his independent judgement.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the Board and Committee composition during the year and certain changes were made, which are described in the Nomination Committee Report on page 50.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Its principal responsibilities are to: Set the Groups standards, values and principles.
Set the Groups strategy and long-term objectives.
Approve the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
Approve Financial Statements, dividend policy and declaration of dividends.
Approve major capital projects, material contracts, major investments or disposals.
Approve changes to Board composition.
Oversee the Groups operations and reviewing performance in light of the Groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
Ensure that a sound system of internal control and risk management is maintained.
38 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate Committees, whose principal responsibilities are: Minimum number of Committee Role and terms of reference Membership meetings per year Audit Reviews the Groups financial reporting, At least three Directors.
Four recommends to the Board that the Report and Onlyindependent Directors can be Accounts should be signed, reviews internal members.
financial control, and assesses the independence and effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
Risk Oversees the Risk Management Framework of At least three Directors.
Four the Group and assists the Board in discharging Only independent Directors can its responsibilities for the integrity of the Groups bemembers.
internal control and risk management systems.
Remuneration Sets the remuneration policy for the Group and the At least three independent Directors.
Three individual remuneration of the Executive Directors The Board Chairman may also be and other staff designated as Code staff under a member.
Nomination Reviews the composition of the Board and At least three Directors, the majority of Two its Committees and ensures that appropriate which are independent.
procedures are in place for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of Directors and that there is an effective framework for succession planning.
Executive Manages the day-to-day running of the Group, Membership is determined by the Twelve including the development and implementation ChiefExecutive.
of strategy, monitoring of operating and financial performance and the prioritisation and allocation of resources.
A report from the Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees is set out on pages 43 to 64.
The Group has established a Corporate Responsibility Committee which is chaired by Sir Stephen Lamport, a Non-Executive Director.
More details of the Groups Corporate Responsibility policy are set out on pages 65 to 68.
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is set out below.
The Audit and Board Risk Committees held two joint meetings during the year to review the ICAAP.
Joint Audit Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Risk andRisk Non-Executive Chairman 1 Simon Miller 8 9 6 8 2 2 n a n a n a Executive Directors David Nicol 9 9 n a 2 2 n a n a n a Stephen Ford 9 9 n a n a n a n a n a Andrew Westenberger 9 9 n a n a n a n a n a Michael Williams 9 9 n a n a n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 2 Ian Dewar 8 8 1 1 n a 7 7 3 3 1 2 3 Stephen Lamport 9 9 6 7 n a 5 9 2 5 n a 4 Angela Knight 9 9 7 7 2 2 9 9 5 5 2 2 5 Caroline Taylor 4 4 1 1 1 1 0 0 n a 1 1 6 Paul Wilson 7 7 5 5 1 1 n a 2 2 2 2 7 Jock Worsley 4 4 3 3 n a 5 5 2 2 n a 1 Simon Miller became Chair of the Nomination Committee on 31 March 2014.
2 Ian Dewar was appointed to the Board on 15 November 2013, as Chair of the Audit Committee and as a member of the Risk Committee on 17 February 2014 and as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 22 July 2014.
3 Sir Stephen Lamport resigned from the Risk Committee on 31 March 2014, and the Audit and Nomination Committees with effect from 22 July 2014.
4 Angela Knight resigned from the Remuneration Committees with effect from 22 July 2014.
5 Caroline Taylor was appointed to the Board on 21 May 2014 and to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees with effect from 22 July 2014.
6 Paul Wilson was appointed to the Board on 9 December 2013, as Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 17 February 2014, to the Risk Committee with effect from 31 March 2014 and to the Nomination Committee with effect from 22 July 2014.
7 Jock Worsley resigned from the Board, Risk and Audit Committees with effect from 17 February 2014.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Length of tenure of Directors Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Balance of male and female Directors at 28 September 2014 Directors at 28 September 2014 at 28 September 2014 1 2 4 5 5 4 8 1 Chairman 02 years Male Executive 25 years Female Independent Non-Executive Over 5 years Independent non-executive The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without Executive Directors present and, at least once a year, the Senior Independent Director meets with Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
At least one of the scheduled Board meetings is devoted to reviewing the Groups strategic objectives, which provides a further opportunity for all Directors and particularly the Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the strategy is rigorously reviewed and challenged and that the processes in place for assessing its implementation are effective.
Development Appropriate training and induction is made available to newly appointed Directors, taking into account any previous experience they may already have as Directors of a public limited company or otherwise.
The induction programme for new Directors will typically include meetings with the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team covering the Board, the business, finance, regulation and risk, operations and key change programmes as well as branch visits.
Training sessions are undertaken for the entire Board and individually as appropriate.
The whole Board training programme for the year included briefings on the ICAAP, Directors duties in a regulated entity, risk management and internal control and detailed briefings from the business.
The roles of the Chief Executive and Chairman There is a clear division of duties between the Chief Executive and the Chairman, with roles that have been clearly defined in writing and are reviewed annually and agreed by the Board.
This ensures that a clear balance of power and authority is present.
Board evaluation In line with the Code, a formal evaluation of the Board and its Committees is carried out on an annual basis and at least every three years is facilitated by an independent third party.
The 2014 evaluation was facilitated by Trust Associates Limited, who had no other links to the Company.
Trust Associates facilitated a Board performance evaluation in 2011 and noted that there has been significant progress made in implementing the recommendations from that review.
There were no material areas of concern highlighted from the 2014 review, though some areas for improvement were identified.
The Board has agreed appropriate actions to address these areas which include spending more, regular time on forward looking issues, developing further the ways in which the Board hold the Executive to account for performance and implementation of strategy, and continuing the work being done through the Board Committees to strengthen the assurance being provided to the Board.
Overall, the evaluation process confirmed that the Board was operating effectively within a culture that allowed open and challenging debate and that all Directors individually made valuable contributions and demonstrated commitment to the role.
40 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Appointment of Directors The Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable regulations and policies govern the appointment of the Directors.
The Directors service agreements or letters of appointment as applicable are available for viewing via the Company Secretary.
Directors may be elected by shareholders in a general meeting or appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code all Directors will be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman has considered the performance of Directors as part of the annual Board evaluation process and recommends that all Directors be re-elected by shareholders.
Biographical details can be found on pages 36 and 37.
Directors conflicts of interest The Board has a policy and effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at all Board meetings and gives each Director the opportunity to raise any conflict of interest they may have, or to update the Board on any change to a previous conflict of interest already lodged.
A Register of Conflicts is held by the Company Secretary and a log of all conflicts raised is maintained and updated accordingly.
All Directors are aware that it is their responsibility to raise and update any conflicts of interest they may have.
Internal control and risk management The Board undertakes a full review of all aspects of the Groups business to identify the main risks to the business and the key controls to counter those risks.
The Board recognises that its risk management strategy is essential for achieving good business governance to protect stakeholders and enhance shareholder value.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establish a system of internal control.
It reviews its effectiveness periodically, by receiving ongoing reports on internal control from the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
An explanation of the Groups risk framework is given in the Risk Committee Report on page 45.
The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control established by the Group, reviewing its effectiveness and reporting to the shareholders that they have done so.
They report as follows: i There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group as outlined above and in the Board Risk Committee report on pages 43 to 45.
This has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance in the Code.
Any system of internal control is designed to highlight and manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has implemented the Three Lines of Defence model to ensure a robust and effective framework to manage internal controls and risks across the organisation.
It facilitates the decision making process while providing effective governance around risk management and assurance.
ii Financial results, key operating statistics and controls are reported to the Board regularly, and variances are followed up.
Regular reports are received from the Regulation and Risk, and Internal Audit functions.
iii The Directors have reviewed the Groups system of internal controls and compliance monitoring and believe that these provide assurance that problems have been identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately throughout the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Both the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee assist the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
iv There is a whistleblowing policy detailing the internal or external procedures through which employees are able to raise any concerns.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all Corporate Governance matters as well as ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take, if necessary, independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Insurance The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of litigation against the Directors.
Relationship with shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with shareholders and aims to keep shareholders informed by regular communication.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investment Management meet regularly with the Groups institutional investors, analysts and financial press.
Annual and interim reports are distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and the Groups website is kept up-to-date covering all corporate activity.
The Board is provided with regular feedback following meetings with shareholders.
The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective communication with all of its shareholders.
The Company welcomes all shareholders to its AGM, with the opportunity to ask questions formally at the meeting or more informally with all members of the Board afterwards.
The Companys policy is to announce the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the AGM.
For shareholders who are clients of Brewin Dolphin Limited and who hold their shares in one of our nominee accounts, we provide an online voting service on the Group website for shareholders to vote before our AGM.
Model Code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FCA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
Louise Meads Company Secretary 2 December 2014 42 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
