Governance Audit Committee Report It has been a year of both transition and challenge for the Audit Committee as wehave sought to meet ever higher expectations of Ian Dewar Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Chairmans overview I was delighted to take over the Chairmanship of the Committee on Jock Worsleys retirement and am pleased to welcome Caroline Taylor as a new member of the Committee.
She brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in Operations and IT, both of which are areas of focus for the Committee.
Caroline replaces Sir Stephen Lamport, who I would like to thank for his insightful comments and contribution over many years.
During the year we appointed  PwC to replace Grant Thornton LLP as internal auditors and they are nearing the end of a very full programme of audits.
We receive extensive reports from Internal Audit both in Committee and in separate private briefings and have established a new system for tracking management actions taken in response to the issues they raise.
As of October 2014 they have completed 17 of the 32 audits planned for the 2014 calendar year.
We are about to carry out an assessment of the effectiveness of PwC at the end of their first year in role.
We have also had change in External Audit with the rotation of our previous audit partner at the end of last years audit.
We are very conscious of the Code requirement to put the external audit out to tender every 10 years and currently intend to do so during the course of our new partners five year term.
As well as spending time on the regular activities set out in this report the Committee had a particular focus on the accounting and control implications of the decision taken to not rollout a new technology system for the Group, and has been closely monitoring the implementation of a new investment process.
We have also worked extensively with the Risk Committee in completing the Groups ICAAP.
Looking ahead to 2014 15 we will continue our focus on the investment process and IT Operations.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Committee is a formally constituted Committee of the Board whose terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Committee and subsequently referred to the Board for approval.
The Committee is responsible for: Monitoring the integrity of the Accounts of the Group and any formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein, prior to their submission to the Board.
Reviewing the Groups framework and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial controls.
Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors and on the approval of their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Maintaining and reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Monitoring the work of the Groups Internal Audit function and reviewing its effectiveness.
Reviewing the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud.
Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys anti-money laundering systems and controls.
46 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 The Committee maintains a formal schedule of items that are to be considered at each Committee meeting and within the annual audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of the Code and all areas of its remit are addressed.
The items to be reviewed are agreed by the Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members.
Each member can require reports on additional matters of interest.
The Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Investment Management, Head of Regulation and Risk, and Head of Internal Audit normally attend Audit Committee meetings.
At the Committees request, other senior management are invited to present reports as relevant and the external auditors attend a number of meetings.
The number of meetings and attendance for the year are on page 39 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Committee members The current members of the Committee are the independent Non-Executive Directors Ian Dewar Chairman, Angela Knight and Caroline Taylor.
The composition of the Committee is reviewed by the Nomination Committee which makes recommendations for change to the Board as appropriate.
The composition of the Committee was reviewed by the Nomination Committee during the year and the Board approved some changes to reflect the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors.
Attendance at meetings and changes to composition in the year are set out on page 39.
Ian Dewar is the member of the Committee considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience as he is a Chartered Accountant who was a partner at KPMG until 2013.
Other members of the Committee have extensive experience of the financial services industry.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Committee members as appropriate, taking into account their existing experience and ongoing training to enable the Committee members to carry out their duties.
Committee activities Financial reporting Reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts, and the Interim Report.
As part of these reviews, the Committee received a report fromthe external auditors on the audit of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Received a report from the external auditors on their review of the effectiveness of controls across the Group and reviewed areporton management action taken in response to that report.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts onthis matter.
Reviewed the Annual Report to ensure that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess performance, business model and strategy.
Internal Audit Conducted a formal tender process for the provision of Internal Audit services and selected PwC toprovide Internal Audit services tothe Group from January 2014.
Internal Audit services were previously provided by Grant Thornton LLP.
Reviewed and approved the new Internal Audit plan for the year.
Reviewed reports from Internal Audit including management responses to the findings of the reports and their proposals.
Reviewed how issues identified for action, whether arising from Internal Audit reports or from internal control processes, are identified, progressed and reported to ensure that there is an effective framework for the management of issues within the Group.
Money laundering reports Reviewed the formal report from the Groups Money Laundering Reporting Officer on the operation and effectiveness of systems andcontrols relating to anti-money laundering and the prevention of financial crime.
ICAAP Worked with the Board Risk Committee to approve the approach to developing a more robust ICAAP methodology.
Reviewed the ICAAP that was produced based on this revised methodology and after extensive review and challenge of the ICAAPand its key components, recommended its approval to the Board.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Whistleblowing Reviewed the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers and approved a revised policy which more clearly identified the process for employees to follow and the independent Non-Executive Director to which concerns can be escalated in confidence.
External auditors Reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors.
Agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditors for the audit of the 28 September 2014 Accounts.
Evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Terms of Reference Reviewed its terms of reference in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee to ensure clarity of their respective roles and responsibilities, and recommended revised terms of reference to the Board for approval.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee reviewed the following significant risks and issues in relation to the Group Accounts and disclosures for the year ended 28 September 2014: The effects of the decision taken by the Board to cease the roll out of a major technology programme to the whole Group and specifically the impairment of the Intangible Asset carried and the provision for future licence payments in respect of the software.
The carrying value of Goodwill and Client Relationships with a particular focus on any indications of impairment, the amortisation periods for Client Relationships and the estimates of shares to be issued and deferred purchase consideration in respect of acquisitions of businesses and client relationships based on discounted estimates of future earnings.
Assumptions underlying the calculation of retirement benefit obligations.
Estimates of the fair value of equity instruments used for the settlement of share-based payments made under the Groups employee incentive plans, including assumptions on the likelihood of meeting the performance conditions attached to those awards.
Onerous contract provisions primarily in respect of surplus space identified as part of a review of the Groups property portfolio taking into account the uncertainty of future rental income.
These issues were discussed with management at various stages during 2013 14 and during the preparation and conclusion of the Accounts.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management the Committee is satisfied that the Accounts appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the disclosures made.
The Committee has discussed these issues with the auditors during the audit planning process and at the conclusion of the year end audit and is satisfied that its conclusions are in line with those drawn by the auditors in relation to these issues.
Internal Audit The Internal Audit function was conducted from September 2013 to January 2014 by Grant Thornton LLP, who had been providing Internal Audit services to the Group since January 2009.
As part of its review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, the Committee determined that the Group would benefit from refreshing the firm providing these services and a formal tender process was conducted.
 was selected as the new partner and began providing Internal Audit services to the Group in January 2014.
The Committee will conduct a formal assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal Auditor in January 2015.
External auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy sets out the categories of any non-audit services which the external auditors will be allowed to undertake and provides an approval process for the provision of any other non-audit services.
This policy is available on the Investor Relations section of the Groups website, under the Board Committees subsection.
The Board generally only uses the auditors for audit and related activities.
If there is a business case to use the external auditors for the provision of non-audit services, prior permission is required from the Committee, which will review the proposal to ensure that it will not impact the auditors objectivity and independence.
The majority of tax advisory and similar work is carried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of auditors remuneration is provided in note 8 to the Accounts.
48 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 In determining the effectiveness of the external audit the Committee takes account of the following factors: Factor Assessment The audit partner The extent to which the partner demonstrates a strong understanding of the business and industry and the challenges faced by the business, and the length of time acting as the lead engagement partner.
The audit team The extent to which the audit team understand the business and industry and are properly resourced and experienced.
The audit approach That the audit approach is discussed with management and targets the significant issues early, is communicated properly, is appropriate for the business and industry and includes an appropriate level of materiality.
The role of management That information provided by management is timely and correct with proper supporting papers, and that accounting systems and internal controls work effectively.
The communications and formal reporting That management and the Committee are kept appropriately informed as the bythe auditors audit progresses and that the formal report is appropriate and contains all relevant material matters.
The independence and objectivity of theauditor That the auditor complies with the Financial Reporting Councils ethical standards, has the required degree of objectivity including their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and that the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor does not compromise independence.
Following its review of the effectiveness of the 2013 14 audit, the Committee is satisfied that the external auditor, Deloitte, continues to provide an effective audit and recommended to the Board that reappointment of the auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
In accordance with UK regulations, the Groups auditor adheres to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead engagement partner is appointed in place of the previous lead engagement partner once he has completed a term of five years in that role.
A new lead audit partner was appointed for the 2013 14 audit.
The Committee has considered the existing UK Corporate Governance Code provision for companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years and also the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on aligning the timing of such re-tenders with audit engagement partner rotation.
It has also noted the proposed transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering to fit the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation.
The Committees current intention is that it will initiate a re-tendering process before the end of the current audit partners rotation 2017 2018.
This will be kept under review and the Committee will use its regular reviews of auditor effectiveness to assess the most appropriate time for such a re-tender during that period.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the external auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of replacement external auditor.
The external auditor meets privately with the Committee at least twice a year without senior executive management being present.
Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts The Committee has performed a review of the report and accounts to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
Ensuring that this standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial reporting issues affecting the Group on a year round basis, in addition to a focused review as part of the Annual Report production process.
This focused review includes a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal consistency throughout the Annual Report and Accounts, taking account of the consistency of the presentation of risks and significant judgements throughout the main areas of risk disclosure.
The Directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 71.
Ian Dewar Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 December 2014 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
