Governance Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee continued to review Board composition throughout the year and I am delighted to have strengthened the Board Simon Miller with further Non-Executive Chairman appointments.
Nomination Committee Chairmans overview The Nomination Committee has continued to review the composition of the Board during the year and made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board and improve the overall executive nonexecutive balance.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board Committees and made recommendations to the Board for changes which utilised the experience of the newly appointed Directors.
One of the outcomes of this review was that it was most appropriate for the Committee to be chaired by the Board Chairman and I consequently became Chairman of the Nomination Committee in March 2014.
In addition to the focus on Board and Committee composition, the Nomination Committee has spent time reviewing the succession plans at both Board and senior management level.
Role and responsibilities The Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure they are properly constituted and balanced in terms of skills, experience and diversity.
It does this through a formal assessment of each Directors skills and experience to identify any skills gaps that need to be addressed and to assist with Board succession planning.
In addition to this, the Committee manages the search process for new Directors, recommends to the Board the appointment of new Directors and considers succession plans for the Board and other senior roles.
Committee members The Committee comprises Simon Miller Chairman, Angela Knight, David Nicol, Caroline Taylor and Paul Wilson.
Attendance at meetings and changes to composition in the year are set out on page 39.
Committee activities During the year, the Nomination Committee met twice although some of its work relating to the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors was conducted as part of full Board meetings.
The Committee used external search consultants, Egon Zehnder, to identify suitable candidates for the appointments of two new Non-Executive Directors, Paul Wilson and Ian Dewar, based on a role specification which was prepared taking into account the general balance of skills and experience of the Board and the need to refresh the Chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Egon Zehnder does not have any other connection with the Company.
In considering the most appropriate method of identifying a thirdNon-Executive candidate, Caroline Taylor, the Committee felt that having just completed an extensive search for two other Non-Executive Directors that it would be more appropriate to identify a suitable candidate through the Groups own extensive contact base.
Accordingly Paul Wilson, Ian Dewar and Caroline Taylor were identified, interviewed, referenced and appointed.
50 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 The Board believes that appointments should be based on merit, compared against objective criteria, with the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board has the right skills, knowledge and experience that enable it to discharge its responsibilities properly.
Consideration of the benefits of diversity on the Board in all its aspects, including gender, is an important part of this process.
The Board has reviewed its policy on gender diversity during the year and has committed that it will aim to have at least 25% of women members by September 2015.
Women currently represent 20% of the Board, compared to 12.5% at 29 September 2013, and 20% of the Executive Committee, compared to 14% at 29 September 2013.
Further information on diversity within the Group can be found on page 66.
The Committee reviewed the Board and senior management succession plan as well as the framework used for succession planning more widely within the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board Committees and recommended change to the Board for approval, taking into account the need to refresh Committee membership and to utilise the experience of the newly appointed Non-Executive Directors.
Simon Miller Chairman of the Nomination Committee 2 December 2014 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
