72 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Dear shareholder discussed on page 73 Compliance with the Code but the Board was mindful that the views of both Apollo and CVC needed to be taken into consideration when drawing up the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the first Companys own governance plans that were discussed in Corporate Governance Report of the Company.
It has been a detail by the Board at the time of the IPO.
significant year for the Company coming to the market via its IPO in April 2014.
The report covers the period from 2 April Over time we expect the Company to undergo a change in 2014 when the Company was admitted to the official list, its ownership structure and, as the position evolves, the Board through to the end of the financial year.
will keep its governance codes under review with the intention of becoming fully compliant with the Code.
As a Board we are committed to high standards of corporate governance and to maintaining a strong framework for Details of the activities of the Board and its committees are set the control and management of the business.
The Groups out on page 73. insurance business is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Dr Richard Ward Accordingly, many of the corporate governance structures Chairman required of a public company were already well established within the Group at the time of the IPO.
24 February 2015 The Board takes seriously its commitment to corporate governance, as laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, but we are mindful that there are two major shareholders, Apollo and CVC, who own 39.7% and 33.6% of the Company respectively.
The Board has recognised that the Company is not fully compliant with all the provisions of the Code, as further GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 73 COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE or management that would affect their objectivity and all have proven to be independent in character and judgement.
The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the On an annual basis, each Board member receives for Code throughout the year.
completion a questionnaire to determine factors that may affect independence according to best practice statements Other than as set out in the following two paragraphs, from laid out in the Code.
The responses to the questionnaires admission the Company has complied with the requirements assist the Board in ascertaining whether a Director is of the Code, which sets out standards of good practice in independent in character and judgement and whether there relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, are any relationships or circumstances, which are likely to accountability and relations with shareholders.
affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
The Code recommends, in the case of a FTSE 350 company, The independent non-executive Directors bring a wide range that at least half of the board of directors excluding the of experience and expertise both in the insurance and financial chairman should comprise Independent non-executive services industries.
The independent non-executive Directors directors, being individuals determined by the board to are encouraged to challenge management and help develop be independent in character and judgement and free from proposals on strategy.
relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, their objectivity.
From admission, the Ipe Jacob also serves as an independent non-executive Company did not comply with this aspect of the Code, director on the board of Brit Syndicates Limited and as because out of its nine Directors being the Board excluding chairman of the BIG and UK audit committees.
Mr Jacob is the Chairman, only four non-executive Directors are also chairman of the BIG Risk Oversight Committee and a deemed by the Board to be independent.
The Board expects member of the UK Risk Oversight Committee.
this position to change over time either by virtue of new appointments or if the major shareholders sell down their Dr Richard Ward, non-executive Chairman, was independent interests below the prevailing thresholds.
on his appointment as a Director of the Company in March 2014 and he remains non-executive.
The PLC Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees were not fully compliant with the Code due to the number The Chairman is also the non-executive chairman of BSL.
of shareholder representative non-executive Directors who The contributions of both the Chairman and Ipe Jacob at are members of these committees.
The Board have noted these regulated insurance companies are of significant benefit that both Apollo and CVC, as joint shareholders of the to the Group.
Company prior to its IPO, were responsible in helping the Companys restructuring and return to sustained profitability The Board considers that Jonathan Feuer, Sachin Khajuria, that ultimately led to the Companys successful return to the Gernot Lohr and Kamil Salame are not independent London Stock Exchange in April 2014.
The Board believes that non-executive Directors as a consequence of their being the shareholder representative Directors continue to add value representative Directors of the major shareholders.
to the Company and the deliberations of the Board and that, while they continue as shareholders of the Company, The Chairman they should be represented on the Board and its committees.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Chairman is responsible for setting the agenda for Board deliberations, with the help of the executive Directors and Introduction the Company Secretary, to be primarily focused on strategy, The Board of Directors currently comprises ten Directors: performance, value creation and accountability, and ensure that a non-executive Chairman, one executive Director, four issues relevant to these areas are reserved for Board decision.
independent nonexecutive Directors and four shareholder representative Directors.
All of the Directors were appointed The Chief Executive Officer to the Board prior to the Companys IPO and had all previously The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing been board members of one of the Groups intermediate and executing the strategy of the Group and for generally holding companies, Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. a company running the Groups business.
The Chief Executive Officer also incorporated in the Netherlands.
The Board meet on a regular chairs the Executive Management Committee.
basis and meetings include a private session with only the Chairman and the non-executive Directors present.
Senior independent non-executive Director The Board has appointed Ipe Jacob as the senior independent The biography of each Director is set out on pages 70 and 71. non-executive Director of the Company.
The role of the senior independent non-executive Director is to provide a conduit Independence of Directors through which shareholders can express concerns where The Board considers that Ipe Jacob, Hans-Peter Gerhardt, contact through normal channels of the Chairman and of Maarten Hulshoff and Willem Stevens are independent nonthe Chief Executive Officer may not have been appropriate executive Directors of the Company, within the meaning of the or failed to resolve any of those concerns.
None of the independent non-executive Directors has independent Director was also responsible for carrying out the any executive or other role or relationship with the Company evaluation of the role of the Chairman during the year.
74 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Non-executive Directors direction of the Chairman.
The Company Secretary is The non-executive Directors are encouraged to challenge responsible for: management, provide insight and help develop proposals Ensuring good information flows within the Board, on strategy.
its Committees and between senior management and non-executive Directors: Major shareholders rights of appointment to the Board and Facilitating the induction programme for non-executive committees Directors of the Company and assisting with professional development: Apollo Advising the Board or a committee of the Board on For as long as AP Achilles Holdings EH-1, LLC the principal corporate governance matters: and Apollo shareholder and AP Helios Co-Invest L. P. and AP Selene Ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Co-Invest L. P. the latter two being the Apollo syndication vehicles hold in aggregate more than10% of the Companys Independent advice aggregate voting rights, the principal Apollo shareholder shall After consulting with the Chairman, acting individually or have the right to nominate two persons as Directors the Apollo jointly and at the Companys expense, all Directors are representative Directors to the Board.
Should the aggregate authorised to obtain external legal or professional advice shareholding of the principal shareholder and the Apollo on any matter, where they judge such advice necessary to syndication vehicles fall below 10% but be greater than 5%, discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
then the principal Apollo shareholder shall have the right to nominate one person to the Board as an Apollo representative Directors reappointment Director.
Should the aggregate shareholding of the principal In accordance with Code provision B7.2.
all executive and nonApollo shareholder and the Apollo syndication vehicles fall executive Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointbelow 5% the principal Apollo shareholder will no longer have ment at the 2015 annual general meeting of the Company.
the right to nominate an Apollo representative Director to the Board.
The principal Apollo shareholder and the Apollo Information provided to the Directors syndication vehicles currently hold in aggregate, 39.7% of the Each Director is provided with tailored packs for all Board aggregate voting rights in the Company.
or committee meetings which they are required to attend.
Board packs are delivered at least one week prior to each The principal Apollo shareholder has nominated Gernot meeting.
The Company has adopted an electronic system Lohr and Sachin Khajuria to serve on the Board as the Apollo whereby Directors packs are accessible and available via a representative Directors.
Directors regularly receive information between Board meetings, including the monthly management Furthermore, for as long as the principal Apollo shareholder has information pack.
Where a Director was unable to attend the right to nominate at least one Director to the Board, it shall a meeting, they were provided with all the papers and have the right to nominate one Apollo representative Director information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss to be a member of all standing committees of the Company.
issues arising directly with the Chairman.
CVC Conflicts of interest For as long as CVC holds directly or indirectly more than 10% Under the Companies Act 2006, all Directors must seek of the Companys aggregate voting rights, the CVC European authorisation before taking up any position with another Equity V Funds shall have the right to nominate two persons company that conflicts or may possibly conflict with the as Directors the CVC representative Directors to the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association Should CVCs shareholding fall below 10% but be greater than contain provisions that allow the Directors to authorise 5%, then the CVC European Equity V Funds shall have the right situations of potential conflicts of interest, so that a Director is to nominate one person as a Director to the Board.
Should not in breach of his duty under company law.
The Directors are CVCs shareholding fall below 5% they will no longer have the required to notify the Company of any conflicts so that they right to nominate Directors to the Board.
CVC currently holds can be considered and if appropriate authorised by the Board.
33.6% of the aggregate voting rights in the Company.
The Board carries out an annual review of conflicts of interest and each authorisation is set out in the conflicts register.
The CVC European Equity V Funds have nominated Jonathan Feuer and Kamil Salame to serve on the Board as the CVC During the year the Chairman was appointed as the executive representative Directors.
chairman of Cunningham Lindsey Group, an insurance services provider.
Prior to his appointment, the Board concluded that he Furthermore, for as long as the CVC European Equity V Funds would remain able to devote sufficient time and commitment to have the right to nominate at least one Director to the Board, his role with the Company, whilst serving as executive chairman they shall have the right to nominate one CVC representative of Cunningham Lindsey Group and that no conflict arose from Director to be a member of all standing committees of the this position.
The Board still considers that to be the case.
Directors and officers insurance and indemnity Company Secretary The Company maintains a Directors and Officers liability All the Directors have access to the services of the Company insurance policy which meets defence costs on behalf of a Secretary.
The appointment and the removal of the Company Director and Officer, when they are found not to have acted Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole under the fraudulently.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 75 The Companys Articles of Association allow the Company to the following: indemnify the Directors to the extent applicable under law and Responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company Deeds of Indemnity have been entered into with all members and setting the Companys values and standards: of the Board.
Approval of the Groups strategic aims and objectives: Approvals of the annual operating and capital expenditure Board evaluation and induction budgets and any material changes to them: Oversight of the Groups operations ensuring: competent During the year an evaluation was carried out of the Board, its and prudent management: sound planning: maintenance of committees and the individual Directors.
You can find details sound management and internal control systems: adequate about this in the Nomination Committee Report on page 78. accounting and other records: and compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations: THE BOARD LEADERSHIP Review of performance in the light of the Groups strategic priorities, business plans and budgets and ensuring that The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group any necessary corrective action is taken: and has overall authority for the management and conduct Approval of the half-yearly report, interim management stateof the business and the Groups strategy and development.
ments and any preliminary announcement of the final results: Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, including the The Board is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance corporate governance statement and Directors remuneraof a sound system of internal control and risk management tion report: including financial, operational and compliance controls, and Approval of the dividend policy: and for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place and Declaration of the interim special dividend and recommenfor the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and dation of the final dividend.
or management structure of the Group.
The Board periodically received reports and recommendations 2014 activities from its committees in relation to certain of the matters listed above.
In addition, the Board received reports and Area Comment recommendations from time to time on any matter which it 2014 strategic The Board reviewed the performance of the considers significant to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The and operational Company against its strategy and reviewed in Board received regular updates from the Chief Executive Officer, objectives detail the strategic direction of the business.
the CEO of Brit Global Specialty, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and Director of Acquisition of The Board discussed and approved the QBE aviation acquisition of the Lloyds aviation team from Strategy, the Chief Investment Officer, the Chief Actuary and business QBE.
the Head of Claims on their respective areas of the business.
Group restructure The Board approved a restructure of the During the year the Board also received training in relation to Groups entities and funding.
the Companys strategy for investment management.
The Commutation of The Board reviewed and agreed the Directors are also encouraged to attend director training courses the loss portfolio commutation to RiverStone Insurance Limited that they believe are relevant to their personal development reinsurance of the loss portfolio reinsurance contract that and the cost of these courses is borne by the Company.
with RiverStone had been concluded between BIG and Brit Insurance Limited Insurance Limited following the sale of Brit The Board is scheduled to meet eight times a year.
One of Insurance Limited to RiverStone Insurance Limited in 2012. these meetings was set aside for the Board to attend an off-site day where the Board reviewed in detail the current Remuneration A presentation was made to the Board on the performance of the business and refreshed its view of the Companys formal remuneration policy for strategic direction of the business.
approval by the Companys shareholders.
The Board has met eight times since the IPO.
Attendance at The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and committee meetings during the year is set out in Board.
The principal matters reserved for the Board include the following table.
Director Meetings attended Comment Richard Ward eight out of eight Mark Cloutier eight out of eight Jonathan Feuer eight out of eight Hans-Peter Gerhardt eight out of eight Maarten Hulshoff eight out of eight Ipe Jacob eight out of eight Sachin Khajuria eight out of eight Gernot Lohr six out of eight Mr Lohr missed two meetings.
One conflicted with another board meeting and one coincided with an investor meeting day at Apollo.
Kamil Salame eight out of eight Willem Stevens eight out of eight 76 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY published on our website.
The investor relations section of www.
com ir also holds information with regards The Company is committed to providing shareholders with a to our Annual and Interim Reports, regulatory news and share fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys price information.
position and prospects both throughout this report and the Financial Statements that are issued by the Company during the The Board is regularly updated on shareholder feedback and in year.
The PLC Audit Committee has oversight for the corporate particular any specific comments from institutional shareholders.
reporting of the Company and the Companys relationship The senior independent non-executive Director and other with its auditors.
The PLC Risk Oversight Committee has non-executive Directors are available for meetings with major responsibilities for overseeing the key risks affecting the shareholders and have participated in these meetings in the Company.
The PLC Audit Committee Report and the PLC Risk last financial year.
Oversight Committee Report can be found on pages 80 and 85.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys principal risks and examples of how we mitigate these risks can be found on pages 60 to 65.
The Company intends to use the annual general meeting as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders and also as a REMUNERATION forum to ask questions of the Board.
The Remuneration Committees Report on Directors remuneration It is intended that all resolutions at the annual general meeting and the remuneration policy can be found on pages 92 to 108. will be decided on a poll, with the results announced on the Companys website and to the London Stock Exchange as soon RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS as practicable.
Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD are available to all shareholders on the Companys website.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions within The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board the Companies Act 2006, allowing the website to be used as committees, notably the PLC Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, the primary source of communication with all shareholders, PLC Risk Oversight, PLC Investment and PLC Underwriting where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
Each committees terms of reference can be found shareholder information on page 219 contains further details on the Companys website.
on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also The minutes of committee meetings are made available to the included on the Companys corporate website.
Board of Directors on a timely basis.
At each Board meeting the Chairman of each committee provides the Board with a brief SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT update of the deliberations of the committee s they chair.
The Company believes in maintaining an open and honest The Executive Management Committee EMC is chaired by dialogue with its shareholders.
Prior to the Companys IPO, the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for day to day roadshows were held in a number of cities and countries.
management of all aspects of the Companys business.
The EMC Further roadshows have been held subsequent to the IPO and has a number of sub-committees e. g. Reserving Committee after the announcement of the Companys interim results.
and Credit Committee which have responsibility for oversight of day to day activities in various key areas of the Companys The executive management of the Company continued to business as discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report.
maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders throughout the year via meetings with analysts and investors as well The governance chart shows the governance structure that is as regular analyst presentations and webcasts.
These are currently in place for the Company.
GOVERNANCE WITHIN BRIT Brit PLC PLC Risk PLC PLC Nomination PLC Audit Remuneration Investment Underwriting Oversight Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Management Committee GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 77 In addition, to the Companys governance structure, the Group RISK MANAGEMENT also has structures in place for its UK and Gibraltar based regulated entities.
Managed by the Chief Risk Officer and Director of Strategy, our risk management function oversees the management UK of risk, ensuring each operating entity manages its risk in UK underwriting and investment operations are subject accordance with Group policies and allocated risk tolerances to governance provided by the board of Brit Syndicates and appetites.
The PLC Risk Oversight Committee reviews Limited, the managing agent for Lloyds Syndicate 2987, reports from the risk management function and considers and a number of committees.
The BSL board consists of ten appropriate executive actions.
Additionally, each regulated directors, three of whom are non-executive, and is chaired subsidiarys board is responsible for overseeing its risk, by the Chairman of the Company.
The UK also operates an supported by its own risk oversight committee.
Audit Committee, Risk Oversight Committee, Underwriting Committee and Investment Committee.
RISK ASSESSMENT Gibraltar The Groups risk assessment process includes using an Brit Insurance Gibraltar PCC Limited BIG is a captive enterprise risk management ERM system.
The ERM system insurance company based in Gibraltar and regulated reports on every significant identified risk to achieving by the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission FSC.
Group objectives, the nature and effectiveness of controls, Its only activities are providing reinsurance to Syndicate and other management processes to manage these risks.
2987 and Brit UW Limited, and the management of its The Company sets risk tolerances for key risk categories, for own investment portfolios.
In addition to its own board, example, catastrophe, reserving, investment and operational it operates three board committees: the BIG Audit risk.
The risk management framework encompasses selfCommittee, the BIG Risk Oversight Committee and the assessment of controls by risk owners throughout the BIG Investment Committee.
business, which go through various levels of review, at which their assertions are independently challenged.
The internal The committees within the UK and Gibraltar report to their audit function regularly reviews the risks identified by risk PLC counterparties on a regular basis.
owners and the effectiveness of their controls and operation.
BOARD INTERNAL CONTROL STATEMENT The Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA processes cover the Groups risk and solvency performance.
The The Board recognises its responsibility for the Groups risk Group operates an Internal Model that captures the key management and internal control systems.
It has complied economic and risk factors that could impact the Groups with principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous performance.
The ORSA process runs quarterly and is used process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal to escalate significant risks, their potential impact on the risks facing the Group.
This also includes risks arising from Groups financial position, any variations from the agreed social, environmental and ethical matters, in accordance with risk appetites, and the actions to manage those risks.
Group Executive Management Committee and the PLC Risk Oversight Committee review the output from the ORSA Directors are aware that any internal control system is processes.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They understand that the INTERNAL AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE systems can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or financial loss.
In The Groups internal audit and compliance departments the Strategic Report, the principal risks to which the business perform our internal audits and compliance monitoring is exposed, are set out on pages 60 to 65 and further respectively.
Both departments have a reporting line to the information is provided on how the Company has maintained PLC Audit Committee.
Internal audit also reports to the a sound system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders Chief Executive Officer, while the compliance department investment and the Companys assets.
reports to the Group Director of Legal and Compliance.
The Group has established risk-based audit and compliance The PLC Risk Oversight Committee regularly reviews the programmes for reviewing and evaluating the internal effectiveness of the Groups risk management system on the controls and compliance procedures used to manage risk.
The PLC Audit Committee regularly reviews the Groups financial reports, financial reporting process, regulatory and compliance matters.
If significant control failings or weaknesses are identified, they are reported by management, via risk management, the compliance function or internal audit to the relevant committee.
The relevant committee also receives regular reports on remediation work and discussions with other interested parties, such as regulators.
