80 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Dear Shareholder it faces, and the environment in which it operates.
To help achieve this, in addition to the formal private meetings with our external auditors, the Head of Internal Audit and Brits Following Brit PLCs IPO in April 2014, I was delighted to executives, I also meet with each of them informally on a be appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
To facilitate full and open discussion, these been associated with the Brit Group since 2012, both as a informal meetings take place away from Brits offices and non-executive director of Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. and without the rigidity of a formal agenda.
as chairman of its audit committee.
As part of my ongoing responsibilities, I also chair the audit committees of Brits two I also believe that the culture of an organisation is important main sub-groups, focusing on the Groups UK and Gibraltar and that the right culture helps embed the principles of based regulated entities.
The Committee members and I have spent time understanding and assessing The Committees focus in 2014 has been on sound financial the culture of the organisation and we believe that these reporting, underpinned by a strong control environment.
To principles are embedded in the way Brit operates, thereby support this focus we: helping to maintain an effective control environment.
Considered and provided challenge around significant In the report below, you can read more about the Committee, financial reporting issues: our work in 2014 and our areas of focus for 2015.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups current internal control regimes: During the year we have also assessed the effectiveness of our Reviewed the Companys interim management statements, Committee.
I am pleased to report that this evaluation process interim report, and Annual Report and recommended their concluded that the Committee was operating effectively.
More approval to the Board: details can be found in 78.
Monitored progress against the internal audit plan for 2014: Reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2015: Ipe Jacob FCA and 24 February 2015 Conducted internal and external audit effectiveness reviews.
In addition to these activities, the Committee recommend the appointment of auditors and the approval of their audit fees.
We also took the decision to embark on an audit tender process during 2015.
As part of our review of the Annual Report and Accounts we have, at the request of the Board, considered whether the document as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Following our review, we have concluded that the Annual Report and Accounts does meet these criteria and we have provided positive assurance to the Board in this regard.
I believe an ongoing dialogue with all key parties is important to help me and the Committee maintain an awareness and understanding of the organisation, the risks and challenges GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 81 Membership and attendance Member Meetings attended Comment Ipe Jacob Chairman six out of six Maarten Hulshoff five out of six Mr Hulshoff was away for one meeting called at short notice.
Sachin Khajuria six out of six Kamil Salame six out of six The Role of the Committee Whistleblowing The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Review the adequacy, security and appropriateness of The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms the Companys arrangements for its employees and of reference which are available for shareholders on the contractors to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible Companys website.
They include: wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
Financial reporting Governance Monitor the integrity of the Companys Financial Statements The Committee meets at least quarterly at appropriate and any other formal announcements relating to the intervals in the financial reporting and audit cycle and at Companys financial performance.
such other times as required.
Monitor the Companys financial reporting process The Committee receives regular reports on the activities and consider significant financial reporting issues and and findings of the audit committees of Brits two main subjudgements, the going concern assumption, compliance groups, focusing on the Groups UK and Gibraltar based with legal, regulatory and statutory requirements, the regulated entities.
appropriateness of accounting policies selected and the Ernst & Young LLP EY, the Companys external auditor, consistency with which they are applied.
is invited to every meeting.
At least once a year, and at any Review the content of the annual report and provide advice other time the Committee sees fit, the Committee meets to the Board on whether the annual report, taken as a with the external auditor without executive Directors or whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides other management present.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Group Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and Head of Compliance usually attend meetings and other nonExternal audit members such as the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, including Executive Officer and other Directors attend all or part approving its terms of engagement.
of any meeting as and when appropriate and necessary.
Consider and make recommendations to the Board At least twice a year the Committee will meet the Head regarding the appointment and remuneration of the of Internal Audit without executive Directors or other external auditor.
Review annually the effectiveness of the external audit Outside the formal meeting programme, the Chairman process.
maintains a dialogue with key individuals involved in the Companys governance, including the Chairman of the Internal audit Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Monitor and review the effectiveness of the activities of Officer, the external audit lead partner and the Head of internal audit and approve or terminate the appointment of Internal Audit.
the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee may, at any time, request the Head Review and agree the annual internal audit work plan with of Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer or the Head of the Head of Internal Audit and ensure the function has the Compliance to carry out such independent reviews it necessary resources.
It may also instruct independent external advisers to undertake any work required to fulfil Internal control its responsibilities, at the Companys expense.
Review the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
2014 focus Compliance Review regular reports from the Compliance Department Financial reporting and keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of The Committees main financial reporting focus was on the the Companys compliance function.
integrity of the Companys Annual Report, its interim report and its interim management statements.
The Committee receives a twice-yearly Key Accounting Judgements report from the Group Financial Controller setting out the significant assumptions, judgements and estimates supporting the Companys reported figures.
82 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT These areas of judgement are discussed both with management and the external auditor and are challenged where appropriate.
The Committee also considers whether such key judgements are satisfactorily disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, the Committee receives a twice-yearly report from the external auditor which presents its key audit findings.
The Committee pays particular attention to the issues raised in these reports, discusses and challenges them to ensure the assumptions, judgements and estimates used are appropriate and justified.
It also ensures that appropriate disclosure is made.
The significant issues considered for 2014 were: Risk Details Income Please see page 133 accounting policy, page 142 critical accounting estimates and page 178 disclosures.
estimation The Group applies certain assumptions and estimation techniques in the earnings patterns of premiums and the setting of premium estimates.
These assumptions are particularly relevant for business written through delegated authorities.
There is a risk that the estimate and actual premiums realised are materially different.
The Group also assesses whether there are adequate levels of risk transfer in the insurance contracts it writes.
The Committee has: Reviewed the controls operated in this area and the income recognition judgements made: and Reviewed the findings arising from the work performed by the external auditors.
Following these reviews, the Committee has concluded that the recognition of premiums in the Financial Statements is appropriate.
Reserving Please see page 134 accounting policy, page 141 critical accounting estimates and page 178 disclosures.
risk The Group has exposure to liabilities arising from risks written which can be difficult to estimate due to the level of subjectivity and uncertainty involved.
As a result, there is a risk that the ultimate outcome could be materially different from the claims reserves carried.
Brits reserving process is robust and managed by the Chief Actuary, under the oversight of the Executive Management Committee and the boards of the two regulated entities of the Group.
In considering whether the level of reserves resulting from this process is appropriate, the Committee has: Considered the Chief Actuarys reserving report: Reviewed and challenged key reserving judgements: Reviewed the findings of the work performed by the external auditors, including their testing of the key controls, their evaluation of managements methodology, key assumptions and major sensitivities and the outcome of their re-projection of the reserves: and Considered the appropriateness of the explicit risk margin.
As a result of this work, the Committee is satisfied that the level of reserves determined by management is appropriate.
The Committee has also reviewed related disclosures as set out in Note 21 of the Financial Statements and has concluded that they are also appropriate.
Investment Please see page 135 accounting policy, page 142 critical accounting estimates and page 186 disclosures.
valuation Brit has realigned its investment strategy and has transitioned to a broader mix of asset classes.
This has resulted in the Group increasing its holdings in instruments such as structured products, loan portfolios and investment funds.
Quoted prices may not always be available for these instruments therefore alternative valuation techniques may need to be applied.
The Committee has: Evaluated and challenged the process used by management in valuing these investments: and Reviewed the findings of the work performed by the external auditors, including their testing of the key controls around managements valuation process and controls over information provided by investment managers.
As a result of this work, the Committee is satisfied that the valuation of the Groups investments as determined by management is appropriate.
The Committee has also reviewed the related disclosures in the Annual Report and has concluded that they are also appropriate.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 83 Annual Report and Accounts During the period, the Committee: The Committee has also devoted significant time to reviewing the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, the first since the Reviewed, debated and approved the internal audit charter, Company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In late 2014 a new risk-based internal audit planning methodology and and early 2015 additional Audit Committee meetings were revisions to the internal audit methodology: convened to review a number of working drafts and to allow Monitored progress against the 2014 internal audit plan its challenge and feedback to be considered at appropriate and discussed and approved amendments to the plan: stages of the reports development.
The Committee also Reviewed and discussed all internal audit reports and received briefings on the relevant statutory requirements monitored progress of addressing issues arising from those and current best practice guidelines, and solicited the reports: views of the external auditor.
Following this process, the Reviewed, discussed, challenged and approved the 2015 Committee concluded that the Annual Report and Accounts internal audit plan: and as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Reviewed the effectiveness of internal audit and concluded the information necessary for shareholders to assess the that it was operating effectively.
In addition to this internal Companys performance, business model and strategy.
performance evaluation, an external assessment of internal audit will be conducted at least once every five years Internal control and compliance by a qualified independent assessor from outside of the The Committee believes an effective control environment is organisation.
important to help manage the Groups risk, particularly with respect to misstatement or loss, and to support true and fair External audit financial reporting.
Assessing the effectiveness of the audit The Committee is committed to ensuring the external audit The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups process is effective and independent and uses an audit financial controls.
It receives and debates a quarterly report quality framework assessment to help achieve this.
The on the performance of financial controls and an annual Committee reviews the effectiveness of the external audit report on their effectiveness.
It also discusses any control process throughout the year and has also undertaken a formal issues highlighted in internal audit reports and in any reports assessment.
This assessment involved: presented by the external auditor, and then monitors the remedying of any such issues.
Following its review, the Canvassing and analysing the views of the Committee Committee has concluded that the Group maintains a and senior management by way of a comprehensive comprehensive and effective financial control framework which questionnaire: supports approval of the 2014 Financial Statements.
Reviewing the quality and scope of the audit planning document and subsequent planning updates: The Committee reviews and monitors the work of compliance.
Reviewed reports and other documents presented by the A written report from the Head of Compliance is received auditor to the Committee: quarterly, which the Committee reviews, discusses and Monitoring the auditors independence: and challenges as appropriate.
This report includes an update on Discussing with EY the report published by the FRC on its all key compliance risks.
It also includes an update on relevant 2013 14 inspection of Ernst & Young LLP.
issues arising in each of the Groups regulatory jurisdictions including the UK, the US and Gibraltar.
The observations and findings of the assessment were presented to and discussed by the Committee who concluded During the period, in addition to reviewing the Head of that the external audit process was effective.
Compliances report, the Committee: Auditor appointment Reviewed and challenged the Groups sanctions monitoring The current EY group engagement partner is signing the audit procedures: and report of Brit PLC for the first time for the 2014 year end.
Examined and approved the Group financial crime policy: However, as he has previously held partner responsibilities and in respect of a sub-section of the Group, consistent with the Reviewed and agreed the Groups whistleblowing process.
provisions in Ethical Standard 3 he will rotate off the account when the 2014 audit process is complete.
This will help Internal Audit maintain auditor independence.
A new engagement partner The Committee reviews and monitors the work of internal has been proposed by EY and has been approved by the audit.
A written report from the Head of Internal Audit is Audit Committee.
Monitoring the transition to the new partner discussed at each meeting.
This report includes an update on is a key objective for 2015 and, to help facilitate a smooth the current audit plan, the findings and actions arising from transition, the new proposed partner has attended Audit completed reports, an update on the completion of actions Committee meetings during 2014 at the chairmans invitation.
and an update on all ongoing audits.
The Committee also holds regular private sessions with the Head of Internal Audit.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP EY as Group auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2015 annual general meeting.
84 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT EY was appointed Brit PLCs external auditor on 3 March 2014.
During the year, the auditors undertook the following We are mindful and supportive of the new requirements on significant non-audit work: auditor appointment from the EU which requires Brit PLC to rotate its auditor every ten years.
However, as EY have Area m Comment performed the audit of Brit PLCs predecessor companies since Audit related assurance 0.3 2005, the Audit Committee intends to commence a qualifying services audit tender process in 2015 for the appointment of the Group auditor for the 2016 year.
Taxation compliance 0.1 Completion of the services Groups US tax returns.
Non-audit services Taxation advisory 0.9 Incurred in connection The Audit Committee monitors the use of the external services with the Companys IPO auditors for non-audit services to ensure compliance with our in April 2014. policy, which details the circumstances in which the auditors Corporate finance 2.0 Incurred in connection may be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
services excluding with the Companys IPO Non-audit services permitted in the policy include transaction amounts included in April 2014. due diligence, tax advice, actuarial review, accountancy in taxation advisory training and accounting advice.
Services prohibited in services the policy include preparing statutory accounts, selecting accounting policies, designing and implementing internal Other non-audit services 0.1 controls, process and financial information systems, and valuation services.
The fees paid to our auditors are set out in Note 13 to the The authorisation limits for non-audit services allowed by accounts.
Non-audit fees amounted to 3.4m, of which the policy are: 2.9m related to our IPO in April 2014.
The Committee approved these IPO related transaction services in advance after considering the impact of this work on the auditors Chief Financial 100,000 independence, its level of expertise and understanding of the Officer Group, and its ability to provide these services on a timely and Audit Committee 100,000 to 250,000 cost effective basis.
Chairman Audit Committee 250,000 Once non-audit services in any one year exceed 500,000, all further non-audit services need to be approved by the Audit Committee.
This policy aims to ensure that the independence of the external auditors is maintained and that we comply with all relevant legislation relating to non-audit services.
