78 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Dear shareholder own evaluation, this took place at the end of a Board meeting at which I was not present and was led by Ipe Jacob as senior independent non-executive Director.
The Nominations Committee was formed following the IPO of the Company in April 2014 and I am delighted to present this During the evaluation, consideration was given to the extent report to you.
to which there may be an overlap in review and challenge of performance of the parent Company Board and the board of As noted earlier in this section the Committee is aware that BSL, and it was recommended that there should be a review the Company does not currently comply with the Code of the reports presented to each Board and their various provision B.
1.2 for half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to committees to ensure that they were clear, concise, consistent comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to and specifically relevant to the bodies terms of reference.
The Board currently comprises ten Directors: myself as Chairman: one executive Director: four independent The Board considered that it and the Board committees non-executive Directors: and four non-executive shareholder were effective and had a sufficient balance of skills and representative Directors.
experience to enable them to discharge their responsibilities appropriately.
It also concluded that there was an appropriate The Committee has evaluated the balance of skills, level of challenge and discussion to enable the Board and its experience, independence and knowledge of the current committees to work effectively as a unit.
The Committee considers that the Company has a diverse board, with a mix of broad business As a Committee we will continue to focus on the structure of and geographical experience, but is aware of the need the Board and focus on executive succession planning in 2015. to develop its gender diversity.
With this in mind we have identified and commenced a recruitment exercise to appoint two non-executive Directors to the Board, one of whom, or Dr Richard Ward preferably both should be female.
Chairman In order to assist the Committee with its search, the 24 February 2015 Committee contacted a number of external search consultants who were invited to provide a specification and brief for the project under consideration.
These proposals were then considered by the Committee and The Miles Partnership was appointed to assist the Company in its search for independent non-executive directors to be appointed to the Board.
The Miles Partnership have no other relationship with the Company.
Although the Company is only in its infancy as a public listed entity, a Board evaluation was conducted in the year.
All of the Directors of the Company were sent a questionnaire to complete and then one to one meetings were held between myself and each Director of the Company.
In respect of my GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 79 Membership and attendance The role of the Committee The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Member Meetings attended The Committees responsibilities are set out in the main terms of reference which are available for shareholders on the Richard Ward Chairman three out of three Companys website.
Its main duties include: Jonathan Feuer three out of three Regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, independence, experience Gernot Lohr three out of three and diversity required of the Board compared with its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: The Chief Executive Officer attends every meeting of the Give full consideration to succession planning for Directors Nomination Committee and other members of the executive and other senior executives in the course of the work of the team are invited to provide technical input when required.
Nomination Committee, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and expertise that will, therefore, be needed on the Board in the future: Any matters relating to the continuation in office of any Director at any time including the suspension or termination of service of an executive Director as an employee of the Company subject to the provisions of the law and their service contract: The appointment of any Director to executive or other office: and Ensuring that the evaluation of the Board is externally facilitated at least every three years and reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board.
2014 activities Area Comment Board induction The Committee reviewed the induction programme developed for non-executive directors that are appointed to the Board.
The induction programme sets out detailed information that a non-executive Director should receive on his her appointment to the Company and identifies those senior executives within the Company with whom the Director should meet, to gain a better understanding of the business and its operations.
Board recruitment The Committee considered the balance of skills on the Board, the Companys commitment to comply with the Code and recognised the need to appoint two Independent non-executive Directors to the Board.
The Committee identified areas where the Board may be lacking in particular skill sets and agreed a specification for each of the non-executive Directors that the Board was looking to recruit.
The Miles Partnership were selected to support the Committee in its search.
Diversity The Committee noted that the members of the Board have a mix of broad business and geographical experience and the skills and knowledge that they bring to the deliberations of the Board make for a diverse board.
Board evaluation The Committee concluded that as the Company had only recently undergone an IPO that an internal review should be conducted in 2014 and would give consideration to an external review in 2015.
The results of the 2014 evaluation concluded that the Board was performing well and discussions at Board meetings were positive.
Points for future consideration have been discussed earlier in the report.
