GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 85 RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Dear Shareholder Development and oversight of the internal model process: The Internal Model is used throughout the Group as part of the management capital setting, risk monitoring, The Brit PLC Risk Oversight Committee was formally strategic analysis and assessing the assumptions used in established as a result of the Companys listing in April 2014. the business plan.
Brit now uses an internal model in both While the PLC committee is newly established, a separate Risk the Syndicate and Gibraltar to set its entity management Committee has been in place at Brit since 2012 and has played capital.
The Committee takes an active part in challenging a key part of the risk governance at Brit.
The risk oversight the model parameters through the validation process and committee meets at least four times a year and reports directly receives a quarterly report summarising any model uses to the PLC Board.
Operating and improving the risk management I have been a member of the Brit Group risk committees since framework: The Committee reviews the risk management 2012, serving as a member or chairman on the Syndicate, framework regularly.
The risk appetite framework was Gibraltar and Group Risk Oversight Committees.
The risk improved in 2014 for insurance and credit risk which committees benefit from experienced non-executive directors included the introduction of additional earnings metrics and with a broad base of knowledge and experience at both a modification of the metrics already in place.
The Group has Group and a regulated entity level.
The Chief Risk Officer also continued to improve the processes supporting the attends the committee and other relevant experts attend to risk management framework such as the management of provide technical input as required.
the operational risk around the investment and catastrophe modelling capabilities.
We believe we are now well positioned Overview and have fully embedded the principles and practices of risk Brits risk governance is well embedded in the business, with management in the business.
The processes are now business established committees and a strong Risk Management as usual as the Syndicate has been running its ORSA and SCR Framework.
The Chief Risk Officer provides an independent processes under the risk management framework since 2012. quarterly report to the Risk Oversight Committee, while other members of the management and risk team regularly present Challenging the management team across all areas of on topical issues and when requested by the committee.
The the business: A major role of the Committee is to monitor Chief Risk Officers report sets out the risk profile of the Group and challenge the executive managements approach to and include a risk dashboard showing exposure compared to managing the current and emerging risk profile of the Board-approved tolerance.
The Committee has used Brits business.
The Committee has dedicated time to reviewing established processes to effectively discharge its duties balancing all areas of the business, with a particular focus in 2014 on ongoing risk management and compliance-related activity.
catastrophe risk, investment risk and the market outlook, including challenging the business plan.
As I mentioned in my introduction to the Audit Committee Monitoring the response to new and emerging risks Report, I believe an ongoing dialogue with all relevant parties within the business: The Committee also monitors the use is important to maintain an awareness and understanding of of the risk and solvency processes and in 2014 there was the organisation, the risks and challenges it faces, and the strong evidence that these are well embedded at Brit.
In environment in which it operates.
To help achieve this I hold particular, assessments were completed for a number of the both regular formal private meetings and regular informal initiatives undertaken during the year including: off-site meetings with each relevant party including the Chief Risk Officer, other members of the Brit executive and senior New business initiatives such as the acquisition of the management team and the Groups external auditor.
renewal rights of QBEs Lloyds aviation portfolio: Commutation of the reinsurance contract with RiverStone 2014 activities and focus Insurance Limited: The key areas of focus for the committee in 2014 have been: Optimisation of the outwards reinsurance programme: and Implementation of Solvency II: The Committee continued Assessment of options to manage foreign exchange and to oversee the implementation of Solvency II across the interest rate risks.
Group with the deadline of 1 January 2016 approaching.
The preparations for the Syndicate are now close to completion In the current regulatory and market environment I believe the in line with the Lloyds deadline for compliance with full tests Risk Oversight Committee has an increasingly important role and standards.
Implementation in Gibraltar is well advanced to play in maintaining discipline and focus on the principal and and on track to meet the full Solvency II requirements in emerging risks facing the business both in the short and longer 2015.
The Group overall has made a significant investment in term.
It is critical that Brit maintains its focus on compliance and the implementation of Solvency II over recent years and the Solvency II and these will continue to be priorities for the Committee.
benefits can now be clearly seen through a much improved The Group has invested significantly in its risk framework and risk management framework and transparent risk reporting processes over the past three years and under this Committees throughout the organisation.
The Syndicate is rated green guidance we believe is well prepared for the future.
by Lloyds for Solvency II preparedness.
Ipe Jacob FCA 24 February 2015 86 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITEE REPORT The Group Chief Risk Officer attends every meeting and other The role of the Committee relevant experts attend to provide technical input as required.
The Chairman reports quarterly to the Board on the activities For example, members of the risk team attend the meetings to of the Committee.
The Committees responsibilities are set out present the technical findings of the validation and ORSA.
The in its terms of reference which are available for shareholders Chief Financial Officer and Chief Actuary are regular attendees on the Companys website.
They include: and other members of executive management regularly present on topical issues.
Considering and approving, on behalf of the Board, the Risk Management Framework and its key risk management The committee met four times in the year and the Chairman policies: also meets with the Chief Risk Officer without executive Reviewing and recommending the risk tolerances to the management being present.
Board, covering underwriting risk, reserving risk, market risk, operational risk and credit risk: Oversight of the ORSA processes, including reviewing actual exposures against risk tolerances set out by the Board, stress and scenario testing and reverse stress testing.
Performing regular reviews of reports on risk and internal controls, including the evaluation of breaches in risk tolerance: Oversight of the key assumptions used in the Internal Model and ensuring that the model governance processes are operating effectively: Reviewing the effectiveness of the risk function and the scope and quality of managements ongoing monitoring of risks and the system of internal control: and Receiving regular reports on the activities and findings of the risk oversight committees of Brits two main sub-groups, focusing on the Groups UK and Gibraltar based regulated entities.
Membership and governance The attendance of the Committees Chairman and members was as follows: Member Meetings attended Ipe Jacob Chairman four out of four Maarten Hulshoff four out of four Sachin Khajuria four out of four Kamil Salame four out of four GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 87 2014 activities ongoing oversight and monitoring Area Comment Internal Model The regular Internal Model processes were completed including reviewing capital requirements, the validation of the Internal Model and regular updates on model use and change within the business.
ORSA processes Regular reports were received from the Chief Risk Officer covering all aspects of the business risk profile, monitoring exposure against tolerance and highlighting key topics in each risk category.
Risk appetite and The risk appetite framework was reviewed and updated to include new metrics on underwriting tolerance and reserving risk.
The credit risk metrics were updated to enable better external benchmarking.
Risk appetite and tolerance were monitored quarterly and breaches actively resolved.
Risk management The risk management framework was reviewed and evaluated as being effective.
The risk register framework was reviewed in detail.
2014 activities focus areas Area Comment Solvency II compliance As a critical deliverable for the Group, the Committee received regular updates on progress and development of against the implementation plan and interactions with regulators.
The process was well managed capital requirements and Brit is in a good position to fully comply with the new regulations.
Use of the Internal The ORSA processes were applied to strategic initiatives including the acquisition of the QBE Model and ORSA aviation portfolio and a review of outwards reinsurance.
The Committee monitored the use of the processes in the review ORSA processes and Internal Model throughout the year.
of strategic initiatives Market conditions and Market conditions are challenging in a number of areas.
The Committee prioritised its review of business outlook the business plan and reviewed analysis from the Internal Model to understand the risk profile.
In addition, stress and scenario and reverse stress tests were performed to understand potential risks to the plan.
