65 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Report of the Audit Committee Role of the Audit Committee Financial statements issued by the Company need to be fair, balanced The Audit Committees main functions are: and understandable.
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems as a whole and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee on which the Company is reliant.
is aware that several sections of the Annual Accounts are not subject To consider whether there is a need for the Group to have its own to formal statutory audit, including the Strategic Report and Investment internal audit function.
Financial information in these sections is reviewed by To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements the Committee, and subject to a review by the Auditor.
of the Group by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and the Administrator.
The Companys half-yearly report is approved by the Audit Committee To meet the independent Auditor of the Group to review their proposed prior to publication, and is also reviewed by the Auditor.
audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report and to assess the effectiveness of the audit process and the levels of fees paid The Audit Committee assesses annually whether it is appropriate to in respect of both audit and non-audit work.
prepare the Groups financial statements on a going concern basis, and To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, makes its recommendation to the Board.
The Boards conclusions are set re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to negotiate their out in the Report of the Directors.
remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work.
To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, During 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed the policy of allocating the objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
costs of the management fee and finance costs between the revenue and capital accounts in the financial statements.
Previously, the annual The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and comprises the management fee was allocated 50% to revenue and 50% to capital, and whole Board.
It operates within defined terms of reference.
finance costs were allocated 100% to revenue.
The AIC SORP states that any allocation should be in line with expected returns, and the allocation Composition of Audit Committee of finance costs should be the same as the allocation of the annual The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board, all of whom are management fee.
The Audit Committee examined historic returns and independent.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant concluded that the proportion of long-term total returns that has resulted financial experience and two are Chartered Accountants.
from capital growth rather than revenue has been much higher than 50%.
This can be expected to continue into the future.
The Audit Committee Significant Issues therefore recommended to the Board that 70% of the annual management In planning its own work, and reviewing the audit plan of the Auditor, the fee and 70% of the finance costs should be allocated to capital, and 30% Audit Committee takes account of the most significant issues and risks, to revenue.
The recommendation was accepted by the Board.
both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Groups financial statements.
Internal Controls The Board through the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that The valuation of the investment portfolio is a significant risk factor.
Of the suitable internal controls systems to prevent and detect fraud and error portfolio, 99.7% can be verified against daily market prices.
The valuation are designed and implemented by the third party service providers to of the remainder of the portfolio is verified by the Investment Manager on the Company and is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of a regular basis and reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Auditor.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the A further significant risk control issue is to ensure that the investment Company and Group in line with the FRCs Internal Control: Guidance portfolio accounted for in the financial statements reflects physical to Directors the Turnbull Guidance and the FRCs Guidance on Audit ownership of the relevant securities.
The Company uses the services Committees published in September 2012.
This process has been in place of an independent Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA to hold the for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this report, assets of the Company.
The investment portfolio is reconciled regularly and accords with the guidance.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated by the Administrator to the Custodians records, and that reconciliation the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the is also reviewed by the Auditor.
In July 2014, the Company appointed Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any a Depositary J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, whose responsibilities failure of such controls are identified in a Risk Matrix, and a schedule of include oversight of the safekeeping of the Companys assets.
Key Risks, which are regularly reviewed by the Board and which identifies the likelihood and severity of the impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise the probability of such risks occurring.
66 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Audit Committee continued The following are the key components which the Company has in place to In addition, at least once a year, the Audit Committee has an opportunity provide effective internal control: to discuss any aspect of the Auditors work with the Auditor in the absence The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specify of the Investment Manager.
levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on compliance with these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board.
After each audit, the Audit Committee reviews the audit process and The Board has a procedure to ensure that the Company can continue considers its effectiveness.
The review of the 2013 audit concluded that to be approved as an investment company by complying with sections the audit process had worked well, and that the significant issues had 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. been adequately addressed.
The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys Auditor Assessment and Independence activities and review its performance.
The Companys external Auditor is Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other has been the Companys Auditor since 1993.
During 2013, the Audit third party service providers, and adherence to them, are regularly Committee conducted a full review of the services provided by the Auditor, reviewed.
and the related fees, and concluded that there was no need, at that stage, The services and controls at the Investment Manager and at other third to conduct a competitive tender.
The Committee is satisfied that those party suppliers are reviewed at least annually.
Audited control reports on conclusions remain valid for 2014.
However, the Committee is mindful of the Custodian and Administrator are received and reviewed.
Amongst the latest Corporate Governance provisions relating to auditor tenure, and other matters, the Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the Group is will keep this matter under consideration.
The current Senior Statutory recovering withholding tax on overseas dividends to the fullest extent Auditor is due to rotate after the 2017 audit.
The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews The Committee also reviewed Ernst & Youngs independence policies and the Investment Managers operations.
The Investment Manager also procedures including quality assurance procedures.
It was considered that employs a compliance consultant.
Compliance reports are submitted to those policies and procedures remained fit for purpose.
the Committee at least annually.
During 2014, the Audit Committee has paid particular attention to the Total fees payable to the Auditor were 55,000 2013: 53,000.
Of these, developing threat of cyber-crime, and requested information from its the fees for audit services were: 34,000 2013: 24,000.
The increase in main suppliers in their management of the threat.
The Audit Committee audit fees recognises a significant increase in workload for the Auditor.
is also conscious that there have been several changes in its, and its Investment Managers, third party suppliers, notably a new Administrator The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the and, for the first time, a Depositary.
The Committee is monitoring the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into service and control levels pursuant to these changes.
account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board, and does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular and independence.
All non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk of must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
The cost of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide non-audit services provided by the Auditor for the financial year ended reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement or loss.
This comprised 13,000 in relation to tax compliance: 6,000 in relation to the half-year As neither the Company nor the Group has any employees, the Company review: and 2,000 in relation to other services.
These non-audit services does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The are assurance related, and the Committee believes Ernst & Young are best Company delegates its main functions to third party providers, each of placed to provide them on a cost effective basis.
The fees for non-audit whom report on their policies and procedures to the Audit Committee.
services are considered not material in the context of the accounts as a whole.
The Audit Committee believes that the Company does not require an internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its dayThe Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst and Young remains to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, independent.
The Committee confirms that the non-audit work undertaken and which provide control reports on their operations at least annually.
by the Companys Auditor satisfies and does not compromise the tests of the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and External Audit Process qualification.
The cost of these services are considered by the Committee The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Auditor.
The to be proportionate in relation to the fees for audit services.
Auditor provides a planning report in advance of the annual audit, a report on the annual audit, and a report on their review of the half-year financial AS Robson statements.
The Committee has an opportunity to question and challenge Audit Committee Chairman the Auditor in respect of each of these reports.
