32 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report Statement of compliance Caledonia recognises the importance The board recognises the importance of good corporate of good corporate governance, which governance and this report describes how the company has complied with The UK Corporate Governance Code issued requires the board to consider the in September 2012. processes, controls and limits within A copy of The UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
uk which the company should operate and Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance UKdefine a working framework that is clear .
and understandable to everyone involved The board Overall responsibility and operation in the management of the company.
The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the company and for supervising its affairs.
It sets the companys strategy, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable the company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also sets the companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
It aims to provide leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and appropriately managed.
To assist its operation, the board has adopted a Schedule of Membership and attendance Authorities which sets out those matters which it specifically The board held eight scheduled meetings during the year.
reserves for its own decision and those which are delegated Attendance of the directors was as follows: to board committees and to executive management.
Matters reserved for the boards own decision include the following: Meetings Meetings eligible the appointment and removal of directors of the company, Director attended to attend as prescribed by the companys articles of association, R D Kent 8 8 and of certain senior executive positions W P Wyatt 8 8 S A King 8 8 the terms of reference of board committees and the membership thereof J M B Cayzer-Colvin 7 8 C M Allen-Jones 8 8 the companys strategy S J Bridges 7 8 annual budgets Hon C W Cayzer 7 8 R Goblet dAlviella 7 8 the companys systems of risk management and internal control C H Gregson 7 8 R B Woods 6 8 treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty 1 D G F Thompson 3 3 exposure limits 1.
Mr Thompson retired from the board at the annual general meeting on 24 July 2013. policy on directors remuneration and terms of appointment significant capital transactions charitable donations and political donations.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separated and clearly defined in the Schedule of Authorities.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board to ensure that it carries out its role effectively and for succession planning.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation of the boards strategy and policies and the management of the companys activities, other than those matters specifically reserved to the board.
The Schedule of Authorities is reviewed annually by the board.
All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board meetings to enable them to discharge their duties and also have unlimited access to senior management should further information be required.
Presentations by pool managers and other senior executives are regularly given to the board, as well as occasionally by senior executives of investee companies.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 33 Appointment, induction and training Other committees The company complies with the recommendation of The UK Various other committees have been established with Corporate Governance Code that all directors of FTSE 350 responsibility for specific areas of the companys activities, companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
other than matters reserved to the board as a whole, as follows: On appointment, new directors are offered induction and The Administrative Committee of the board has been training considered appropriate by the board, and subsequently established to deal with administrative matters of a routine as necessary, and the annual performance evaluation of the nature requiring board approval or matters which are board encompasses the identification of any individual training reserved to the board, but for which board approval has needs of board members so that, if necessary, these can be already been given in principle.
The Administrative reviewed by the Chairman with the directors concerned.
Committee meets when required and is comprised of any The directors receive briefings at board meetings on regulatory two directors.
and other issues relevant to the company and its business sector The Executive Committee meets when required and is and, in addition, may attend external courses to assist in their responsible for matters relating to the day to day management professional development.
of the companys business, other than where delegated to Board composition other committees.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and The biographies of the directors appear on pages 30 and 31. attended by the Chairman, the executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital and the Company Secretary.
The board currently comprises ten directors.
Excluding the Chairman, three of the directors are executive and six are The Investment Management Committee meets weekly non-executive.
The board considers all of the non-executive and considers matters relating to the companys investment directors to be independent, other than The Hon C W Cayzer, portfolio and monitors the companys cash requirements who was an executive director until 3 December 2012.
In and its net asset value per share performance.
The Investment assessing Mr Goblet dAlviellas independence, the board took Management Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive account of the fact that he has served as a non-executive director and is attended by the entire investment team, the Company for nine years and also of his position as Executive Chairman Secretary and the Deputy Company Secretary.
of Sofina SA, whose wholly-owned subsidiary, Rebelco SA, The Investment Approvals Committee considers and formally has a 5.1% shareholding in Caledonia.
Mr Goblet dAlviellas approves new investments and proposed realisations.
position at Sofina has not given rise to any conflicts of interest This committee meets when required, is chaired by the and his circumstances very much accord with the importance Chief Executive and is attended by the Chairman, the that Caledonia attaches to its own executives having board executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital and positions at, or close contact with, investee companies.
Jones has also served as a non-executive director for more than nine years.
The board has specifically considered both his and The Compliance Committee meets weekly to monitor the Mr Goblet dAlviellas length of tenure in the context of The UK companys ongoing compliance with the requirements for Corporate Governance Code and does not believe that their investment trust status and to approve all investment activity independent status is compromised simply by length of service.
from an investment trust compliance perspective.
It also Rather, the experience, character and conduct of each director monitors the potential impact of legal and regulatory are the boards determinants of their independence.
The Compliance Committee is chaired by the Company Secretary and attended by the Finance Director, The company has announced that Harold Bol will be joining the Heads of Tax, Treasury and Finance, the Group Financial the board from 25 June 2014.
Mr Bol is Chief Executive Officer Controller and the Deputy Company Secretary.
of Sofina SA and the board has determined that he will be an independent director, based on the same consideration of his The Challenge Committee formally reviews valuations of all role at Sofina as for Mr Goblet dAlviella.
of the companys investments at each half-year and full-year.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and attended Board committees by the Finance Director, the Head of Finance, the Chairman The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility of the Audit Committee and observed by representatives to the following standing committees: the Nomination from KPMG LLP.
Committee, the Audit Committee, the Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Further details of the work of each of these committees and their membership during the year are set out on pages 35, 36, 38 and 40 respectively.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
34 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report continued Board performance evaluation There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when The board conducts an annual evaluation of its performance the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential and that of its committees and, in accordance with best practice, conflict of interest.
First, only independent directors, being those involves an independent third party to assist in this process who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able every three years.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, Law to take the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, Debenture Governance Services Law Debenture acted as the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good the external facilitator.
Law Debenture invited each director faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
and the Company Secretary to complete an online questionnaire The directors are able to impose time limits or conditions when regarding the operation and effectiveness of the board, giving authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
conducted one to one interviews with each of them and observed The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements a board meeting.
Law Debenture then discussed its findings of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to directors conflicts at a separate session of the board.
Each new director on appointment is required to The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led declare any potential conflict situations, which may relate to him by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and involved or her, or his or her connected persons.
These are reviewed by individual discussions with other members of the board, the board and, if necessary, also by the Governance Committee, the results of which were then considered by the non-executive which then considers whether these situations should be directors without the Chairman present.
The Chairman authorised and, if so, whether any conditions to such authority considered the performance of the non-executive directors and should be attached.
that of the executive directors was reviewed by the Chairman Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on conflicts and the non-executive directors, with the Chief Executive also of interest to ensure that all directors disclose any new potential present for the discussion on the other executive directors.
These are then reviewed, again if necessary Law Debentures review of the effectiveness of Caledonias board also by the Governance Committee, and authorised by the board concluded that shareholders can be confident that the board is as appropriate.
A register of directors conflicts of interest is well led and administered and that governance requirements maintained by the Company Secretary and is reviewed annually are well covered.
A number of minor process improvements by the Governance Committee.
were put forward for the boards consideration, the principal Relations with shareholders being that a clearer specification of the skills and experience The company welcomes dialogue with investors in order required amongst board members might assist in achieving the to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief optimum mix around the board table.
Executive and the Finance Director regularly hold meetings Law Debenture has no other connection with the company.
with institutional investors, private client stockbrokers and fund managers.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Directors conflicts of interest is also available to attend some of these meetings.
Any views Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to put forward by shareholders are reported back to the board, avoid a situation where he has, or could have, a direct or indirect which periodically also receives presentations from the brokers interest which conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the on shareholder feedback and the general market perception of companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 however allows the company.
In addition, the annual general meeting provides directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential a forum for shareholders to meet the directors, both formally conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision and informally.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
Rod Kent Chairman of the board 28 May 2014
