36 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the The Audit Committee plays a significant integrity of the financial statements of the company and any role in ensuring that the companys announcements relating thereto and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
financial statements are properly In addition, it oversees the relationship with the external auditor, prepared and that the system of KPMG LLP KPMG.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal control and risk management procedures and considers controls that is in place is effective annually whether an internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of independent non-executives directors, met three times in the year ended 31 March 2014, in May and November 2013 and in March 2014.
Subsequent to the year end, it met in May 2014 to consider the significant issues in relation to the 2014 annual report.
The external auditor, KPMG, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and various members of the finance team attend the meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other board members and or senior executives may also attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
At the end of each meeting, the Audit Committee has a separate discussion with the external auditor without executive management present.
Membership and attendance The membership and attendance record of the Audit Committee Work of the Audit Committee during the year was as follows: The Audit Committee undertook the following activities in the discharge of its responsibilities.
Meetings Meetings eligible attended to attend Financial statements 1 The main focus of the meetings in May and November 2013 was S J Bridges Chairman 3 3 the 2013 annual report and financial statements and the 2013 C M Allen-Jones 3 3 half-year results respectively, including evaluation of the going R Goblet dAlviella 2 3 concern statements therein.
C H Gregson 3 3 2 D G F Thompson 1 1 The March 2014 meeting considered principally the audit planning for the 2014 annual report, including in particular 1.
Mr Bridges replaced Mr Thompson as chairman of the committee on 24 July 2013.
Mr Thompson retired as a member of the committee on 24 July 2013. the new requirements of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, other new disclose requirements and investment entities accounting.
In its May 2014 meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the form and content of the 2014 annual report and financial statements.
In conducting its review, the Audit Committee considered reports prepared by management and the external auditor.
These reports provided an analytical review of the financial statements, comparing the current to prior year financial position and results, and detailed the judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty involved in applying the accounting policies to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also considered the going concern statement.
The Audit Committee recommended the 2014 annual report to the board.
The significant issues the Audit Committee considered in relation to the 2014 financial statements were the valuation of unlisted and listed investments.
In relation to these financial statements, the Audit Committee also considered material balance sheet provisions, the going concern statement and related liquidity issues, compliance with the annual report fair, balanced and understandable provisions of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and the proposed early adoption of the IASB Investment Entities amendments.
Unlisted valuations The Audit Committee recognises that unlisted investments are a significant component of the financial statements and that their valuation is subject to considerable judgement and uncertainty.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended an internal valuation review meeting along with the external Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 37 auditor and reported to the Audit Committee on the quality Management submitted that Investment Entities would enable of the review, adherence to the companys valuation policy Caledonia to present group accounts broadly consistent with and consistency of valuation methodologies over time.
the existing supplemental company results.
That is, under Investment Entities, all investments except service subsidiaries In the case of one unlisted investment representing 4.9% of would be measured at fair value.
This would significantly net assets, the valuation at 31 March 2014 was based on the simplify the financial statements, making them more expected proceeds from a pending sale, a change in methodology understandable.
The Audit Committee heard that the sale was completed on 1 April 2014 and, therefore, concurred that a The Audit Committee discussed managements submission and year end valuation based on pending proceeds was appropriate.
sought the views of the companys auditor, who agreed that early adoption of Investment Entities would be beneficial to the clarity Listed valuations of the companys financial reporting.
The Audit Committee Listed investments are a significant component of the financial decided that it would recommend early adoption of Investment statements.
The internal valuation review meeting referred to Entities to the board.
above also considered the listed securities, to ensure that the exchange bid prices used in the valuation were from an actively Internal control traded market.
Although a number of investments traded in In the May and November meetings, a report on the internal relatively illiquid markets, there had been at least one trade in control reviews performed during the previous six months was the previous month.
Therefore, the Audit Committee concurred presented, together with an update on the controls assurance that it was appropriate to use the exchange bid price in all cases.
programme given at the March 2014 meeting.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control Balance sheet provisions environment and the structure in place to resolve identified The company holds a provision of 8.3m against a guarantee weaknesses.
The control reviews included treasury segregation, given for potential liabilities of a subsidiary.
The subsidiarys computer security and anti-bribery policy compliance.
No potential liabilities relate to an HMRC claim that losses deducted significant areas of weakness were identified.
The Audit on the derecognition of FTSE index options in 2009 should not be Committee agreed the control review work plan for 2015. allowed.
The company and its advisors have presented its case to HMRC, who are dealing with the issue as a joint case, along with Internal audit a number of other parties.
During the year, there had been no As the company does not have an internal audit function, the significant change to the circumstances of the case.
Therefore, Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need the Audit Committee agreed that it was appropriate to hold a for one.
The company is an investment trust and manages provision equivalent to full cover for the potential loss of the case.
its non-consolidated subsidiaries as other private company investments, expecting them to operate their own risk Going concern management processes.
The company closely monitors the The Audit Committee considered the trading needs of the control environment of its private company investments.
company and its financial capacity, including available bank Additionally, for majority-owned investments, the companys credit and liquid funds, to be wholly sufficient to confirm the auditor is engaged to extend the annual audit to include going concern of the business.
The Audit Committee recommended Fair, balanced and understandable statement to the board that an internal audit function was not required.
The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual report Auditor and, taken as a whole, considered it to be fair, balanced and The Audit Committee last conducted an audit tender process understandable.
The Audit Committee recommended to the in mid-2011.
The main outcomes of the process were the board that the statement of directors responsibilities in respect replacement of Deloitte who had been the companys auditor of the annual report and the financial statements, set out on since 2006 with KPMG Audit Plc and a plan for the development page 57, should be signed accordingly.
of the external audit approach.
The principal planned changes Investment entities were to increase the depth of the audit by reducing the In October 2013, the IASB issued the Investment Entities materiality level and to provide risk assurance reports to amendments to IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 27, for accounting complement the internal reviews.
At its request and for internal periods beginning 1 January 2014.
The EU adopted these reasons, KPMG Audit Plc resigned as the companys auditor IFRS amendments in November 2013.
Management proposed with effect from the conclusion of the annual general meeting that Caledonia should adopt Investment Entities early, for the on 24 July 2013 and was replaced by its immediate parent entity, 31 March 2014 year end, and the Audit Committee examined KPMG LLP.
Management noted that, for a number of years, Caledonias financial presentations had focused on the supplemental results of the company, which were considered to be the most appropriate measure of performance, as they enabled investments in subsidiaries to be measured at fair value.
The company results were thus directly comparable with the results of other investment trusts, which typically do not hold majority stakes.
38 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Audit Committee report continued Audit effectiveness Non-audit work Audit quality is reviewed continuously throughout the year In order to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, by both the Finance Director and Audit Committee.
The focus the Audit Committee maintains a schedule of specific non-audit is centred on the following: activities which may not be undertaken by the external auditor, within the broad principles that the external auditor should not the quality and seniority of the auditors staff audit its own work, should not make management decisions on the appropriateness of the planned audit methodology behalf of the company, should not be put into the role of advocate as applied to Caledonias business activity for the company and that no mutuality of interest should be created between the company and the external auditor.
the level and challenge and quality of reporting to the Audit Committee.
Pre-approval of non-audit fees is required for non-audit fees exceeding pre-determined thresholds.
The effectiveness of the audit is also monitored throughout the year using a number of measures, including but not limited to: Re-appointment of KPMG as auditor KPMG Audit Plc was appointed auditor in 2011 and was replaced a review and approval of the scope of the planned audit by KPMG LLP in 2013.
The lead audit partner is required to the planned implementation of improvements following rotate every five years and other key audit partners every seven appropriate post audit reviews years.
No contractual obligations restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The Audit Committee concluded that the monitoring of the independence of the external auditor KPMG provides an effective audit and the Audit Committee a review of any Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality recommended to the board the re-appointment of KPMG LLP.
Review Report for KPMGs audit of the company Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise discussion with the firms independent senior partner.
the directors to determine the auditors remuneration, will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 17 July 2014.
Private meetings During the year, the Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately and privately with the Finance Director and KPMG.
Stuart Bridges Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 May 2014
