Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 55 Other governance matters Dividends Substantial interests An interim dividend of 13.4p per share 2013 12.9p was As at 31 March 2014, the following had notified the company paid on 9 January 2014 and the board has proposed that a final that they held 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: dividend of 35.7p per share 2013 34.3p be paid on 7 August Number Percentage 2014.
This will result in total dividends for the year of 49.1p of voting of voting rights rights per share 2013 47.2p.
The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,608,252 35.4% Share capital structure 1 Rebelco SA 2,847,344 5.1% The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares 1.
Rebelco SA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sofina SA.
of 5p each and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
There have been no changes in the substantial interests notified The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive to the company up to the date of this report.
dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the company.
All voting rights Employee share trust are however suspended in respect of any of the companys The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires shares that are held in treasury or by group companies.
and holds ordinary shares in the company for subsequent transfer to employees exercising options under the companys The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and executive share option schemes and the performance share are not redeemable.
They carry the right to a fixed cumulative scheme or calling for awards vesting under the companys preference dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any deferred bonus plans.
The voting rights of shares held by the associated tax credit of the nominal value of such deferred trust are exercisable by the independent trustee.
The trustee ordinary shares, being 0.05p per share, or 4,000 in aggregate, has also waived all dividends payable in respect of the ordinary for all such shares currently in issue.
The company is required shares held by the trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% to pay the dividend to the extent that it has distributable profits.
At 31 March 2014, the trust held 320,713 On a winding-up or other return of capital, the deferred ordinary ordinary shares.
shares carry the right to the payment of the amount paid up on such shares only after holders of the ordinary shares have Restrictions on voting rights received the sum of 100,000 in respect of each ordinary share.
The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled All of the deferred ordinary shares are held by Sterling to attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise Industries PLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
any other right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of the company in respect of some or all of the shares At 31 March 2014, 55,411,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 held by him, if he or any person with an interest in such shares deferred ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares has been duly served with a notice under section 793 of the therefore represented approximately 87%, and the deferred Companies Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed period ordinary shares approximately 13%, of the total issued share in supplying to the company the information required or, capital by nominal value.
Of the ordinary shares in issue at in purported compliance with such a notice, has made a 31 March 2014, 3,000 shares were held by a group company.
statement which is false or inadequate in a material particular.
As stated above, all voting rights are suspended on these shares.
Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares or During the year, the company purchased and cancelled 811,011 exercise of voting rights ordinary shares at a total cost of 15.0m.
The companys issued The company is not aware of any arrangements which may share capital after these transactions, as at 27 May 2014, being restrict the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any the latest practicable date prior to signature of these accounts, voting rights.
was 55,411,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares.
Authority to allot and purchase shares At the annual general meeting of the company held on Restrictions on the transfer of shares 24 July 2013, shareholders granted to the directors authority There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the to allot ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of 931,850, companys shares, although the articles of association contain representing approximately one-third of the ordinary share provisions whereby the directors may refuse to register a capital then in issue, with authority to allot additional ordinary transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided shares up to a nominal value of 931,850, representing that such refusal does not prevent dealings in the share from approximately a further one-third of the ordinary share capital taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may then in issue, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of it is a lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office or at such British Insurers.
The directors were further authorised to issue other place as the directors may appoint, accompanied by the ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of 139,775 other than certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other pro rata to existing ordinary shareholders.
These authorities evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show last until 24 October 2014 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b in respect annual general meeting.
of only one class of shares: and c in favour of not more than four transferees.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a shareholder has not supplied information to the company in default of a request duly served under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% of the class of shares concerned.
56 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Other governance matters continued At the annual general meeting held on 24 July 2013, shareholders Appointment and removal of directors and the articles also granted authority for the company to make market of association purchases of up to 5,591,100 of its own ordinary shares, being The appointment and removal of directors is governed by the approximately 10% of the ordinary share capital then in issue, companys articles of association and prevailing company law.
at a price not more than the higher of a 5% greater than the The articles of association provide that at every annual general average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary shares meeting one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, during the five business days preceding any such purchase: the number nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and and b the higher of i the price of the last independent trade therefore be required to seek re-election by shareholders.
in such ordinary shares: and ii the highest current independent New directors may be appointed by the board, but are subject bid relating thereto on the trading venue where the purchase is to election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting carried out, nor at a price less than 5p, being the nominal value of the company following their appointment.
However, to comply of an ordinary share.
This authority lasts until 24 October 2014 with the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code, or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
the company requires that all directors should be subject to At the same time, shareholders who were not members of the annual election by shareholders.
Shareholders may also appoint Cayzer family concert party Cayzer Concert Party gave their new directors by ordinary resolution.
The articles of association approval for a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers limit the number of directors to not less than two and not more of the obligation that could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party than twelve, unless the shareholders resolve otherwise.
under Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make a general offer for Caledonia on the implementation by Customers and suppliers the company of the above authority to purchase its own shares.
The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the The approval was subject to the maximum percentage of voting terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
rights in which the Cayzer Concert Party is interested not The group will abide by those terms on condition that it is exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by the company.
satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services This waiver expires on 24 October 2014 or, if earlier, in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The group the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
Change of control rights Going concern There are no special control rights in relation to the The groups business activities, together with the factors likely companys shares.
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans and Chief Executives report on pages 2 Options granted under the companys executive share option to 5 and the Investment review on pages 10 to 21.
The financial schemes and its performance share scheme and awards made position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and under its deferred bonus plans may become exercisable or vest borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on as a result of a change of control, although the number of shares pages 22 to 24.
In addition, note 23 to the financial statements comprised in those options or awards may be reduced.
The includes the groups objectives, policies and processes for service contracts of certain directors and associate directors managing capital, financial risk management objectives, details also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum is payable of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures by the company in the event of termination within one year to currency risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and following a change of control.
Further details of these change of control rights are set out The group has cash resources and committed bank facilities in the Directors remuneration report.
available to meet existing and new investment commitments.
Investment trust status As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has confirmed that placed to manage business risks successfully.
Caledonia has investment trust status for all financial periods The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has from 1 April 2012. adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Annual general meeting foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going The eighty-fifth annual general meeting of the company will be concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
held at Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN Auditor on Thursday, 17 July 2014 at 11.30 am.
The notice of the annual Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to general meeting and details of all of the resolutions to be re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the company and to authorise put to shareholders are set out in a separate circular sent the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
A description to shareholders at the same time as this annual report.
of how the Audit Committee ensures the objectivity and Directors independence of the auditor is set out on page 38 within The directors of the company are shown on pages 30 and 31. the Audit Committee report.
All of the directors served throughout the year.
In addition, Mr D G F Thompson served as a director until his retirement from the board on 24 July 2013.
Directors indemnity Each of the directors has the benefit, under the companys articles of association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the company.
