The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Audit Committee reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Hextall who is a chartered accountant.
The other members of the Committee are risk management systems, approving the statements made in the David Brief, an experienced pensions investment professional, and Annual Report concerning internal controls and risk management Simon Barratt, an experienced lawyer.
and considering the requirement for an internal audit function: monitoring and reviewing the remit and effectiveness of Meetings Hendersons Internal Audit, Compliance and Business Risk The Committee met twice during the year under review.
The functions in the context of its overall risk management system on Companys Auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee an annual basis: and on a regular basis.
Representatives of Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services may also be invited to attend if deemed necessary.
overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors including, but not limited to: approval of their remuneration, approval of their terms of engagement, assessing annually their independence and Role and Responsibilities objectivity, including the provision of any non-audit services: The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in applying satisfying itself that there are no inappropriate relationships on an financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an annual basis such as family, employment, investment, financial or appropriate relationship with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee business between the Auditors and the Company other than in formally reports to the Board.
The Committees responsibilities are the ordinary course of business.
set out in formal terms of reference which are reviewed at least annually.
Responsibilities include, but are not limited to: Policy on Non-Audit Services monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the The Committee has formulated a policy on the provision of Company, including its annual and half year reports, and any non-audit services by the Companys appointed Auditors and has formal announcements relating to its financial performance: determined that they will never be considered for the provision of services related to accounting and preparation of the financial reviewing the significant financial reporting issues and statements, internal audit, custody, tax advice to Directors and tax judgements made in connection with the preparation of the calculations to support the financial statements.
The Auditors may, Companys financial statements and related formal statements: if required, provide non-audit services related to a review of the Companys half year report, with all other non-audit services being ensuring that the information presented is fair, balanced and judged on a case-by-case basis subject to approval by a member of understandable and provides the information necessary for the Committee.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: Audit for the year ended 30 June 2014 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2014 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and ownership of Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third the Companys investments parties pricing vendors.
Investments that are unlisted or not actively traded are reviewed by Hendersons Fair Value Pricing Committee and or by the Directors.
Ownership is veried by reconciliation to the Custodians records.
Compliance with section 1158 of the The Committee regularly considers the controls in place to ensure that the regulations for Corporation Tax Act 2010 ensuring investment trust status are observed at all times.
Maintaining internal controls The Committee receives regular reports on internal controls from Henderson and its service providers and has access to the relevant personnel of Henderson who have responsibility for risk management and internal audit.
Recognition of income Income received, particularly special dividends, are accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policy as set out on page 40.
Special dividends, and their treatment as income or capital, have been reviewed by the Committee and agreed, taking into account the views of advisers as appropriate.
31 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2014, taken as a whole, isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Audit Tendering As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company will in future be subject to the mandatory auditor rotation requirements of the European Union.
Subject to the detailed implementation of the European requirements in the UK, this is likely to mean that the Company will put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years, and change auditors at least every twenty years.
The Committee will, however, continue to consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
During the year the Company tendered its audit.
The tender was conducted on an integrated basis with Henderson and upon consideration of the tenders received the Board decided to reappoint  LLP.
External Audit, Review and Auditors Reappointment The Committee discuss the audit process with the Auditors without representatives of the Manager present and considers the effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by  LLP.
The Committee is satisfied that the Auditors are independent of the Company.
The Auditors are required to rotate partners every five years and this isthe first year that the current partner has been in place.
 LLP have indicated their willingness tocontinue in ofce.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the appointment of  LLP as Auditors to theCompany, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Fees paid or payable to the Auditors are detailed in note 6 onpage44.
Richard Hextall Audit Committee Chairman 17 September 2014 32
