The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Statement Applicable corporate governance codes to one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM.
However, the UK Code and the AIC Code require all directors of The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the FTSE 350 companies to retire annually.
All the current Directors will Companys affairs.
As an investment trust, the Companys day-to-day therefore retire and, being eligible, have all stated that they will offer responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has no themselves for re-election.
employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
Therefore not all theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC are directly Directorbefore the end of his term by passing an ordinary resolution applicable to the Company.
The Board has therefore considered the at ameeting.
principles and recommendations of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the Association of Investment Companies in February 2013 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Board independence Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the applicable principles set dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee out in the UK Code as well as setting out additional principles and meeting in July 2014, the Directors reviewed their independence and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to the confirmed that all Directors remain wholly independent of Henderson.
The FRC has confirmed that by following the AIC Guide, Richard Hextall is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
There boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which inrelation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk Directors professional development and www.
When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction seminar which is held by Henderson at the request of the Chairman.
Statement of compliance Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Directors believe that internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are during the year under review they have complied with the provisions advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, in relevant training and industry seminars.
Directors individual training and with the provisions of the Code except as noted below: requirements are considered as part of the annual evaluation process which is led bythe Chairman of the Board.
The role of chief executive Executive directors remuneration Directors insurance and indemnification Directors and ofcers liability insurance cover is in place in respect The need for an internal audit function ofthe Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party As the Company delegates to an external investment manager provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs which has its own internal audit function its day-to-day operations which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings and has no employees, the Board does not consider these provisions brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in which to be relevant to the Company and has not reported further in they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
No respect of these provisions.
indemnity was given during the year or up to the date of this report.
Directors The Board Board composition Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors During the year seven Board meetings were held to deal with the shall not be less than three nor more than seven: the Board currently important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board has a formal consists of five non-executive Directors.
The biographies of the schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision, which are Directors holding ofce at the date of this report, which are set out categorised under various headings including strategy, management, onpage 16, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors.
allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
Directors appointment and retirement The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half appointed must stand for election by the shareholders at the AGM year results, interim management statements and other public following appointment, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
documents and for ensuring that such documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
TheArticles of Association require one-third or the number nearest 28 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment Performance Evaluation performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Companys objective and is responsible for setting asset allocation, Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During the investment and gearing limits within which Henderson has year, the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure, discretion to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by Committees and of individual Directors.
The appraisal of the Chairman Henderson.
It also has adopted a procedure for Directors, in the was led by Richard Hextall.
furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional adviceat the expense of the Company.
In order to enable them to The Company is obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely evaluation every three years.
An external review was carried out by access to relevant information.
The evaluation for the current year was undertaken internally.
The evaluation concluded that the Board has a The Board has two Committees: the Audit Committee and good balance of skills and experience.
The terms of reference for these Committees are available on the Companys website Board attendance www.
com or via the Corporate Secretary.
The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee meetings held during the year under review and the number of The Board has not formed a Management Engagement Committee as it meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the AGM remains the role of the Board as a whole to keep under review the terms in October 2013. of the management agreement between the Company and Henderson.
The Board as a whole considers the Directors remuneration, therefore a Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee has not been established because all Board Committee Committee Directors are non-executive.
Number of meetings 7 2 1 Simon Barratt 6 2 1 Audit Committee David Brief 7 2 1 The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Hextall.
The other members Richard Hextall 7 2 1 of the Committee are David Brief and Simon Barratt.
TheReport of the Martin Morgan 6 1 Audit Committee can be found on pages 31 and 32.
Philip Remnant 7 1 Nominations Committee Internal controls All Directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee but would The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, not chair the Committee when the Chairmans successor was being evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board Theprocess has been in place since 2000 and is subject to regular succession planning, the performance of the Board as a whole and review by the Board.
Up to the date of this report the process accords the Board Committees, and the appointment of new Directors.
with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
When considering succession planning, the Committee bears in mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of including gender existing on the Board and will recommend when internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a the recruitment of additional non-executive Directors is required.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to Given the size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide set targets in relation to diversity.
Once a decision is made to reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement recruit additional Directors to the Board, a formal job description is or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys drawn up and each Director is invited to submit nominations and system of internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2014.
During these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed the course of its review of internal controls, the Board has not procedures.
TheCommittee may also use external agencies as and identied or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that have when the requirement to recruit an additional Board member been determined as significant.
Henderson has established an internal control framework to provide The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board the reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the Directors seeking re-election.
Recommendation is not automatic and internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness will follow a process of evaluation of each Directors performance and ofthe internal controls is assessed by Hendersons compliance and consideration of the Directors independence.
The Committee also risk department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives a formal takes into account the mix of skills and experience of the current report from Henderson each quarter detailing the steps taken to Board members.
In accordance with the Code any Director serving monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly the forlonger than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous responsibility of Henderson, and which reports the details of any assessment of his her contribution.
Each year the Board receives from 29 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Statement continued Henderson a report on its internal controls which includes a report Henderson to the Company, such as accounting, company secretarial from Hendersons auditors on the control policies and procedures in and administration services, and Hendersons promotion of investment operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of and savings products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board internal control and risk management into the operation and culture noted Hendersons resources and experience in managing and ofthe Company and its key suppliers.
As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued As all of the Companys management functions are delegated to third appointment of Henderson on the terms agreed is in the interests of parties and the Board monitors the controls in place through the Companys shareholders as a whole.
Hendersons internal audit function department, the Board feels there is no current need for an internal audit function.
Share capital Please see the Report of the Directors on pages 23 and 24.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from Henderson and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all Relations with shareholders the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders would then be reported to the Board.
is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys Henderson takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by individual investments.
Henderson also ensures that all Directors periodic interim management statements and the daily calculation receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and publication of the NAV pershare at the London and New and financial information.
Representatives of Henderson attend Zealand Stock Exchanges and amonthly fact sheet which is each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on available on the website.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Corporate Secretary through its appointed The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that attend and participate in the AGM.
Shareholders have the opportunity Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of rules and regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all the Audit Committee and all other Directors at the meeting and the Board and Committee meetings are fully recorded through a Fund Manager will make a presentation to shareholders.
A summary process that allows any Directors concerns to be recorded in the of the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is displayed minutes.
The Board and Henderson operate in a supportive, at the meeting and each substantial issue is dealt with in a separate co-operative and open environment.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and notice of AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least 20 Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which acts for working days notice of the meeting.
These documents are also Henderson, have arrangements in place by which their staff may, in included on the website.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation to advance of the meeting, or raise issues or concerns at any time, are financial reporting or other matters.
invited to do so by writing to the Corporate Secretary at the address given on page 17.
The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its zero General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow the tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has publication of the annual results.
All meetings between Henderson sought assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers and shareholders are reported to the Board.
that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
New Zealand listing It should be noted that the UK codes of Corporate Governance may Continued appointment of Henderson materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
investment management and other services to the Company on an ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with By order of the Board Henderson are contained on page 4.
The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting Henderson Secretarial Services Limited and a formal review of Henderson is conducted annually.
As part of Corporate Secretary the annual review in July 2014 the Directors discussed the quality 17 September 2014 and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by 30
