Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 47 Corporate Governance To accomplish this the board has held eight regular meetings this year and prior to each board meeting receives reports, not only on the results of each of the three divisions and key performance indicators, but also detailed updates on the progress and implementation of the agreed strategies for each division.
The board has the opportunity to discuss the reports and challenge each of the divisional chief executives, who attend all or part of the board meetings, directly on the progress and implementation of their divisional strategy.
In addition, in May 2014 the board attended two strategy days dedicated to discussing and reviewing the groups long-term strategy with executive management.
There were also four ad hoc meetings called at short notice to approve new board appointments and the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
There has been considerable change in the non-executive composition of the board this year due mainly to planned departures.
We have welcomed three new non-executive directors, each with extensive financial services experience as well as with specialist skills in remuneration, risk and audit respectively, and each has secured regulatory approval.
Our executive management team, which has been in place for several years, has remained stable.
The groups overarching strategy is well defined and set and is producing strong growth and excellent returns.
This year Strone Macpherson, Chairman the boards focus has been on monitoring its delivery in a continuously changing market and competitive backdrop.
The board has reviewed the Banking divisions robust operating model and its information systems.
For the As chairman of Close Brothers, I view Securities division the focus has been particularly on how Winterflood is meeting the challenge of a constantly the governance and oversight of its changing market environment.
For Asset Management the board has reviewed its good progress in meeting its strategic distinctive and prudent business objectives, now that its core proposition and technology are model and strategy as key to the in place.
continuing creation and delivery of The board has also spent time considering challenges facing value to its stakeholders.
the businesses involving people, regulatory changes, technology, competitors and evolving customers habits and expectations.
We are committed to the principles established in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 and this report will explain and demonstrate how the group has applied the principles set out in the Code and complied with its provisions of best practice.
Strone Macpherson Chairman 23 September 2014 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 48 Corporate Governance continued Compliance A copy of the Code can be found on the FRCs website: The Code has been applied by the company throughout the www.
It sets out guidance on best practice in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should The Board be directed and controlled to follow good governance Leadership of the board practice.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA requires The boards primary role is to provide leadership, ensure that companies with a premium listing in the UK to disclose, in the company is appropriately managed and delivers long-term relation to the Code, how they have applied its principles and shareholder value.
It sets the groups strategic objectives and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout provides direction for the group as a whole.
A number of key the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been decisions are reserved for and may only be made by the complied with, companies must provide an explanation for board, which enables the board and executive management this.
to operate within a clear governance framework.
These specific responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters It is the boards view that the companys governance regime reserved to the board which is published on the companys has been fully compliant with the best practice set out in the website and are summarised opposite.
Code for the financial year.
Governance Framework Board governance structure The Board Audit Remuneration Risk Nomination and Committee Committee Committee Governance Committee Executive Committee Responsible for developing strategy, setting business objectives and assisting the chief executive with management of the group.
Board and committee meeting attendance 2013 2014 The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings of which they were members during the financial year is shown in the table below.
Some directors also attended committee meetings as invitees during the year.
This is not reflected in the table.
Remuneration Nomination and Governance 1 Board Audit Committee Committee Risk Committee Committee Total Total Total Total Total Regular Ad hoc eligible Regular eligible Regular eligible Regular Ad hoc eligible Regular Ad hoc eligible attended attended to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended attended to attend attended attended to attend Executive director Preben Prebensen 8 4 12 Jonathan Howell 8 4 12 2 Stephen Hodges 7 3 12 Elizabeth Lee 8 4 12 Non-executive director Strone Macpherson 8 4 12 4 3 7 3 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8 2 12 4 5 5 5 5 2 7 4 3 7 Oliver Corbett 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 Ray Greenshields 5 1 7 4 4 2 2 4 4 2 1 4 4 Geoffrey Howe 8 3 12 5 5 5 5 5 2 7 4 2 7 4 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 7 2 11 5 5 4 4 5 2 7 3 2 6 5 Lesley Jones 6 2 9 3 3 3 4 3 2 5 2 2 4 6 Bridget Macaskill 7 2 11 2 3 4 4 3 1 5 2 2 5 Douglas Paterson 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 1 Of the 12 board meetings held during the year, eight were regular meetings and four were ad hoc meetings.
Of the ad hoc meetings, three were held to approve appointments to the board and its committees and one to approve the ICAAP.
All serving directors were invited to these ad hoc meetings and provided with board papers, but were not always able to attend at short notice.
2 The regular board meetings were attended by all directors eligible to attend being held during their tenure of office, except that Stephen Hodges was unable to attend one of them.
3 Bruce Carnegie-Brown was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting.
4 Ray Greenshields, Geoffrey Howe and Shonaid Jemmett-Page were each unable to attend one of the ad hoc Nomination and Governance Committee meetings.
5 Lesley Jones was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting.
6 Bridget Macaskill was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting, one ad hoc Risk Committee meeting and one ad hoc Nomination and Governance Committee meeting.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 49 Specific responsibilities executive directorships which may be held by a director of Setting and monitoring strategy: some regulated entities.
After a brief interim period, Oliver Oversight of regulatory compliance and internal control: Corbett was appointed chairman of the Audit Committee on Ensuring adequate financial resources: 14 July 2014, following receipt of regulatory approval.
Acquisitions and disposals over certain thresholds: Approval of communications to shareholders: The structure of the board continues to ensure that no Board membership and other appointments: and individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Corporate governance matters.
decision making process and no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
The board has delegated specific powers for some matters to its committees, as set out in each committees terms of Details of the individual directors and their biographies are reference.
These terms of reference, which are reviewed set out on pages 42 and 43. annually, detail a full list of each committees responsibilities and are available on our website at www.
com The board has assessed the independence of each of the investor-relations company-information corporatecurrent five non-executive directors and is of the opinion that governance.
The chairman of each committee reports each acts in an independent and objective manner and regularly to the board on matters discussed at committee therefore, under the Code, is independent and free from any meetings.
relationship that could affect their judgement.
The boards opinion was determined by considering for each nonAt each regular scheduled meeting the board receives executive director: reports from the chief executive and finance director on the Whether they are independent in character and performance and results of the group.
In addition, the heads judgement: of the Banking, Securities and Asset Management divisions How they conduct themselves in board and committee update the board on performance, strategic developments meetings: and initiatives in their respective areas and the head of legal Whether they have any interests which may give rise to an and regulatory affairs provides updates on legal matters.
actual or perceived conflict of interest: and In addition the board receives updates from the group Whether they act in the best interests of the company and operating functions on compliance, human resources and of all its shareholders at all times.
The company has therefore complied with the Code There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure provision that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Each at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
non-executive director is required to confirm at least annually, Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time whether any circumstances exist which could impair their for consideration and debate of all matters.
During the year, the board has spent time particularly on: Following the various changes in its composition, the board Presentations from the businesses: now comprises seven male and three female members.
This Presentations on IT strategy and information systems: means that 30% of the directors are women.
The board is Engagement with the regulators: committed to ensuring a diverse pool of candidates is The ICAAP and reverse stress testing: and considered for any vacancies that may arise and that they The groups Modern Merchant Banking branding are filled by the most qualified candidates based on merit, campaign.
having regard to the benefits of diversity.
All directors also attended a dedicated two day strategy Meetings and attendance session in May 2014 on strategy development and execution.
The board normally holds eight regular scheduled meetings in addition to the two day strategy session.
During the year Board size, composition and independence four ad hoc board meetings were also called to deal with During the majority of the financial year the board comprised specific time critical matters.
These concerned approval of ten members: the chairman, four executive directors and five the appointment of the three new directors and of the ICAAP independent non-executive directors.
The executive team prior to its submission to the Prudential Regulation Authority has remained stable, but there was considerable change in PRA.
No additional board meetings were convened to the composition of the independent non-executive directors deal with operational issues.
Details of attendance at board due mainly to planned departures.
Douglas Paterson retired meetings can be found on page 48. at the AGM in November 2013 and was succeeded as Audit Committee chairman by Shonaid Jemmett-Page.
On the The directors receive detailed papers in advance of each same day, Bridget Macaskill joined the board.
The board agenda is carefully structured by 2013, Lesley Jones was appointed to the board, succeeding the chairman in consultation with the company secretary and Ray Greenshields as Risk Committee chairman on 31 March the chief executive.
Each director may review the agenda 2014 on his retirement as a director.
In June 2014, Oliver and propose items for discussion with the chairmans Corbett was appointed to the board, following the decision agreement.
Additional information is also circulated to of Shonaid Jemmett-Page to stand down as a non-executive directors between meetings including relevant updates on director of the company from 1 July 2014 due to the the business and regulatory announcements.
requirements of CRD IV, restricting the number of nonClose Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 50 Corporate Governance continued The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a In April 2014, the Nomination and Governance Committee substantial time in advance in order to ensure the availability recommended that the 2014 board evaluation be undertaken of each of the directors.
In the event that directors are unable internally, as permitted by the Code.
The evaluation was led to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they by the company secretary and took the form of confidential receive papers in the normal manner and have the questionnaires which assessed the performance of the opportunity to relay their comments in advance of the board and its committees.
meeting, as well as follow up with the chairman if necessary.
The same process applies in respect of the various board The questions were set to develop the themes explored in committees.
previous years evaluations in order to assess the progress of the board over the year, particularly in the light of its changed Chairman and chief executive composition.
The 2014 evaluation therefore focused on the The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate following areas: and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Board and committee competencies and experience: two roles.
In accordance with the Code, there is a written Strategic direction: statement of the division of responsibilities which has been Effectiveness of the board and director commitment: reviewed and approved by the board.
The chairman is Board induction and training: Strone Macpherson.
His other significant commitments are Succession planning for the executive population: and set out in his biography on page 42.
The board is satisfied Use of time at board meetings.
that his other commitments do not restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
The feedback from the evaluations was collated by the company secretary, reviewed with the chairman and As chairman, Strone Macpherson is primarily responsible for presented to the board by the chairman in June 2014. leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement and contribution of all the directors.
His other responsibilities The majority of responses were positive and the verbal include setting the agenda for board meetings, providing the feedback was substantive, driven by the insights of the new directors with information in an accurate, clear and timely non-executive directors.
They were concentrated on board manner and the promotion of effective decision making.
The competencies and depth of non-executive experience, chairman is also charged with ensuring that the directors particularly in the light of the rapid change in the composition continually update their skills and knowledge and that the of the board and in its range of skills, driven by the need to performance of the board, its committees and the individual appoint specialists to the board to meet regulatory directors is evaluated on an annual basis.
The group chief executive is Preben Prebensen who is The 2014 evaluation also assessed the effectiveness of each primarily responsible for the day-to-day management of the of the boards committees.
The committee members were groups business.
His other responsibilities include proposing asked questions regarding governance arrangements, the and developing strategic objectives for the group, managing quality of advice and input from external advisers, the quality the groups risk exposures in line with board policies, of contribution of relevant internal functions, the timeliness, implementing the decisions of the board and facilitating relevance and quality of presentations and disclosure by the appropriate and effective communication with shareholders executive and the overall effectiveness of the committees.
Senior independent director The evaluation confirmed the directors opinion that the The senior independent director is Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
board and its committees continue to be effective.
In addition to the existing channels for shareholder communications, shareholders may discuss any issues or In addition to the board evaluation process, the senior concerns they may have with the senior independent independent director led a separate performance review in director.
respect of the chairman which involved a review with the non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, and Powers of directors separate consultation with the chief executive.
The senior The directors are responsible for the management of the independent director subsequently provided feedback to the company.
They may exercise all powers of the company, chairman on his appraisal which confirmed his effectiveness.
subject to any directions given by special resolution and the articles of association.
The directors have been authorised to Appointment of directors allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market The appointment of directors is governed by the companys purchases of the companys ordinary shares by virtue of articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other resolutions passed at the companys 2013 AGM.
Directors may be elected by shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the Board evaluation board of directors in accordance with the provisions of the In 2013, the evaluation of the board and its committees was articles of association.
The articles of association may be carried out by an external consultant.
The evaluation amended by special resolution of the shareholders and were explored three key aspects of board and committee last amended in November 2009. effectiveness: the board environment, the work of the board and the use of time.
Overall, the conclusions from the evaluation were positive and identified a number of board strengths.
These initiatives were developed over the course of the 2014 financial year.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 51 In accordance with the Code all directors are subject to to identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which the re-election at the AGM.
The board will only recommend to group is, or might become, exposed.
The board has a well shareholders that executive and non-executive directors be defined risk appetite with risk appetite measures which are proposed for re-election at an AGM after evaluating the integrated into decision making, monitoring and reporting performance of the individual directors.
Following the processes, with early warning trigger levels set to drive the performance evaluations, the board will be recommending required corrective action before overall tolerance levels are that all directors standing for re-election be re-elected by reached.
The risk framework through key committees, shareholders and confirms that each director continues to be including the Risk Committee and Audit Committee, is the effective and demonstrates commitment to their role.
mechanism that ensures the board receives comprehensive risk information in a timely manner.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business Identification, measurement and management of risk are hours at the companys registered office.
fundamental to the success of the group.
Over the past 12 months the group has continued to strengthen its risk Induction and professional development management framework and further develop the groups risk On appointment all new directors receive a comprehensive committees, at both board and divisional level, and these and personalised induction programme to familiarise them continue to work efficiently and effectively.
with the company and to meet their specific requirements.
The company also provides bespoke inductions for directors The groups risk and control framework is designed to allow when they are appointed as a committee chairman.
the capture of business opportunities while maintaining an Induction programmes are tailored to a directors particular appropriate balance of risk and reward within the groups requirements, but would typically include site visits, one-toagreed risk appetite.
It further ensures that the risks to which one meetings with executive directors, the company the group is or may become exposed are appropriately secretary, senior management for the business areas and identified and that those which the group chooses to take support functions and a confidential meeting with the are managed, controlled and, where necessary, are external auditor.
Directors also receive guidance on directors mitigated so that the group is not subject to material liabilities and responsibilities.
programmes were completed by each of the new nonexecutive directors during the year.
The group reviews and adjusts its risk appetite annually as part of the strategy setting process.
This aligns risk taking There is a central training programme in place for the with the achievement of strategic objectives.
Adherence to directors which is reviewed and considered by the board.
appetite is monitored by the groups risk committees.
In addition, the chairman discusses and agrees any specific requirements as part of each non-executive directors half The Risk Committee conducted its annual review of the year and year end reviews.
During the year, training took the adequacy and effectiveness of the groups risk management form of informal meetings with senior management within the and internal control arrangements in relation to the groups businesses and control functions, in-depth business reviews, strategy and risk profile for the financial year.
This review was attendance at external seminars and briefings from the approved by the board which considers that it has in place regulators and from internal and external advisers covering adequate systems and controls with regard to the topics such as: companys profile and strategy.
Boardroom developments: Changes in Companies Act and accounting requirements: The risk management framework is based on the concept of Regulatory developments: and three lines of defence, as set out in the table on page 52, Cyber security.
and the key principles underlying risk management in the group are: Training and development records are maintained by the Business management own all the risks assumed company secretary and reviewed annually by the chairman throughout the group and are responsible for ensuring that and each individual director.
these are managed on a day-to-day basis to ensure that risk and return are balanced: The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the The board and business management promote a culture board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are in which risks are identified, assessed and reported in an observed.
All directors have direct access to the services open, transparent and objective manner: and advice of the company secretary.
Directors are able to The overriding priority is to protect the groups long-term take independent external professional advice to assist with viability and produce sustainable medium to long-term the performance of their duties at the companys expense.
revenue streams: Risk functions are independent of the businesses and Risk and Control Framework provide oversight of and advice on the management of risk The board has overall responsibility for maintaining a system across the businesses: of internal control to ensure that an effective risk Risk management across the group is proportionate to the management and oversight process operates across the scale and complexity of the groups individual businesses: group.
The risk management framework and associated Risk mitigation and control activities are commensurate governance arrangements are designed to ensure that there with the degree of risk: and is a clear organisation structure with well defined, transparent Risk management and control supports decision making.
and consistent lines of responsibility and effective processes Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 52 Corporate Governance continued Risk Management Framework First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence The businesses Risk and Compliance Internal Audit Group Risk and Compliance Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Reports to the Risk Committee Reports to the board Reports to the board Chief executive delegates to divisional Risk Committee delegates to Audit Committee mandates the head and operating business heads day-tothe group chief risk officer day-to-day of group internal audit with day-to-day day responsibility for risk management, responsibility for oversight and responsibility for independent assurance.
regulatory compliance, internal control challenge on risk related issues.
and conduct in running their divisions or Internal audit provides independent businesses.
Risk functions including compliance assurance on: provide support and independent First and second line of defence: Business management has day-tochallenge on: Appropriateness effectiveness of day ownership, responsibility and Risk framework: internal controls: and accountability for risks: Risk assessment: Effectiveness of policy implementation.
Identifying and assessing risks: Risk appetite and strategy: Managing and controlling risks: Performance management: Key features Measures risk key risk indicators early Risk reporting: Draws on deep knowledge of the warning indicators : Adequacy of mitigation plans: and group and its businesses: Mitigating risks: and Group risk profile.
Independent assurance on the Reporting risks.
activities of the firm including the risk Key features management framework: Key features Overarching risk oversight unit takes Assesses the appropriateness and Promotes a strong risk culture and an integrated view of risk qualitative effectiveness of internal controls: and focus on sustainable risk-adjusted and quantitative : Incorporates review of culture and returns: Risk management separate from risk conduct.
Implements the risk framework: control but work together: Promotes a culture of adhering to limits Supports through developing and and managing risk exposures: advising on risk strategies: Promotes a culture of customer focus Creates constructive tension through and appropriate behaviours: challenge critical friend trusted Ongoing monitoring of positions and adviser: and management of risks: Oversight of business conduct.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 53 Risk Committee Chairmans overview This year has seen some particular challenges for the Risk Committee in its oversight of risk management.
The external environment remains difficult: the UK economy continues to recover but against a background of tight fiscal policy, restrictive credit conditions, weak consumer purchasing power and potential for shocks from the Eurozone and global economy.
In addition, the regulatory and political environment continues to evolve, and conduct risk remains in high focus.
Our regulators continue to seek assurance on the robustness of the industrys risk management infrastructure and on the ability of financial institutions to maintain a strong capital and liquidity profile in a stressed environment.
Notwithstanding these external challenges, I am pleased to report that the groups prudent and consistent strategy and risk management discipline has enabled it to maintain a robust capital position and low risk profile.
The Committee maintains an appropriate balance of its scheduled review of key risks, whilst maintaining a dynamic approach so that emerging risks are appropriately escalated and considered and management actions and plans are constructively challenged.
The Committee continued its focus on improving the quality of the management information it receives in order to better understand the current and emerging risks facing the group.
A strong risk Lesley Jones, Chairman of the Risk Committee culture is an important prerequisite for the groups adherence to risk appetite and for the effective operation of its risk framework and associated policies, practices and procedures.
The Committee continues to oversee This report explains the role and managements focus on embedding a sound risk culture across the group.
responsibilities of the Risk Committee Committee roles and responsibilities which supports the board in its The Committees key roles and responsibilities are therefore oversight of risk management across in summary to: Oversee the maintenance and development of a the group.
The following sections supportive culture in relation to the management of risk: set out the Committees membership, Review and set risk appetite, which is the level of risk the group is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives: its key responsibilities and Monitor risk profile against the prescribed appetite: Review the effectiveness of the risk framework to ensure the principal areas of risk upon which that key risks are identified and appropriately managed: we have focused during the year.
and Provide input from a risk perspective into the alignment of The identification, management and remuneration with performance against risk appetite mitigation of risk is fundamental through the Remuneration Committee.
to the success of the group.
Membership and meetings The Committee comprises me as chairman and each of the The Committee plays an important independent non-executive directors.
I succeeded Ray role in setting the tone and culture Greenshields as chairman on 31 March 2014 following his retirement as a director of the company.
Douglas Paterson that promotes effective risk and Shonaid Jemmett-Page were also members for part of management across the group.
Five regular meetings were held during the year, together with two ad hoc meetings convened to consider the ICAAP.
Full details of attendance by the non-executive directors at these meetings during the year are set out on page 48.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 54 Corporate Governance continued In addition to the members of the Committee, standing Given the impact of high profile IT failings seen elsewhere invitations are extended to the company chairman, the across the industry, the group commissioned an executive directors, chief risk officer, head of compliance and independent review of its business continuity and disaster the head of internal audit.
All of them attend meetings as a recovery capabilities.
The findings and proposed matter of practice and have supported and informed the enhancements were discussed at Committee and are being Committees discussions.
The company secretary acts as rolled out across the group.
Relationships with third parties remained under review to Other executives, subject matter experts and external ensure that outsourcing arrangements are appropriately advisers may also be invited to attend the Committee to controlled and the financial condition of third party agents or present and advise on reports commissioned.
suppliers is monitored and understood.
I continue to meet regularly with the chief risk officer and The introduction of a new regulatory regime under the dual have regular formal and informal meetings with senior management of the PRA and FCA has increased the level of management across the group to discuss key risks and supervisory interaction and the group has devoted increased emerging issues.
resources to ensure that it is well placed to implement new regulation.
The Committee now receives a presentation on Activity in 2014 financial year conduct risk at each of its meetings.
Conduct topics The Committee has continued to devote considerable time debated during the year included: the progress of new to assessing the changing external environment and in product risk assessments: the results of outcome testing particular new and emerging risks and their impact on the including mystery shopping results and complaint metrics: group.
Standing discussion topics included speed of rewards and incentives: and specific deep dives, including recovery of the UK economy and the continued risk of reviews of individual products prior to and following their shocks from the Eurozone.
landscape including the threat posed by challenger banks and the evolving shape of operational risk, in particular We continue to oversee and review the change management increased cyber threats, were also considered in detail.
programmes across the group, and in our regular Committee meetings we review and challenge the progress of key We have maintained our focus on ensuring that, as the loan projects.
book continues to grow, we remain vigilant on the credit quality of new business and adhere to our agreed credit risk Remuneration appetite.
In support of this we have overseen a strengthening We provided input to the Remuneration Committee to ensure of the credit risk management framework including the that risk behaviours and the management of operational risk further enhancement of governance and control through incidents over the course of the financial year were better management information and a comprehensive appropriately reflected in the annual management programme of credit quality assurance reviews which performance and compensation review process.
challenge the rigour of our controls and the sustainability of our loan book growth.
The Committee receives regular Looking ahead to 2015 reports from the credit risk function on individual credit Key priorities for the coming year include: portfolios with historically higher risk characteristics.
A continued focus on emerging risks and an assessment Specifically this year as part of the ICAAP process, we have of the mechanisms we use to anticipate these, in particular stressed the impact of a significant fall in property prices in in cyber crime and customer conduct risk: the south east of England, as well as the impact on our An appraisal of the changing economic and regulatory portfolios of a significant rise in interest rates.
Following environment and the continued strength of controls in our robust debate and challenge, the Committee and board product suite: and were satisfied that the groups business model and risk A continued investment in development of our appetite model remained appropriate under each of these Committees management information to ensure that we stresses.
remain well equipped to assess the ongoing challenge in balancing risk appetite with our product and customer The Committee additionally received regular updates across ambitions.
the spectrum of operational risks and information technology.
In response to the growing threat posed by cyber crime, we Lesley Jones conducted a deep dive on cyber risk and reviewed the threat Chairman of the Risk Committee posed by the external environment, the adequacy of the groups internal control framework to respond to this threat 23 September 2014 and our planned investment to deal with increasing levels of cyber risk.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 55 Audit Committee Chairmans overview This report sets out the work performed by the Committee for the year under review.
The groups business model and activities have remained broadly unchanged during the year and as a result the Committee has focused in particular on reviewing and challenging the groups key accounting judgements.
This is described in more detail below.
In addition to our normal oversight of internal audit we have spent time this year on establishing new criteria for assessing the effectiveness of the function in future.
Overall the Committee believes the groups reporting is fairly presented, key accounting judgements are reasonable and appropriate, and that both external and internal audit remain effective.
Looking forward the Committee will continue to focus on its core responsibilities while also assessing the impact of future accounting and regulatory changes on the group.
Committee roles and responsibilities The Committees key roles and responsibilities are to: Monitor the integrity of the groups external financial reporting, in particular reviewing significant financial reporting judgements to ensure they are appropriate: Review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls: and Oliver Corbett, Audit Committee Chairman Monitor and review the activities and performance of both internal and external audit.
Membership and meetings The Audit Committee continues to The Committee comprises me as chairman and each of the independent non-executive directors.
After a brief interim play a key role in supporting the period, I succeeded Shonaid Jemmett-Page as Audit Committee chairman from 14 July 2014 following her board in its oversight of the financial decision to stand down as a director of the company.
reporting and internal controls of the Douglas Paterson and Ray Greenshields were also members for part of the year.
The Committee acts independently of the executive to ensure interests of shareholders are protected.
Each of the Committee members is independent.
Five meetings were held during the year scheduled to coincide with the financial reporting cycle of the group.
Each of the Committee members attended all meetings held after their appointment with the exception of Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Bridget Macaskill who missed a single meeting.
Full details of attendance are shown in the table on page 48.
The qualifications of the members of the Committee are outlined in their biographies on pages 42 and 43.
I am deemed to have recent and relevant experience by the board.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 56 Corporate Governance continued Standing invitations are extended to the chairman of the Fair, Balanced and Understandable board and the executive directors, all of whom attend The Committee considered on behalf of the board whether meetings as a matter of practice.
The company secretary the 2014 Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole are acts as secretary to the Committee.
I meet with the group fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee reviewed finance director, the heads of internal audit, risk and the groups processes around preparation, review and compliance and the group financial controller in advance of challenge of the report and the consistency of the narrative each of the scheduled meetings to agree the agenda and sections with the financial statements including the limited receive full briefing on relevant issues.
This group also amount of adjusting items.
The Committee also had the attends the meetings by invitation together with other senior opportunity to discuss the balance and tone of the overall executives as required.
The lead external audit partner report with the chief executive.
The Committee was satisfied attends all of the Committee meetings and meets in private that it is appropriate to recommend to the board that the with the Committee on each occasion.
In addition I, and my report is fair, balanced and understandable.
predecessors as chairman, have had regular contact with the lead audit partner throughout the year.
Internal Audit The group has operated a co-source internal audit function Key Accounting Judgements with PwC since 2009.
This provides flexible resourcing and Credit provisioning ensures access to a full range of audit expertise across the The Committee received reports prior to both the interim and groups businesses.
The Committee assessed the full year results explaining the approach taken to credit appropriate level of overall resources required and the mix of provisioning.
The key areas of review and challenge were: internal and external resources to optimise the internal audit Understanding the approach taken to each business line, function and concluded that resources remain sufficient.
including the triggers used to determine evidence of impairment: and During the year, the Committee approved the annual internal The governance in place to ensure that loans were audit plan.
It also received a report from the head of internal assessed in line with stated policies and on a consistent audit at each meeting summarising audits concluded in the basis.
period and updates on outstanding agreed actions from previous reports including explanations around any overdue The Committee challenged in particular the supporting actions.
The reports have also included new measures evidence for the further reduction in the loan impairment rate around culture and behaviour.
The function completed 18 and the consistency of the key assumptions for the current audits across the group during the 2014 financial year.
The Committee was satisfied that The head of internal audit meets the Committee privately at the approach taken and judgements made were reasonable.
each meeting as well as meeting regularly with the Audit Committee chairman throughout the year.
Revenue recognition A paper was presented to the Committee explaining revenue In addition, the Committee reviewed an internal summary of recognition across the group.
In particular the paper focused internal audit effectiveness during the year.
Results were on the timing of income recognition and the consistency of satisfactory and action plans put in place to further enhance the approach to determining whether revenue should be effectiveness, including establishing new criteria against recognised immediately or spread over time.
The Committee which the effectiveness of the internal audit function will be focused on the effective interest rate calculations in the assessed in future.
Banking division, fee and commission income in Asset Management and gains less losses on Securities trading and External Audit concluded that the policies in place were appropriate noting The Committee assesses the independence and objectivity, the generally straightforward nature of the groups products qualifications and effectiveness of the external auditor on an and services.
The Committee also concludes on whether to recommend the reappointment of the auditor to the board.
Goodwill The Committee reviewed the annual assessment of the Our annual evaluation focused on the following key areas: carrying value of goodwill.
In particular the Committee The quality of audit expertise, judgement and dialogue assessed the following key inputs to the value in use with the Committee and senior management: calculations for each of the groups cash generating units to The independence and objectivity demonstrated by the which goodwill is allocated: audit team: and Future cash flow projections ensuring consistency with the The quality of service including consistency of approach groups wider forecasts: and and responsiveness.
Assessing the rationale and reasonableness of the discount rates and future growth rates applied.
This process was facilitated by an enhanced group-wide survey of finance teams, formal interviews with management, The Committee also looked at the levels of headroom above a survey of the Deloitte LLP senior audit teams view on carrying value and were satisfied with managements the group and a review of audit and non-audit fees.
conclusion that the carrying value of goodwill remains The Committee discussed the results in the absence of appropriate.
Deloitte LLP although the results were shared to ensure enhancements could be made for future years.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 57 The Committee oversees the groups policy on the provision Nomination and Governance Committee of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee This report sets out the role and responsibilities of the continues to see benefits for the group in engaging Deloitte Nomination and Governance Committee.
LLP where: Work is closely related to the audit: Committee roles and responsibilities A detailed understanding of the group is required: and The Committees key roles and responsibilities are: Deloitte LLP is able to provide a higher quality and or Considering the appointment or retirement of directors: better value service.
Evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience required for a particular appointment, normally with the However, the key principle of our policy is that permission to assistance of external advisers used to facilitate the search engage the external auditor will always be refused when a for suitable candidates: threat to independence and or objectivity is perceived.
Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board: During the year non-audit fees amounted to 1.0 million and Considering the leadership needs of the group and were 92% of the overall audit fee 2013: 57%.
Non-audit fees considering succession planning for directors and other in the year were: senior executives: and Assessing the contribution of non-executive directors.
million Membership and meetings Assurance work on: The Committee comprises myself as chairman, Bruce Systems and controls 0.3 Carnegie-Brown, Oliver Corbett and Lesley Jones who chair Securitisation funding 0.1 the Remuneration, Audit and Risk Committees respectively, Geoffrey Howe and Bridget Macaskill.
Ray Greenshields, Tax compliance 0.2 Shonaid Jemmett-Page and Douglas Paterson were also Other 0.4 members for part of the year.
Four regular meetings were held 1.0 during the year, together with three ad-hoc meetings convened to recommend new board appointments.
Underlying non-audit fees were similar to the prior year but a All members attended each of the meetings held during one-off fee of 0.3 million to support the group with a their tenure of office, except that Geoffrey Howe, Ray potential corporate transaction was agreed in the year.
The Greenshields, Shonaid Jemmett-Page and Bridget Macaskill Committee concluded that Deloitte LLP were best placed to were each unable to attend one of the ad-hoc meetings.
undertake this work given their knowledge of the group, the In addition, the chief executive and, where appropriate, the quality of their team and the confidentiality of the potential group head of human resources, attend meetings by transaction.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee concluded that all of these fees fell within its criteria for engaging Deloitte LLP and does not believe they Activity in 2014 financial year pose a threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
During the year the Committee focused on: The search for and nomination of new non-executive The Committee has concluded that Deloitte LLP remain directors with the appropriate skills: independent and that their audit is effective.
Deloitte LLP or Reviewing the non-executive directors skill sets to ensure its predecessor firm has audited the group since it was first that an appropriate balance of skills has been maintained: listed in 1984, but has only acted as the groups sole auditor Executive management succession planning: and since 2008.
Although a full audit tender was not carried out, Board evaluation.
a detailed proposal was reviewed at that time prior to Deloitte LLPs appointment as sole auditor to the group.
No audit The Committee recommended the appointment of Bridget tender is planned for the current year given the continuing Macaskill, Lesley Jones and Oliver Corbett to the board as effectiveness of Deloitte LLP.
However, as reported last year, new independent non-executive directors.
In each case, it the Committee intends that an audit tender will take place no determined from its search of candidates with a respective later than completion of the current lead partners five year background in remuneration, risk and audit that they had the term in 2017 in line with the Code and within the transitional right technical and commercial skills, breadth of experience period set out in recent EU legislation.
and capacity to take on the role given other commitments.
Oliver Corbett Audit Committee Chairman 23 September 2014 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 58 Corporate Governance continued The Committee nominated Bridget Macaskill on the basis of Remuneration Committee her extensive financial services experience and significant The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration is set remuneration committee credentials and familiarity with FCA out on pages 60 to 79.
PRA and EU remuneration regulations.
Its nomination of Lesley Jones was made, having determined that she had the Conflicts of Interest appropriate experience within a financial services The articles of association include provisions giving the organisation and familiarity with FCA PRA and EU risk directors authority to approve conflicts of interest and regulations.
It nominated Oliver Corbett on the basis of his potential conflicts of interest as permitted under the recent and relevant financial experience and strong financial Companies Act 2006. and audit skills and a track record of audit committee experience including as chairman, as well as recent A procedure has been established whereby actual and experience as a finance director.
potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and appropriate authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of An external search consultancy, Russell Reynolds, was used any new director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to for each appointment, but advertising was not required in authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by nonthese instances.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection conflicted directors and in making such a decision the with the company.
directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The Committee considered the benefits of diversity, including The board believes this procedure operated effectively gender, during its deliberations on these positions, which throughout the year.
were filled by the most qualified candidates based on merit.
Whilst these appointments required specialist qualifications, Investor Relations each has widened the range of insights and perspectives The group has a comprehensive investor relations IR brought to the boards deliberations.
programme to ensure that current and potential shareholders, as well as financial analysts, are kept well Strone Macpherson informed of the groups performance and have appropriate Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee access to management to understand the companys business and strategy.
23 September 2014 The board believes it is important to maintain open and constructive relationships with all shareholders.
The IR team, reporting to the finance director, are responsible for managing a structured programme of meetings, calls and presentations around the financial reporting calendar as well as throughout the year.
The chief executive and finance director meet with the groups major institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
In addition, the chairman arranges to meet with them once a year to discuss challenges facing the board, particularly in relation to strategy, corporate governance and remuneration.
Separately the senior independent director is available, should shareholders wish to discuss any concerns they may have.
All shareholders also have the opportunity to raise questions with the board at the AGM, either in person or by submitting written questions in advance.
The chairman of each of the board committees attends the AGM and all other directors are expected to attend the meeting.
The board is regularly updated on the IR programme.
An IR report, summarising share price performance, share register composition and feedback from any investor meetings, is produced for each board meeting.
All results announcements, annual reports, regulatory news announcements, presentations, webcasts and other relevant documents are available on the IR section of the group website www.
The groups investor briefcase app for iPads and iPhones also offers analysts and investors access to financial reports, presentations and news releases.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 59 Substantial Shareholdings Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the The company has been notified to 12 September 2014 under specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of users to understand the impact of particular transactions, the following significant interests in the voting rights of the other events and conditions on the entitys financial company.
position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Ordinary Voting shares rights millions % The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Standard Life Investments 14.9 10.03 accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Aberdeen Asset Managers 11.6 7.83 accuracy at any time the financial position of the company Prudential 10.0 6.81 and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Schroders 6.4 4.33 comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Artemis Investment Management 5.9 4.01 responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and Caledonia Investments 5.9 3.99 hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Royal London Asset Management 4.5 3.03 Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors report, from those of other shareholders.
directors remuneration report and corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Report and accounts in accordance with applicable law and integrity of the corporate and financial information included regulations.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial Responsibility statement statements in accordance with International Financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Union and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Regulation IAS.
The directors have elected to prepare the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or parent company financial statements in accordance with loss of the company and the undertakings included in the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice consolidation taken as a whole: United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the Under company law the directors must not approve the development and performance of the business and the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and position of the company and the undertakings included in fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a profit or loss of the company for that period.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and In preparing the parent company financial statements, the The Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, are directors are required to: fair, balanced and understandable and provide the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them information necessary to assess the groups performance, consistently: business model and strategy.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the board State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Nicholas Jennings disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Company Secretary Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 23 September 2014 company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, IAS 1 requires that directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information:
