Governance review Corporate governance report This report details the role and activities of the Board and Board and Committee membership and succession planning explains how corporate governance is operated throughout The remuneration policy for Directors and senior executives the Group.
The 12 Group policies which form part of the high level The UK Corporate Governance Code governance framework Direct Line Insurance Group plc the Company has complied In addition to the Matters Reserved, each Board Committee with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate has written terms of reference defining its role and the authority Governance Code 2012 the Code throughout the year, delegated to it.
You can find further details on the Board with the exception of the recommendation contained Committees in the Board Committees section from pages 61 in Provision E. 1.1 of the Code to the effect that the Senior to 70.
Independent Director the SID should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders.
This is to listen Board composition to their views to help develop a balanced understanding of As at the date of this Report, the Board comprises the the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Board Chairman, who was independent on his appointment to the received regular updates from the Companys corporate Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer brokers on the views of its institutional shareholders.
Major and six independent Non-Executive Directors.
All of the current shareholders have the opportunity to discuss any issues they Directors served throughout the reporting period, except wish to raise with the Chairman and the Chair of the for Sebastian James, who was appointed to the Board on Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, the Chairman has met 28 August 2014. certain major shareholders during the year and, through the You can find the names of the Directors as at the date of brokers, offered other major shareholders the opportunity to this report and their biographical information on pages 52 discuss any matters with him or the SID.
The Board is satisfied and 53. that, on the basis of reports from the Companys brokers and through the Chairman, it understands the views of the Mark Catton, who was nominated by RBS Group as a Companys major shareholders.
Non-Executive Director in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement between Direct Line Insurance Group Details of how the Company applied the Codes principles plc and RBS Group, resigned from the Board on 7 March and complied with its provisions are in this report and the 2014.
His resignation followed the sale by RBS Group on 27 Directors remuneration report.
You can find further information February 2014 of its interest in the Ordinary Shares of Direct on the Code on the Financial Reporting Councils website Line Insurance Group plc.
This excluded 4,185,643 shares, at www.
which were retained to satisfy long-term incentive plan awards Leadership previously granted by RBS Group to certain members of Direct Line Groups management.
These shares have since been The Board transferred to an RBS Group Employee Benefit Trust.
Since The Boards primary role is to organise and direct the Groups disposing of its shareholding, RBS Group no longer has a right affairs in a manner that is most likely to promote its long-term to nominate a director to the Board.
success for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The Board supervises the Groups operations, ensuring they are effectively Structure of the Board managed, that prudent controls are in place, and that risks The Board and its Committees have been established to are assessed and managed appropriately.
The Board sets the ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, Groups strategy and monitors managements performance independence, sector knowledge and diversity exists to and progress against the strategic aims and objectives.
enable the Directors to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The specific duties of the Board are set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board the Matters Reserved.
All Non-Executive Directors must be able to devote sufficient The Matters Reserved are reviewed annually by the Board time to the role to discharge their duties and responsibilities and contain those items that are specifically reserved for effectively.
The letters of appointment for the Chairman and consideration and approval by the Board.
Matters requiring each of the Non-Executive Directors set out the anticipated time approval by the Board include: commitment of at least three days per week for the Chairman and an average of three days per month for the Non-Executive The Groups strategic aims and objectives Directors.
The Nomination Committee reviews this time The annual operating and capital expenditure budgets commitment annually.
Corporate governance matters Capital structure, financial reporting and controls, including dividend policy The system of internal controls and risk management, including the Groups risk appetite statements Major capital projects, major investments and contracts that are either materially strategic or above the Chief Executive Officers delegated authority 55 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 55 Corporate governance report continued On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assessed Director or between the Directors duties to the Group and the independence, skills, knowledge and experience of the another person.
Non-Executive Directors as part of its annual review of each Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Board concluded that all of the must declare any conflict of interest that could interfere with current Non-Executive Directors were independent, continued their ability to act in the Groups best interests.
The Board to contribute effectively and demonstrated commitment to the has adopted procedures for ensuring its powers to authorise role.
The Nomination Committees work in the year resulted conflicts operate effectively.
in the appointment of Sebastian James as an additional NonExecutive Director.
It also resulted in certain changes to the The Board has given a number of authorisations in this manner.
membership of the Committees, which were announced in Notwithstanding such authorisation, the Board continues to September 2014.
You can find further details of these activities ensure that any actual conflict of interest or duty, should it and the Nomination Committees work in the year on pages arise, is dealt with appropriately.
This would usually involve 68 to 69. ensuring the Director does not participate in the relevant Board or Committee discussion or decision.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board has agreed role profiles for the Chairman, Mike For this purpose, the Company Secretary maintains a register Biggs, and the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes, which of conflicts, and of any authorisation of a conflict granted clearly define their respective roles and responsibilities.
The Board reviews this register regularly.
is to ensure no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Board activities during 2014 During 2014, the Boards specific areas of focus, challenge The Chairmans priority is leading the Board and ensuring and supervision included: its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officers priorities are managing the Group and delivering the Groups strategy Participating in developing and challenging the Groups and financial results.
strategic plan Senior Independent Director Overseeing the prudent management of the Groups capital, Glyn Jones is the Senior Independent Director SID.
His role ensuring that capital reserves remain robust, while enabling is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman, to serve as the return of capital to investors by way of special dividends an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary and to Approving and monitoring a comprehensive programme of be available to shareholders, should they have any concerns investment in technology, organisational restructuring and they cannot resolve through normal channels.
This programme aims to improve customer responsibilities also include evaluating the Chairmans experience, making it easier to do business with the Group, performance annually.
and deliver outstanding customer service Overseeing the management and reduction of the Groups Non-Executive Directors cost base The Non-Executive Directors objectively and constructively challenge management.
They also use their wider business Overseeing a review and streamlining of the Groups experience to help develop the Groups strategy.
governance framework, including reviewing and approving risk-based policies Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of three years.
They may serve two fixed terms of three years Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in restructuring his and, in appropriate circumstances, may be invited to serve a management team and appointing new senior executives further three year term.
The Nomination Committee nominates Considering strategic options for the Groups International the Directors for appointment.
The Board then approves the businesses, and subsequently authorising and monitoring appointments.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to election the proposed sale of the Groups International businesses.
or re-election annually at the Companys Annual General There was particular emphasis on obtaining fair outcomes Meeting AGM.
You can find the standard terms and for all stakeholders conditions of the appointments at www.
Encouraging management initiatives for cultural transformation Information and support All Directors have access to the assistance and advice of the Monitoring the progress of the complex programme of Company Secretary.
The Board is satisfied that it receives migrating IT systems and telephony from RBS Group to information in a timely manner and of an appropriate quality to new Direct Line Group platforms, networks and data centres enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
Directors may Encouraging the relaunch of the Direct Line brand and seek external independent professional advice at the challenging the related brand and customer-service Companys expense if they require it to discharge their duties.
propositions Conflicts of interest Overseeing the Groups regulatory relationships and In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys preparations for the forthcoming implementation of Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise a matter in Solvency II relation to which there is, or may be, a conflict between the Groups interests and the direct or indirect interests of a 56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review Meetings Visits by Non-Executive Directors to operational business The Board held 11 scheduled meetings in 2014 and nine units to meet the management teams and better understand additional meetings.
The additional meetings were ad hoc the way the business operates.
These included visits to the or Board sub-committee meetings to consider specific matters, Claims, Technical and Large Loss, Customer Relations and for example, the proposed sale of the Groups International Counter Fraud teams in Glasgow, and visits to several of businesses.
The Board also held its annual strategy day in the UK Assistance Accident Repair Centres Limited sites June 2014.
One of the scheduled Board meetings was held Internal training workshops on Solvency II, including capital in Glasgow as part of a Board site visit.
and catastrophe modelling, Internal Model Approval Process IMAP submission requirements, Standard Formula The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings.
At the calculation, profit and loss attribution, diversification and Boards discretion, senior executives and external advisers dependencies correlations were invited to attend Board meetings and present on business developments and governance issues.
The Company Secretary presented a regular corporate governance update to the Board The table below sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings The Groups brokers and financial advisers presented in 2014: quarterly industry and market updates to the Board Scheduled Percentage The Investor Relations team reported regularly to the 1 meetings attendance Board on the Groups relationship with institutional Chairman investors and analysts Mike Biggs 11 of 11 100% Direct Line Groups approach to diversity Senior Independent Director The Board carefully considered the diversity of its members Glyn Jones 11 of 11 100% from a variety of perspectives.
It also sought to ensure that Non-Executive Directors Directors had the relevant range of knowledge, skills, 2 Mark Catton 2 of 2 100% experience and, where necessary, independence to help the Jane Hanson 11 of 11 100% Group deliver its strategy.
3 Sebastian James 3 of 4 75% The Company believes in the merits of diversity.
Of the Andrew Palmer 11 of 11 100% Boards nine members, three are women.
However, while Clare Thompson 11 of 11 100% the Board will take care to consider diversity when selecting Priscilla Vacassin 11 of 11 100% new members, it is committed to appointing the most Executive Directors appropriate candidate.
Paul Geddes 11 of 11 100% The Nomination Committees terms of reference state that due John Reizenstein 10 of 11 91% regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, should be given in selecting candidates for the Board.
Board induction, resources and training The Board is committed to training and developing all Directors The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee also considers and employees.
The Company Secretary is responsible this matter in the context of ensuring the Groups talent pipeline for helping the Chairman regularly review and organise remains diverse to meet future requirements.
The Group appropriate training for the Directors and maintains an provides mentoring schemes for high-potential candidates and annual training agenda for the Board and its Committees.
associated training and development programmes.
You can find numerical data relating to the gender diversity of the On appointment, Sebastian James commenced a tailored Board, senior managers and employees on pages 34 and 35. induction programme, comprising 16 sessions.
The programme was designed to provide an understanding of the Board effectiveness review Groups businesses, strategic and transformational priorities, In 2013, an independent external consultant performed and regulatory and governance frameworks, capital and financial facilitated the Boards first effectiveness review.
In 2014, the management, and risk framework.
Board chose to conduct its effectiveness review in-house.
The Company Secretary designed and coordinated the process.
The main Board training and development activities in the year This involved agreeing a structured questionnaire with the under review included the following: Chairman and members of the Board, distributing it to Training on specific topics, including: competition law, stakeholders, collating responses and preparing reports.
accounting for investments and anti-bribery and corruption The Board and each of its Committees reviewed and discussed these reports.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Mark Catton resigned as a Director of the Board on 7 March 2014.
Sebastian James was appointed as a Director of the Board on 28 August 2014.
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued The questionnaire encouraged respondents to comment on aspects Governance framework and structure perceived as working well in the 2013 review and areas thought The Board is responsible for ensuring an appropriate system of to require improvement.
Relating to the Board, its Committees and governance is in place throughout the Group.
This includes a its individual directors, the questionnaire focused on: robust system of internal controls and a sound Risk Management framework.
The Groups Governance Framework is detailed in The flow of information, including the quality and sufficiency the High Level Control and System of Governance document.
of reports, management information and training The Board reviews this document annually.
In addition to this The behaviour of, and interaction between, the Board or document, the core elements are: Committee and management, including the proportion of The Enterprise-wide Risk Management ERM strategy time spent on strategic matters, the degree of challenge by and framework, which sets out the Groups robust risk Non-Executive Directors, the Boards culture and composition management approach and the ownership and oversight Administration, including the number and frequency of of risks meetings, the volume of papers, the quality of systems The Executive Governance Framework, which outlines how and processes for, Board and Committee support each business function is governed and details the The Chairman discussed the outcome of the effectiveness delegation of authority to Executive Committee members review with the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief The Group Policy Framework, which comprises a set of Executive Officer, providing them with feedback on their policies that are required to be approved by the Board and performance and contributions.
Feedback on the Chairmans are underpinned by Minimum Standards which translate the performance was provided by the Senior Independent policies into requirements that are implemented throughout Director, with input from his fellow Non-Executive Directors.
the Group Based on responses to the structured questionnaire and the The diagram below summarises the split of responsibilities for the resulting reports, the Directors are satisfied that the Board and different components of the Groups Governance Framework.
its Committees operated effectively during 2014.
The Directors are also satisfied that significant progress was made regarding areas identified in 2013 as requiring improvement.
The Board and its Committees agreed an action plan for further improvement, which will be pursued in 2015.
Board Board Board Matters Reserved High Level Control and System approves High Level Governance and Committee of Governance document framework, risk appetite and terms of reference Group Policies are set by the Board, following review by the Risk appetite Board Risk Committee, for implementation by the Executive.
Policies are drafted by Executive Group Policies policy owners.
Board Risk Board Risk Committee Committee Enterprise-wide Risk approves Management framework is approved by the Board Risk Committee, following review ERM strategy and framework by the Risk Management Committee.
Executives Risk Management Committee Developed by the Executives within approve the framework approved by the Board.
Minimum Standards are reviewed by the Groups Policy and Minimum Standard owners Executive Governance Framework Group Minimum Standards review forum.
The Executive Governance Framework and Minimum Standards are approved by Executives within the Risk Management Committee.
Business unit and operational area implementation 58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review Board of Directors Mike Biggs Chairman Audit Committee Board Risk Corporate Social Investment Nomination Remuneration Andrew Palmer Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Chair Jane Hanson Committee Glyn Jones Mike Biggs Priscilla Vacassin Chair Clare Thompson Chair Chair Chair Chair Board Committees Executive Committee The Board has established a number of Committees to help The Executive Committee is the principal management meet its responsibilities.
Each Committee plays a vital role in committee that assists the Chief Executive Officer in the day-toensuring the Board operates efficiently and considers matters day management of the Group.
It supports him in setting appropriately.
The diagram above details the names of the performance targets, implementing the Groups strategy and Board Committees and the Chairs.
direction as determined by the Board, and monitoring key objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Groups Each Board Committee has separate terms of reference.
It also helps him evaluate new business initiatives The Board reviews these annually.
You can find details of and opportunities, and receives and considers reports on the composition, attendance, role and focus of each operational matters, where these are material to the Group Committee on pages 61 to 70. or have cross-company implications.
Chief Executive Officer The diagram below depicts the  Although the Board is ultimately responsible for the success framework.
of the Company, Paul Geddes, the Chief Executive Officer, has received delegated authority from the Board to manage Accountability the day-to-day operations of the Group and deliver its Financial and business reporting strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for providing shareholders with a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys In turn, Paul Geddes has cascaded certain elements of his position and prospects.
The Board is also responsible for the delegated authority to the members of the Executive maintenance of adequate accounting records and ensuring Committee.
These delegations help ensure that senior compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
executives are accountable and responsible for managing their respective businesses and functions.
The delegations also An explanation from the Directors of their responsibility for involve ensuring the senior executives have the appropriate preparing the financial statements is set out in the statement financial, and other, authorities needed to manage those of Directors responsibilities on page 97.
The statement by business areas.
the Companys external Auditor explaining their responsibilities is on page 102.
Paul Geddes Chief Executive officer Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Chief Risk officer Chief Financial General Counsel Chief Information Human Resources Commercial Personal Lines Claims and Jos Vazquez officer Humphrey officer Director Jon Mike HolidayBusiness Services John Reizenstein Tomlinson Angela Morrison Simon Linares Greenwood Williams Steve Maddock Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued The Board meets the specific responsibilities that the Code The Directors know that any system of internal control is places on it as follows: designed to manage, not eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, An explanation of how the Company generates value over not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or the long term is included within the business model on page financial loss.
8 and the strategy for delivering Company objectives on page 16 On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Its How the Board has concluded that the business remains a monitoring covers all material controls.
Principally, it reviews going concern is discussed on page 96 and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit The arrangements established by the Board for the function and external Auditors.
This enables it to consider how application of risk management and internal control to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Groups risk strategy.
principles are detailed below The Committee did not identify or report any major failings or weaknesses to the Board in 2014.
The Board has delegated oversight of the management of the relationship with the Companys external Auditor to the Remuneration Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee report on pages 61 The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee to 63 provides details of its role, activities and relationship responsibility for the remuneration arrangements of the Groups with the internal and external Auditors Executive Directors and for overseeing senior executives remuneration.
Find out more information on the remuneration Risk management and internal control system arrangements and policy in the Directors remuneration report The Board oversees the Groups risk management and internal control system.
It has complied with the Code by establishing on page 71. a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing Relations with shareholders the significant risks the Group faces.
This process includes risks The Board believes that actively engaging with the Companys arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
shareholders is fundamental to the Groups business.
An active The Group operates a three lines of defence model, further dialogue and ongoing engagement with investors is vital to details of which can be found in the Risk Management section keeping up-to-date on opinions.
It also provides the Company with on pages 28 to 31. the opportunity to address any questions and concerns proactively.
During the year, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the The Executive Directors meet frequently with investors and ensure Groups risk management and internal controls.
The Groups shareholder concerns are communicated to the Board.
The assessment process included output from a system for reporting Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive on all significant risks that stand in the way of the Groups Directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders objectives.
The system reported on the nature and effectiveness at their request.
This gives the Directors the opportunity to discuss of the controls and other management processes that manage governance and strategy with shareholders.
The system also sets risk appetites for key The Companys Investor Relations team facilitates the Directors categories of quantifiable risk.
Additionally, it encompassed ongoing dialogue with institutional investors, fund managers risk owners self-assessment of control throughout the Group.
The Board receives regular updates on investor The second and third lines of defence independently challenge relations, including feedback from analysts.
Furthermore, Group Audit has undertaken corporate brokers also regularly attend Board meetings to reviews in the financial year to support this.
inform the Board of shareholder views.
The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews significant risks, Annual General Meeting their potential impact on the Groups financial position, The Board views the Companys AGM as a good opportunity variations from agreed risk appetites, and the actions taken for private shareholders to communicate directly with the to manage those risks.
All shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM.
Internal systems of control All Directors attended the AGM in 2014.
The Board has established a management structure with The Chief Executive Officer presents the Groups results before defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
the Chairman proposes the AGMs formal business.
All This control framework cascades through the divisions and shareholders are encouraged to ask questions relating to the central functions, detailing clear responsibilities for ensuring meetings business.
The Chairman, the Committee Chairs appropriate controls are in place at an operational level.
This and the remaining Directors are also available at the meeting.
includes controls relating to the financial reporting process.
The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups operations.
It brings a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance frameworks and processes.
60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
