Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 The Executive Committee is chaired by Paul Geddes and, in addition 5 Angela Morrison, Chief Information Officer joined 2010 to John Reizenstein, comprises the following individuals: Experience and qualifications Angela was previously Chief Information Officer at J Sainsburys and 1 Jonathan Greenwood, Managing Director of Commercial a member of their Operating Board.
She previously worked for ASDA joined 2000 Wal-Mart where she held a number of roles including European Experience and qualifications Strategy Director, Chief Information Officer through the ASDA Jonathan joined the Group in 2000 as Product and Pricing Director Wal-Mart integration and e-Commerce Director which included for UK partnerships, which included Tesco, BMW and Nationwide establishing ASDAs home grocery business.
Angela holds a degree Building Society.
Following the acquisition of Churchill, Jonathan in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Bristol.
became Commercial Director and then Managing Director of the Groups household and life businesses.
Jonathan was appointed 6 Humphrey Tomlinson, General Counsel joined 2011 Managing Director of Commercial in 2009.
Experience and qualifications Humphrey was previously Group Legal Director at RSA.
He is a 2 Mike Holliday-Williams, Managing Director of Personal Lines solicitor with over 25 years experience, including advising on joined May 2014 corporate and commercial matters, a wide range of corporate Experience and qualifications transactions in the UK and internationally, legal risk management and Mike was previously Chief Executive Officer of RSA Groups corporate governance issues.
Prior to RSA, he worked at City law firm Scandinavian businesses, Codan A S and Trygg-Hansa.
He is a graduate of the University of Oxford.
joining RSA, Mike worked in the energy, telecoms and retail sectors, beginning his career at WH Smith Limited, before moving to various 7 Jos Vazquez, Chief Risk Officer joined 2012 Centrica-owned businesses, including British Gas and Onetel.
He has Experience and qualifications also served as Managing Director of MORETH N Limited and holds Jos was previously Global Chief Risk Officer at HSBC Insurance.
an EMBA from Ashridge Business School.
Prior to joining HSBC, Jos held senior actuarial roles at Zurich Insurance and also worked as a consultant with KPMG in London.
3 Simon Linares, Human Resources Director joined September 2014 Jos is a Mathematics graduate from Brunel University and a Fellow Experience and qualifications of the Institute of Actuaries.
Simon was Group HR Director at ITV and before that Human Resources Director of Telefonicas digital businesses globally.
Prior to that, Simon was Group Human Resource Director of O2s European businesses, having had previous success in senior HR roles with Diageo.
4 Steve Maddock, Managing Director of Claims and Business Services joined 2010 Experience and qualifications Steve was previously Director of Strategic and Technical Claims at RSA, a role he assumed in 2004.
He has over 20 years insurance industry experience, including roles as Director of Claims and Customer Service at Capita and Director of Operations at AMP.
Steve holds an MBA from the University of Reading and is Chairman of the Motor Insurers Bureau.
54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
