Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 1 Mike Biggs 62, Chairman of the Board External appointments N and R appointed April 2012 John is a trustee and director of Farm Africa and is an alternate representative of the Association of British Insurers on the Panel Biography on Takeovers and Mergers.
Mike is also Chair of the Nomination Committee.
He has over 40 years experience of the UK and international financial services sector.
4 Glyn Jones 62, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director He is a respected figure in the insurance industry and is well regarded A, I, N and appointed September 2012 by City investors.
Biography Mike was previously Chairman of Resolution Limited, the FTSE 100 UK Glyn is Chair of the Investment Committee.
He has undertaken a life assurance business, and has acted as Chief Executive Officer and number of senior roles within the financial services industry and, as Group Finance Director of Resolution plc.
He was previously Group a former Chief Executive Officer in the asset management industry, Finance Director of Aviva plc.
he also understands the City and shareholders well.
He has a Masters degree in History from the University of Oxford and Glyn was Chairman of Towry Holdings Limited between 2006 and is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 2011 and Chairman of Aspen UK from 2007 to 2014.
served as Chairman of Hermes Fund Managers from 2008 to 2011 External appointments and was Chairman of its sister company, BT Pension Scheme None Management, for a part of this period.
Glyn was Chief Executive Officer of the independent investment group, Thames River Capital, 2 Paul Geddes 45, Chief Executive Officer appointed August from 2005 to 2006.
From 2000, he served as Chief Executive C 2009 Officer of Gartmore Investment Management in the UK for four years.
Before this, Glyn was Chief Executive Officer of Coutts NatWest Biography Group and Coutts Group, having joined in 1997.
Glyn joined Paul is Chief Executive Officer.
His experience in leading one of the Standard Chartered in Hong Kong in 1990 where he became the UKs largest retail banking businesses during a challenging period for General Manager of Global Private Banking.
He was a consulting the industry and improving its customer and financial performance partner with Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte Haskins & Sells Management against peers singled him out in 2009 as the Chief Executive able Consultants from 1981 to 1990.
He is a graduate of the University to lead the turnaround of Direct Line Group and its divestment from of Cambridge and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants RBS Group.
He was the Chief Executive Officer of RBS Groups mainland UK retail External appointments banking business, having joined in 2004 as Managing Director with Glyn is Chairman of Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited, a New York responsibility for products and marketing.
Before joining RBS Group, listed specialty lines insurer.
He is also Chairman of Aldermore Group Paul held a number of senior roles in multi-channel retailing in the GUS plc and its subsidiary Aldermore Bank plc.
Paul started his career in marketing, with UK and European roles at Procter & Gamble.
Paul read Philosophy, 5 Jane Hanson 47, Non-Executive Director appointed December Politics and Economics at the University of Oxford.
He is a Fellow A, B, C, I and 2011 of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
Biography External appointments Jane is Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
She has extensive Paul is a member of the Association of British Insurers Board, a experience of risk management, corporate governance and internal member of the Financial Ombudsman Services insurance industry control.
She also has extensive experience of developing and steering group, and a member of the Financial Conduct Authoritys monitoring customer frameworks.
She spent 12 years with KPMG, where she worked in the financial 3 John Reizenstein 58, Chief Financial Officer appointed sector, becoming the Director responsible for delivery of corporate December 2010 governance, internal audit and risk management services in the North of England.
Jane has also held executive roles including Director of Biography Audit, and Risk and Governance Director at Avivas UK Life business.
John is an experienced Chief Financial Officer and former banker with She is a graduate of the University of York with a degree in Music and is extensive City and financial services experience.
a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
John was previously an Executive Director at the Co-operative Insurance Society, CIS General Insurance and The Co-operative Bank.
He was Chief Financial Officer of these entities between 2003 and 2007, and subsequently Managing Director, Corporate and Markets.
Prior to that, John spent more than 20 years in investment banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
He is an Economics graduate of the University of Cambridge.
52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review 6 7 8 9 External appointments 8 Clare Thompson 60, Non-Executive Director appointed A, B, C, I and Jane is Chair of Reclaim Fund Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of September 2012 Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited.
She is also an Independent Biography Member of the Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd. Clare is Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
She has her own financial sector consulting business, delivering audit, She brings with her extensive experience and knowledge gained from enterprise risk management and corporate governance advisory and roles across the professional services industry, including as Lead Audit consulting services.
Partner at PwC, where she guided companies through change and acted as an adviser to insurance companies.
She gained significant 6 Sebastian James 48, Non-Executive Director appointed August experience of both general and life insurance in this role.
C, R and 2014 Clare was a partner at PwC from 1988 to 2011.
During her 23 years Biography as a partner at PwC, she held several senior and high profile roles, Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and particularly within the insurance sector.
She is a graduate of the has held a number of senior strategic and operational positions in University of York with a degree in Mathematics and is a Fellow the retail, consulting and insurance sectors.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Sebastian was Group Chief Executive of Dixons Retail plc from 2012 External appointments until its merger with Carphone Warehouse Group plc on 6 August Clare is a Non-Executive member of the Partnership Board of Miller 2014.
Before this, Sebastian was Chief Executive Officer of Synergy Insurance Services LLP and is a Trustee and Treasurer of the Disasters Insurance Services Limited, a private equity backed insurance Emergency Committee.
She is also a Director of Retail Charity Bonds plc.
company, and was previously Strategy Director at Mothercare plc.
He began his career at The Boston Consulting Group, having graduated 9 Priscilla Vacassin 57, Non-Executive Director appointed B, R and from the University of Oxford and completed an MBA at INSEAD.
September 2012 External appointments Biography Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and is also Priscilla is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
She has great a Trustee of the charities Save the Children and Tablets for Schools.
knowledge and experience of developing organisational values, and creating the leadership, succession, development and remuneration 7 Andrew Palmer 61, Non-Executive Director appointed March structures required to support corporate strategy.
She has worked both A, B, I, N, R and 2011 as a practitioner and as an adviser and therefore understands the complexity around remuneration in both technical and market terms.
Biography Andrew is Chair of the Audit Committee.
He has undertaken a number Priscilla was most recently Group Human Resources Director at of senior roles within the financial services and insurance industries.
In Prudential plc and a Non-Executive Director at the Ministry of Defence.
addition, he has insight into corporate governance developments and Priscilla has previously held senior human resources positions across a best practice in financial reporting through his membership of the number of financial services and customer facing industries, including Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
roles at Abbey National plc, where she was Executive Director, Human Resources: BAA plc, where she was Group Human Resources Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, where he was the Director: and Kingfisher plc.
She graduated in Law from the University Group Finance Director, in 2009.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of of North East London.
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments External appointments Priscilla has her own search and consultancy business.
Andrew is a Trustee of the Royal School of Needlework, a Trustee and Treasurer of Cancer Research UK and a Non-Executive Director of Royal Key: London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
He is also a member of the A Audit Committee Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
B Board Risk Committee C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee I Investment Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Independent Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
