Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Introduction to the Audit Committee Report I am pleased to report on the activities of the Committee for 2014, a year that has seen a number of regulatory changes which have reinforced the role of the Committee, on behalf of the Board, in ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
In this report we have detailed how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities in relation to the three areas highlighted in the Code, namely: Addressing significant financial statement reporting issues: Addressing external audit effectiveness: and Appointing the external auditor and safeguards on their independence.
In addition, set out below are details of the processes we have in place to monitor the provision of non-audit services by and objectivity of our relationship with the external auditor and the role played by internal audit to ensure we have effective control processes.
We also reviewed the Committees own terms of reference.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions relating to the role of the Committee.
Andrew Cripps Chairman of the Audit Committee 21 May 2014 Role and Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and other announcements of financial results published by the Group: and reviewing and challenging as necessary the judgements and actions of management in relation to the financial statements.
The Committee additionally reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control and financial risk management systems.
The Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and, on behalf of the Board, manages the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor as well as monitoring their performance and independence.
The Group supports an independent and confidential whistle blowing procedure and the Committee monitors the operation of this facility.
Following publication of the revised version of the Code, which applies to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees Terms of Reference have been amended to reflect this requirement and can be found in the Investor Relations Investor Centre Legal Documents section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
25 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Membership The Committee is chaired by Andrew Cripps and also comprises Lord Bilimoria and Stewart Gilliland, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Andrew Cripps, who is a Chartered Accountant, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
He has substantial and recent audit committee experience and ensures that the Committee remains abreast of accounting and regulatory developments.
Lord Bilimoria is also a Chartered Accountant and Stewart Gilliland has substantial relevant commercial experience.
The Committee has access to the Groups finance team, to its internal audit function and to its external auditors and can seek further professional training and advice, at the Groups cost, as appropriate.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 18 and 19 and their remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend committee meetings, however, during the year, Charles Wilson, Chief Executive, Jonathan Prentis, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG, the External Auditor, were invited to attend meetings.
The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the External Auditor without management being present.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year The Committee met five times during the year ended 28 March 2014.
Members attendance record was as follows: Attendance Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance Andrew Cripps Chairman 5 100% Lord Bilimoria 5 100% Stewart Gilliland 5 100% Since 28 March 2014, the Audit Committee has met three times.
In respect of the year to 28 March 2014, the Committee reviewed the Preliminary Results Announcement for the period to 29 March 2013, the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Results Announcement for the period to 13 September 2013 and Interim Management Statements in the twelve weeks to 29 March 2013, the twelve weeks to 21 June 2013, the twelve weeks to 13 September 2013 and the sixteen weeks to 3 January 2014 and made recommendations to the Board.
In carrying out these reviews, the Committee considered: Whether the Group had applied appropriate accounting policies and practices both on a year on year basis and across the Group: the significant areas in which judgement had been applied in preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out on pages 62 to 66. reports from the Group Finance Director and the External Auditor: the clarity and completeness of disclosures and compliance with relevant financial reporting standards and corporate governance and regulatory requirements: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also: approved the internal and External Auditors work plans for the Group: considered periodic reports from the Head of Internal Audit on their work: reviewed the External Auditors independence and objectivity, the effectiveness of the audit process, the re-appointment of the External Auditor and approved the External Auditors remuneration: approved the appropriateness of the External Auditor providing non-audit services and related fees: and recommended revisions to the Board in the Committees terms of reference.
26 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Significant Judgemental Areas The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts for the year to 28 March 2014 and how these were addressed are outlined below.
In addition, each of these areas received particular focus from the External Auditor, who provided detailed analysis and assessment of the matters in their report to the Committee.
Acquisition Accounting in relation to Makro Holding Limited and its Subsidiaries Makro On 4 July 2012 the Group acquired the share capital of Makro.
The transaction was subject to approval by the competition authorities and full clearance was not received from the Competition Commission until 19 April 2013.
Makro was then consolidated in the Groups results from that date.
We are required to fair value Makros assets and liabilities at the date of consolidation.
There is an exercise of judgement involved in identifying and valuing the consideration and assets acquired in a business combination.
The Committee assessed the processes used in the identification and valuation of acquired assets and liabilities including the reasonableness of assumptions used.
The Committee also assessed the allocation of consideration between goodwill and identified intangible assets.
Following this review, we were satisfied that the judgements exercised were appropriate.
Property Provisions The Group has recorded property provisions in the sum of 25.5m as outlined in note 20 to the financial statements, which, by their nature, are uncertain and highly judgemental.
We scrutinised the key elements of judgement with management to assure ourselves as to the adequacy and appropriateness of the provisions.
As part of the year end audit, KPMG considered the nature of the provisions, the potential outcomes, any developments relating to specific claims, and the prior history of lease obligations, provisions and claims in order to assess whether the provisions recorded were appropriate.
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Accounting The Group operates a variety of post employment benefit arrangements, as outlined in note 19 to the financial statements.
Although the defined benefit scheme is closed to future accrual it is sensitive to changes in actuarial assumptions.
We challenged the valuations prepared by the Groups pension advisors and, following discussions with management, were satisfied that the judgements exercised were appropriate.
During their audit, KPMG evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used by the Groups actuarial advisors and assessed whether the assumptions made were appropriate and not materially different from external benchmarks.
KPMG reported to us on the assumptions used and with the way that our schemes had been accounted for.
Following discussions with the External Auditor, and the deliberations set out above, we were satisfied that the financial statements dealt appropriately with each of the areas of significant judgement.
The External Auditor also reported to the Committee on any misstatements that they had found in the course of their work.
The Committee noted their work and were satisfied that no material amounts required adjustment.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The coordination and review of Group wide contributions into the Annual Report and Accounts follows a well established and documented process, which is performed in parallel with the formal process undertaken by the External Auditor.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by management in the preparation of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it met the requirements of the Code and our Terms of Reference.
This, and our own scrutiny of the document, enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Internal Controls The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and financial risk management systems.
Within this, the Committee continued to focus on the control environment in the evolving business in India.
In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee reviewed reports issued by both Internal Audit and the External Auditor and held regular discussions with the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the External Auditor.
27 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function including its focus, plans, activities and resources.
At the beginning of the financial year, the Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit plan for the year having considered the principal areas of risk in the business and the adequacy of staffing levels and expertise within the function.
During the year, the Committee received regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit summarising findings from the work of Internal Audit and the responses from management to deal with the findings.
The Committee monitors progress on the implementation of the action plans on significant findings to ensure these are completed satisfactorily.
External Audit It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the performance, objectivity and independence of the External Auditor.
In February 2014, we met with KMPG, the External Auditor, to agree the audit plan for the year, highlighting the key financial statement and audit risks, to ensure that the audit was appropriately focused.
In addition, KPMGs letter of engagement was reviewed by the Committee in advance of the audit.
In May 2014, in advance of the finalisation of the Groups financial statements, we received a report from KPMG on their key audit findings, which included the key areas of risk and significant judgements referred to above, and discussed the issues with them in order for the Committee to form a judgement on the financial statements.
In addition, we considered the Letter of Representation that the External Auditor requires from the Board.
At least once a year, we meet with the External Auditor privately to discuss any matters they may wish to raise without management being present.
Assessment of Effectiveness of External Audit The Committee reviewed KPMGs performance and on-going independence, taking into account input from management, consideration of responses to questions from the Committee and the audit findings reported to the Committee.
As part of the process, the Committee reviewed the feedback from the Public Report on the Audit Quality Inspection of KPMG, issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2013.
Based on all of this information the Committee concluded that the external audit process was operating effectively and KPMG continued to prove effective in its role as External Auditor.
The current External Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, were first appointed in 2005 and the external audit has not been tendered since then.
The Committee, does however review the relationship the Company has with KPMG annually.
The External Auditor is required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
The most recent change occurred in the year to March 2011 and, therefore, partner rotation is due after the March 2015 audit.
The Committee, having completed the activities outlined, remains confident that the effectiveness and independence of the External Auditor is not impaired in any way.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditor.
For the year ended 28 March 2014, the Committee was satisfied with the performance, objectivity and independence of KPMG as the External Auditor.
KPMG LLP has requested that it be appointed as the Companys External Auditor, following a decision to wind down KPMG Audit Plc as part of a KPMG internal reorganisation.
Pursuant to section 519 of the Companies Act 2006, KPMG Audit Plc have informed the Company that they are not seeking reappointment and have provided a statutory statement of circumstances upon ceasing to hold office.
The Committee, having satisfied itself as to the appropriateness of this change, has therefore recommended to the Board and to shareholders that KPMG LLP should be appointed as the Companys External Auditor at the AGM on 9 July 2014.
The Committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and independence of the External Auditor.
In doing so, the Committee will consider a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
We will comply with FRCs Guidance to Audit Committees issued in September 2012 and the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market for FTSE 350 companies, which is expected to come into effect from 1 October 2014.
Under the proposed transitional arrangements, the Committee expects a formal tender process to be held no later than two years from the end of the current audit engagement partner rotation period.
As partner rotation is due after the March 2015 audit, a tender process is expected to be held no later than March 2017.
28 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Non-Audit Services The Committee recognises the potential for any non-audit services to compromise auditor independence and the External Auditor is not permitted to conduct any assignment which may affect objectivity or independence.
Subject to this, where it is helpful to the Group for KPMG to provide assistance, the Committee monitor the services provided and fees charged.
Non-audit work comprised small assignments to assist with tax compliance and other matters for aggregate fees of 144,000.
The Committee believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work being conducted by the External Auditor and that it is not of a nature which would affect their independence as External Auditor.
Whistleblowing Programme The Group has a whistleblowing programme in all of its operations whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place, or if health and safety standards are being compromised.
Additional areas that are addressed by this procedure include criminal activities, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
The programme allows employees to raise their concerns with their line manager or, if that is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
An externally facilitated confidential helpline and confidential email facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
Any concerns are investigated on a confidential basis by the Human Resources Department and or the Company Secretary and feedback is given to the person making the complaint as appropriate via the confidential email facility.
An official written record is kept of each stage of the procedure and reported to the Committee.
Committee Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed on an annual basis by both the Board and the Committee itself.
Both reviews concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively and efficiently.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2014.
Andrew Cripps Chairman of the Audit Committee 29
