Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Introduction to the Nomination Committee Report I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee for 2014.
This Report provides shareholders with an overview of the activities carried out during the year.
Last year we appointed Helena Andreas as a new Non-Executive Director.
This year we made no changes to the Board, although we did renew the terms of three of our Non-Executive Directors: Lord Bilimoria, Andrew Cripps and Stewart Gilliland.
This was our primary focus, along with reviewing the terms of reference of the Committee.
Richard Rose Chairman of the Nomination Committee 21 May 2014 Role and Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee has defined Terms of Reference which were reviewed in October 2013 and can be found in the Investor Relations Legal Documents section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of additional Directors and for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and the membership of Board committees to ensure that they have the necessary range of competencies, knowledge and experience required for the direction and oversight of the business.
Membership The Committee is chaired by Richard Rose, the Chairman, and also comprises Lord Bilimoria and Andrew Cripps, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Rose does not chair the Committee when it is dealing with his re-appointment or the evaluation of his performance and no member of the Committee participates in discussions concerning or votes on his own re-appointment or evaluation of his own performance.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 18 and 19.
Their remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend committee meetings, however, during the year, Charles Wilson Chief Executive and Stewart Gilliland Non-Executive Director were invited to attend meetings.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year The Nomination Committee met twice during the year ended 28 March 2014 to: Review the Committees report within the 2013 Annual Report and recommend approval to the Board: Review the size, structure and composition of the Board: Recommend to the Board that Lord Bilimoria, Andrew Cripps and Stewart Gilliland be re-appointed as Non-Executive Directors: and Review and recommend to the Board the revised Terms of Reference of the Committee.
30 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance As part of its review of the composition of the Board, the Committee focused in particular on the performance and independence of each of Lord Bilimoria, Andrew Cripps and Stewart Gilliland as the appointment of each of these Non-Executives was due for renewal and each of them had confirmed his willingness to be re-appointed.
Following a rigorous review, the Committee concluded that, notwithstanding Lord Bilimorias and Andrew Cripps length of service six years as Non-Executive Directors of the Company, both Lord Bilimoria and Andrew Cripps were still independent in character and judgement.
The same judgement was reached in respect of Stewart Gilliland.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that each of these independent Non-Executive Directors be proposed for re-appointment as a director of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Neither Lord Bilimoria nor Andrew Cripps participated in the Committees evaluation of his own performance or the recommendation relating to his re-appointment.
Members attendance record was as follows: Attendance Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance Richard Rose Chairman 2 100% Lord Bilimoria 2 100% Andrew Cripps 2 100% Board Composition Succession The Board plans for its own succession, with the support of the Committee.
The Committee remains focused, on behalf of the Board, on Board succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
As part of this planning, the Board has made valuable additions in terms of strength, skills and experience to progressively refresh the Board.
By way of example, since June 2009, four Directors have joined the Board and two Directors have left the Board.
The Committee aims to ensure that: the succession pipeline for senior executive and business critical roles in the organisation is adequate: processes are in place to identify potential successors and manage succession activity: there is a structured approach to developing and preparing possible successors: and processes are in place to identify at risk posts.
Diversity We value diversity in the Boardroom and see it as a wider topic than simply gender.
Our Directors come from different backgrounds and each brings unique capabilities and perspectives to our discussions, with a wide range of professional and geographical backgrounds.
We are committed to maintaining a diverse Board.
Appointments to the Board and throughout the Group will continue to be made on merit and overall suitability for the role against objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity including skills, experience and gender.
The Committee at the present time has not determined to set targets for the number of women on the Board.
Statistical employment data for the Group can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 10.
Board Composition As in previous years, as part of the Companys annual evaluation of Board performance, all Directors were consulted on the composition of the Board, and were of the view that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of skills and experience, but it is not so large as to be unwieldy.
The Board contains a balance of executive and non-executive directors such that no individual, or group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
As such, no additional appointment is considered necessary at the present time.
Committee Performance and Effectiveness The Board additionally undertook an annual review of the Committees performance and effectiveness and concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2014.
Richard Rose Chairman of the Nomination Committee 31
