16310Edinburgh pp20 23 16310Edinburgh pp20 2329 05 201414:17Page21 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 Committee Composition and Role The Audit Committee comprises all the Directors with the exception of Jim Pettigrew, under my chairmanship.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its authority, meetings, duties and reporting.
These were updated during the year, to ensure good practice and compliance with the latest AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at the registered office of the Company or viewed on the Managers website.
Audit Committee Duties include: consideration of the integrity of the annual and half-yearly financial reports prepared by the Manager, the appropriateness of the accounting policies applied and any financial judgements and key assumptions, together with ensuring compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: at the Boards request, advising it on whether the Committee believes the annual financial report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control systems and risk management systems, including reports received on the operational controls of the Companys service providers and the Managers whistleblowing arrangements: consideration of the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance departments, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Managers internal audit and reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: and management of the relationship with the external auditor, including evaluation of their reports and the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of their audit, as well as making recommendations to the Board in respect of their appointment, re-appointment and removal and for the terms of their audit engagement.
Audit Committee Activities The Committee meets three times a year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls, accounting policies and, if applicable, the contents of the half-yearly and annual financial reports.
In addition, the Committee reviews the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services provided to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements as well as risk management processes.
Representatives of the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Departments attend at least two meetings each year.
Representatives of the auditor, KPMG Audit plc, attend the Committee meeting at which the draft half-yearly and annual financial report are reviewed and are given the opportunity to speak to Committee members in the absence of representatives of the Manager.
The audit programme and timetable are drawn up and agreed with the auditor in advance of the end of the financial period and matters for audit focus are discussed and agreed.
The auditor ensures that these matters are given particular attention during the audit process and reports on them, and other matters as required, in their report to the Committee.
This report, together with reports from the Manager, and the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance Departments, form the basis of the Committees consideration and discussions with the various parties, prior to approval and signature of the financial statements.
16310Edinburgh pp20 23 16310Edinburgh pp20 2329 05 201414:17Page22 22 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Key Areas of Consideration For the year end, the accounting matters that were identified for specific consideration by the Committee follow: SIGNIFICANT AREA HOW ADDRESSED Accuracy of the portfolio Actively traded listed investments are valued using stock exchange valuation, with emphasis on prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
Investments that are the investments held at unlisted or not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques Directors valuation.
to determine their fair value.
This is set out in accounting policies note 1 c v. All such valuations are carefully considered by the Managers pricing committee and the Committee.
Proof of existence of portfolio The Manager and the Auditor both confirmed that the holdings holdings.
shown in the accounting records agreed with the Custodian records.
Recognition of investment Investment income is recognised in accordance with accounting income, with emphasis on policies note 1 e. The Manager provides detailed revenue estimates special dividend income.
for the Boards review, and income is tested to ensure complete and accounted for correctly.
Careful consideration is given to special dividends.
These are allocated to revenue or capital according to the nature of the payment by the underlying company, and the allocation is also reviewed by the auditor.
Correct calculation of the The year end performance fee calculation is prepared and reviewed by performance fee.
the Manager and reviewed in depth by the Committee with reference to the investment management agreement.
The allocation of management The allocation is reviewed by the Committee annually taking into and finance costs to capital.
account the long-term split of returns from the portfolio, both historic and projected: yield: the objective of the Company: and the latest market practice of peers.
These matters were discussed with the Manager and the auditor in pre year end audit planning, and were satisfactorily addressed through consideration of reports provided by, and discussed with, the Manager and the auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
Consequently, and following a thorough review process of the 2014 annual financial report, the Audit Committee advised the Board that the report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to answer questions relating to the annual financial report.
Review of the External Auditor, including Non-Audit Services and Re-appointment Prior to any engagement for non-audit services, the Audit Committee consider whether the skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier of such services and ensures there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit as a result.
Excluding VAT and any expenses, the annual audit fee was 19,765 and the non-audit fee was 6,500: this latter item covered the review of the half-yearly financial report and the annual certificates of compliance to the trustees of the debenture stocks.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the auditors independence and objectivity.
Non-audit services up to 5,000 do not require approval in advance of the Audit Committee: amounts in excess of this require the approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee evaluated the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor and their audit process.
This included a review of the audit planning, execution and reporting and the quality of the audit work, results and audit team.
This review also sought the view of the Manager in their dealings with the auditor.
In addition, the Committee considered the independence of KPMG Audit plc KPMG and the objectivity of the audit process.
From these, and the Audit Committee Chairmans and the Committees direct interaction with KPMG, the Committee concluded that it continued to be satisfied with the performance of KPMG and that they continued to display the necessary attributes of objectivity and independence.
16310Edinburgh pp20 23 16310Edinburgh pp20 2329 05 201414:17Page23 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 During the year the Audit Committee placed the audit out to tender.
After detailed consideration of submissions from a number of audit firms and interview of the proposed audit partner and manager, the Committee recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the incumbent, KPMG, under the remit of a new audit engagement partner.
Due to a legal reorganisation within KPMG, the specific entity being appointed for 2015 will be KPMG LLP rather than KPMG Audit Plc as currently.
The Board has, therefore, decided to put KPMG Audit Plcs parent entity, KPMG LLP, forward to be appointed as auditor and a resolution concerning their appointment will be put to a shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 18 July 2014.
Under European draft audit legislation, mandatory auditor rotation will be implemented.
Transition arrangements will vary depending on the length of the audit appointment at the date the new rules come into force, but if the auditor has been in place for twenty years or more as in the Companys case the first rotation must take place within six years of the regulations coming into force.
The Company was incorporated in 1889 and the tenure of KPMG, including its predecessor firms, as auditor, is at least fifty years.
Under the committees interpretation of current and proposed regulations the Company, having now completed an audit tender, will not be required to tender or rotate the auditor again for another five years.
However, the Committee will keep the situation under review.
Audit Information The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee assesses the risks arising in relation to the Companys operations and identifies the controls exercised to mitigate them by the Board and its delegates the Manager and other service providers.
These are recorded in the Companys risk matrix which effectively highlights and monitors the principal risks, details of which are provided in the Strategic Report.
The Committee also receives and considers, together with representatives of the Manager, reports in relation to the operational controls of the investment manager, accounting administrator, custodian, company secretary and registrar.
These reviews identified no issues of significance in the last year.
Internal Audit Due to the nature of the Company, being an externally managed investment company with no executive employees, and in view of the Manager having an internal audit function the Company does not have its own internal audit function.
Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 May 2014
