16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 29 05 2014 14:17 Page 26 26 DIRECTORS REPORT continued independent.
The AIC does not believe that this presumption is appropriate for investment companies and therefore does not recommend that long-serving directors be prevented from forming part of the independent majority of an investment trust board.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the independence of Jim Pettigrew and Sir Nigel Wicks, who have served on the Board just over nine years, is not compromised by their length of service.
At the end of 2012, the Nominations Committee appointed an external search consultancy, Odgers Berndtson, to seek two new directors.
As a result, during the year the Board appointed Victoria Hastings and Glen Suarez as Directors of the Company with effect from 23 May and 24 May 2013, respectively.
Shareholders subsequently supported the Boards resolutions for the election of these two directors at the Companys 2013 AGM.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and will also be available at the AGM.
A Director can be removed from office without notice or compensation upon being served with a written notice signed by all his co-Directors.
Appointment, Re-election and Tenure Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders and Directors have the power to appoint a Director.
The Articles of Association require that a Director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and re-election at least every three years thereafter.
All Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Victoria Hastings and Glen Suarez who, as stated above, were appointed on 23 May and 24 May 2013, respectively.
In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, at every AGM all Directors shall retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board and individual Directors.
During the year, the Board appointed an external consultant, Lintstock Limited, to undertake an extensive review of the Board structure, the Committees and individual Directors together with consideration of their independence.
The conclusion was that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors was deemed satisfactory.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All Directors are considered to have a good attendance record at Board and Committee meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Directors meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director: MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NOMINATION MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS COMMITTEE Meetings held 431 1 Meetings attended: 1 Jim Pettigrew4 3 11 2 Victoria Hastings 431 n a Gordon McQueen 431 1 3 Nicola Ralston 211 1 2 Glen Suarez 431 n a Maxwell Ward 431 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 431 1 1 Jim Pettigrew is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the meetings.
2 Victoria Hastings and Glen Suarez were appointed Directors of the Company following the Nomination Committee in May 2013.
3 Retired as a Director on 19 July 2013.
Board members also attended a significant number of unscheduled meetings both formal and informal in the second half of the financial year to discuss the resignation of Neil Woodford from
