16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 29 05 2014 14:17 Page 24 24 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 The Directors present their report for the year ended 31 March 2014. Business and Status The Company was incorporated and registered in Scotland on 1 March 1889 as a public limited company, registered number SC1836.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust and, in the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 20 is included in this Directors Report by reference.
The Board At the year end the Board comprised six non-executive Directors.
Brief biographical details of the Directors are shown on page 18.
The Companys Corporate Governance Framework is set out on page 19.
This shows the key objectives of the Board and also the membership and key objectives of the Boards supporting committees which deal with specific aspects of the Companys affairs: the Audit, Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
The Board regards all of the Directors to be wholly independent of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills as well as experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Chairman The Chairman of the Company is Jim Pettigrew.
He has been a member of the Board since 2005 and was the audit committee chairman until 22 July 2011, when he was appointed as Chairman.
Senior Independent Director The Companys Senior Independent Director is Sir Nigel Wicks.
Board Responsibilities The Directors are equally responsible under United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs and for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the interest of all of the Companys shareholders and that the interests of creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures for and on behalf of the Company that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in bribery.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration, which clearly define the Directors responsibilities.
The main responsibilities include: setting the Companys objectives, policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: selecting an appropriate Manager, approving accounting policies and dividend policy: determining dividends payable: managing the capital structure: setting long-term strategy: reviewing investment performance: assessing risk: approving loans and borrowing: assessing risks: and reviewing, and if agreed approving, recommendations made by the Audit Committee.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board will be available for inspection at the AGM and is otherwise available at the registered office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The Board ensures that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the half-yearly and annual financial reports, interim management statements, factsheets and daily NAV disclosures.
