16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 29 05 2014 14:17 Page 25 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 Finally, the Board as a whole undertakes the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by a remuneration committee, determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The remuneration of Directors is reviewed periodically and reported on in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Manager with the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000, having first consulted with the Chairman.
The Audit Committee The composition and activities of the Audit Committee are summarised in the Audit Committee Report on pages 21 to 23, which is included in this Directors Report by reference.
The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises all directors under the chairmanship of Jim Pettigrew.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties, including its role and authority, and are available for inspection at the AGM and the registered office of the Company and are available via the Managers website.
The Committee meets at least annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager.
The Nominations Committee All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its duties and responsibilities and these are available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and are also available on the Managers website.
The terms of reference include regularly reviewing the composition of the Board and its committees and evaluating whether they have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company: and making recommendations to the Board for the re-election of directors at AGMs.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating to the Board suitable candidates taking into consideration the above requirements: the ability of any new director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively: and with due regard for the benefits of diversity including gender.
The Board has not set any measurable objectives in respect of the latter.
The Board has noted the inference of provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code that non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years should be presumed not to be
