Corporate Governance The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide both of which were issued in February 2013.
The AIC Code as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in September 2012, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year to 30 September 2014 except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to the role of chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has, therefore, not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board of Directors The Board comprised six Directors as at 30 September 2014, all of whom were non-executive.
Mr Yates succeeded Dr Bowe as Chairman of the Company following the retirement of Dr Bowe as Chairman and Director after the Annual General Meeting on 11 March 2014.
The Board has nominated Dame Kate Barker as the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors terms of appointment are available for inspection on request from the Company Secretary.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management arrangements with Electra Partners.
Management agreements between the Company and Electra Partners set out the matters for which Electra Partners is responsible and those over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
Regular Board meetings are held to consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All the Directors attended the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 119 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Remuneration Management Audit and Nomination Valuations Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 13 3 2 2 1 R Yates 13 1 1 1 1 1 1 C Bowe 3 3 2 Dame Kate Barker 13 3 2 2 G Cullinan 13 3 2 2 1 RK Perkin 13 3 2 1 F Barnes 13 3 2 2 1 J Gold 13 3 2 2 1 Mr Yates ceased to be a member of the Audit, Valuations and Management Engagement Committees following his appointment as Chairman.
Dr Bowe was not a member of the Audit, Valuations or Management Engagement Committee.
Dame Kate Barker and Mr Perkin were not members of the Management Engagement Committee during the year.
In the current year, due to an unavoidable conflict with a previously arranged meeting, Mr Perkin was unable to attend the May meeting of the Valuations Committee.
However, he thoroughly reviewed all relevant documentation, submitted questions and challenges, and received a full response thereto.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive board papers several days in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 128 and 129.
Independence of the Board Mr Yates was appointed as a non-executive Director of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC on 26 November 2013 and Mr Perkin and Mr Cullinan were non-executive Directors of that company throughout the year.
Dr Bowe retired as a Director of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC on 11 March 2014.
Electra Private Equity Investments PLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Electra which was established solely for the purpose of issuing and redeeming Zero Dividend Preference shares.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and, notwithstanding the cross-directorships detailed above, has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by cross-directorships.
The Board carries out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and performance and those of its Committees each year.
In 2012, the Board commissioned Boardroom Review to carry out an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees.
Issues covered included Board composition, meeting arrangements and communication.
Boardroom Review presented a detailed report to the Board on the conclusions of its evaluation and these were discussed with the Board.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
Both the former and current Chairmen have led on implementing those changes recommended by Boardroom Review that the Board considered should be made.
The Board considered that it was not necessary to carry out an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees in 2014 but carried out the appraisal through questionnaires which were completed by Directors, the results of which were discussed by the Board.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees was satisfactory.
120 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 The Chairman carried out a formal appraisal of each of the Directors during the year and the Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, similarly appraised the Chairman.
Relevant matters considered included attendance and participation at Board and Committee meetings, commitment to Board activities and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the relevant Director.
As a result of this process, the Chairman has confirmed that each of the Directors being proposed for election or re-election continues to be effective and that each of them continues to show commitment to his or her role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
Directors Terms of Appointment The Companys Articles of Association require that Directors shall retire and be subject to appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and be subject to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Directors who have served for more than nine years and who wish to continue in office are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Board does not believe that length of service disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election.
The AIC Codes provisions on re-election of Directors state that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Previously, the Board did not consider it to be in the interests of shareholders that all Directors should be re-elected annually.
However, the Board has decided that it should change its policy so that all Directors are re-elected each year.
This change of policy will take effect with effect from the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2015.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Boards policy on Directors Terms of Appointment, all the Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2015 and offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 128 and 129.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Frostrow Capital LLP acted as the independent Company Secretary in addition to its role as Board Advisor during the year under review.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by the Audit Committee which comprised all the Directors during the year, other than Mr Yates who ceased to be a member of the Committee following his appointment as the Chairman of the Board and Dr Bowe prior to her retirement.
Mr Perkin is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met three times in the year under review and the report of its activities is contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 124 to 125.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprises all the Directors of the Company, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The Board considers it appropriate, given the number of Directors, that the Committee should comprise all Directors.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee was chaired by Dame Kate Barker throughout the year.
The Committee met twice in the year under review.
The report of its activities is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 114 to 118.
The Committees duties in relation to remuneration include determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for remuneration of the Directors.
Where appropriate, the Committee will consider both the need to judge the position of the Company relative to other companies regarding the remuneration of Directors and the need to appoint external remuneration consultants.
The Committees duties in relation to nomination include identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies based on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 121 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview The Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process carried out by Electra Partners under its contractual arrangements with the Company.
The Valuations Committee is chaired by Dame Kate Barker and comprised all the Directors during the year, other than Mr Yates who ceased to be a member of the Committee following his appointment as the Chairman of the Board and Dr Bowe prior to her retirement.
The Committee met twice during the year.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Mr Cullinan.
Mr Cullinan, Ms Barnes and Mrs Gold were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Mr Yates was a member of the Committee until his appointment as Chairman of the Board in March 2014.
The Committees duties are to review the terms of the Management Contract to ensure that they are competitive and sensible for shareholders by satisfying itself that the investment management of the Companys portfolio is in accordance with the Objective and Investment Policy: satisfying itself that all other duties of the Manager are being performed: reviewing the overall performance of the Manager: and deciding, at the intervals prescribed by the Management Agreement, on the continuation or termination of the agreement and by agreeing the terms and fees of any ongoing agreement.
The Committee met once during the year to discuss these matters.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman, senior executives of Electra Partners and the Company Secretary.
Following appointment, the Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with Directors their training and development needs as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company, in conjunction with Electra Partners, endeavours to provide the fullest information on the Company to its shareholders, maintaining a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and City analysts, as well as making a number of presentations and visits throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders are welcome to attend and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and hear a presentation from Electra Partners covering the investment performance during the last financial year.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including receipt of the annual report and accounts.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, Valuations and Management Engagement Committees are normally available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting each year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either through the Company Secretary, Frostrow Capital LLP, at 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL or at the Companys registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB.
122 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Internal Control The appointment of the Manager as AIFM of the Company under the AIFMD means that it is now responsible for risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with the requirements of AIFMD.
The Board keeps the Managers performance of these responsibilities under review as part of its overall responsibility for the Companys internal controls.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control for the year ended 30 September 2014.
This review encompasses all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Companys consolidated annual Financial Statements, along with the half-yearly Financial Statements and interim management statements are prepared in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Since investment management, custody of assets and many administrative systems are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
As part of this process Electra Partners is responsible for submitting performance statistics, investment valuations and management accounts to the Board.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy regular review by the Board of the Companys Objective and Investment Policy, including commitments to new funds.
Management Agreements and Investment Performance the Board regularly monitors the performance of Electra Partners to ensure that the Companys assets are managed in accordance with the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key controls of Electra Partners as follows: The Board reviews the terms of the management agreements and receives regular reports from Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews the certificates verifying compliance with documented controls provided by Electra Partners on a six monthly basis.
Additionally, the external auditors perform certain agreed upon procedures regarding these controls.
Voting Policy Under the investment management arrangements Electra Partners has complete discretion in relation to all voting issues in respect of the Companys investments.
Electra Partners has adopted the UK Stewardship Code and has made disclosures regarding its policies on stewardship on its website www.
Electra Partners policies on stewardship have been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Other Information in the Report of the Directors Other information regarding voting rights of shares, restrictions on voting, deadlines for exercising voting rights, appointment and replacement of Directors, powers of Directors, authority to make market purchases of shares, substantial interests in the Companys shares and details concerning alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company is contained in the Report of the Directors.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 123 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview
