42 Corporate Governance Report there is a procedure in place to deal with any actual or potential conflicts of Leadership interest.
Prior to taking on additional responsibilities or external appointments, Directors are obliged to obtain authorisation from the Chairman and The Board is responsible for leading and so these can be shared with the other it is their responsibility to ensure that controlling the Group and has overall Directors at the meeting.
Meeting they will be able to meet the time authority for the management and attendance by each of the Directors is commitment expected of them in their conduct of the Groups Business, strategy shown below.
The Board is also At each meeting, the Chief Executive conflicts approved by the Board are responsible for ensuring the maintenance Officer and Chief Finance Officer reported recorded in an Interests Register, and are of a sound system of internal control and on operational and financial performance.
noted by the Board at its next meeting.
risk management including: financial, operational and compliance controls, and Diversity Executive Directors may take up only one for reviewing the overall effectiveness of esure Group is strongly committed to the FTSE 100 non-executive directorship and systems in place, and for the approval of merits of diversity at Board level and are allowed to retain any fees they any changes to the capital, corporate and throughout the Business.
We are receive for such appointments.
Stuart management structure of the Group.
committed to carrying out candidate Vann and Darren Ogden do not hold any searches across the widest possible pool such directorships.
To assist the Board in carrying out its of talent against a set of objective criteria functions and to ensure there is The Board of Directors based on merit: but with due regard to independent oversight of internal control The Board comprises ten members: the the benefits of diversity, including gender.
and risk management, the Board has Chairman, two Executive Directors and Currently 40% of the Board are female.
delegated certain responsibilities to Board seven Non-Executive Directors.
This will committees, which, except for the Our Operational Executive Committee reduce to eight members two Executive Investment Committee and the has two women on a committee of eight Directors and five Non-Executive Nomination Committee, are comprised of members 25%.
Of our senior managers Directors following the departure of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
23.1% 5 are female: this increases to Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony The Nomination Committee is comprised 31.2% 34 for managers.
Our overall Hobson in May 2015. of a majority of Independent Nonpercentage of female staff is 50.1% 817.
The Chairman of Group Executive Committee and We shall continue to develop the potential each Board Committee reports to the Operational Executive Committee of women throughout the Group.
Board on its proceedings after each The Chief Executive Officer and Chief committee meeting.
Each Board Finance Officer are complemented by Directors external activities and Committee has agreed Terms of a strong and experienced senior conflicts of interest Reference approved by the Board.
management team comprising seven Directors have a statutory duty to avoid executives with an average of 20 years situations in which they have a direct or The full schedule of matters reserved for experience in the insurance industry.
indirect conflict of interest or possible the Boards decision along with the Terms The Group Executive Committee is conflict of interest with the Company.
of Reference of the Boards key chaired by the Chief Executive Officer Under the Companys Articles of committees are available to view online and the Operational Executive Committee Association the Board has the authority at www.
com corporateis chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
to authorise such potential conflicts and information corporate-governance Board meetings Directors attendance The Board holds regular scheduled Meetings Possible meetings throughout the year.
Eight Name of Director attended attendance scheduled Board meetings were held in Peter Wood Chairman 8 8 2014.
Going forward, there will be seven Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer 8 8 scheduled Board meetings held each year, plus an annual strategy meeting.
Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer 8 8 Dame Helen Alexander 8 8 When necessary, we hold additional Mara Dolores Dancausa 8 8 Board meetings, and in 2014, we held two additional meetings primarily to Mike Evans 7 8 discuss the proposed acquisition of Shirley Garrood 8 8 Gocompare.
If unable to attend a Anthony Hobson 8 8 meeting, Directors are encouraged to Anne Richards 8 8 provide their views and comments to the Peter Ward 8 8 Chairman on the matters to be discussed esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 43 The roles of the Chairman and the In addition to membership of the Board, Dame Helen Alexander is the Deputy Chief Executive Officer are separate the Chief Executive Officer leads the Chairman and also the Senior with responsibilities clearly divided.
Executive team in running the business Independent Director.
She supports the and is charged with recommending and Chairman in his role and is also The Chairman then implementing the Boards strategy.
available as an additional point of The Chairman is responsible for the He is also responsible for ensuring contact for shareholders.
Following leadership of the Board and ensuring effective internal controls and risk Dame Helens departure in May 2015, its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
management systems are in place.
Shirley Garrood will become the Senior He promotes the highest standards Independent Director.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive of corporate governance and ensures Officer meet regularly and keep in close effective communications with Company Secretary contact as they are a critical link between shareholders.
The Chairman sets The Company Secretary provides the Board and senior management.
They the agenda for Board discussions to administrative and logistical support to also liaise on strategic and other issues.
promote effective and constructive the Board.
Advice and support are also debate and to support a sound given on governance, compliance and Non-Executive Directors decision-making process, ensuring regulatory matters.
The Company The Non-Executive Directors bring a that the Board receives accurate, Secretary is available to advise all very broad level of experience and timely and clear information, in Directors and ensure that Board independent judgement to the Board particular about the Groups procedures are complied with.
The and make a valuable contribution to performance.
He is also Chairman Directors may also seek independent achieving our objectives.
They provide of the Nomination Committee.
professional advice at the Companys a strong independent element on the expense.
No such advice was sought Board and are well placed to The Chief Executive Officer during the year.
challenge constructively and help The Chief Executive Officer is develop proposals on strategy.
responsible for the performance and management of the Groups Business.
Group Executive and Operational Executive Committees Nick Edwards Sue Inglis Stuart Vann Darren Boland Mark Foulsham E O O E E O O General Counsel & Head of Claims Chief Executive Officer Chief Risk Officer Chief Information Officer Company Secretary Committee memberships E Group Executive O Operational Executive Darren Ogden Jon Wilshire David Pitt Helen Taylor E O O E O O Chief Finance Officer Chief Underwriting Officer Chief Operating Officer HR Director esure Group Annual Report 2014
