Corporate governance report Directors and officers Dear Shareholder, Bovis Homes has performed strongly, delivering on its growth ambitions for 2014 with a further significant improvement in returns and record land investment, backed by strong capital management.
During the year, we announced the Groups updated strategic plan and enhanced dividend guidance.
The Groups growth prospects are exciting and good progress has been made Ian Tyler in 2014 towards the achievement of the Groups medium term Chairman targets, designed to drive improved shareholder returns.
Having been Chairman of Bovis Homes since November Board meetings rotated through the operating regions and 2013, I know that your Company works hard to ensure that included open discussion with regional management teams its reputation for high standards of corporate governance is on their local market, new sales outlets, land acquisitions and deserved.
Embedded standards and behaviours enable the Board progress with their objectives.
to function effectively in supporting and monitoring senior There were no changes in our corporate governance best practice management in the implementation of strategy.
The Board reviewed its policy on diversity, without shareholder returns are being delivered by the Groups growth making any changes to the published version, which states that we strategy and I am excited and optimistic about the future at will always make appointments to the Board based on merit.
A full cycle of meetings, plus visits to the regions this approach in mind, I was delighted to welcome Chris Browne and discussions with senior and regional management, have to the Board as a non-executive director in September 2014. deepened my knowledge of the Group and its operations and my perception of good corporate governance as a strength I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their supporting a cohesive Board and a well managed Group.
collective support and strong individual contributions during 2014 and look forward to their strong performance during the This report has been prepared and approved by the Board.
John Warren retires at the 2015 AGM and, on On behalf of the Board, I confirm that during 2014 your behalf of the Board, I would like to recognise Johns significant Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate contibution during nine years as a non-executive director and Governance Code the Code, with the exception that the eight years as Audit Committee Chairman.
I would also like to Audit and Remuneration Committees had two rather than three thank Colin Holmes, who retired at the 2014 AGM after seven independent non-executive directors from the 2014 AGM in May years as Remuneration Committee Chairman for his valuable until the end of August 2014.
The Company remains compliant contribution in this role and as a non-executive director and with the Code in all other respects.
An external Board evaluation Jonathan Hill, who leaves the Group in March 2015, for his was carried out towards the end of 2014, which provided strong performance as Group Finance Director over four and a valuable feedback and insights for the future.
is provided on page 39 including the outcomes that we will be pursuing during 2015.
Dialogue with all our shareholders is valued, whether in individual meetings, presentations or at our AGM.
I look forward During 2014, the Board carried out a full range of activities from to meeting as many major shareholders as possible during the the review and development of mid-term strategy, including coming year.
Our 2015 AGM will be held on 15 May 2015 and at our strategy day, to regional site visits, receiving regional you will find the Notice at the end of this Annual Report.
I look management presentations, and review of risk, health and safety forward to chairing the AGM and to meeting the shareholders performance and customer satisfaction performance.
The non-executive directors continued to provide constructive challenge and assisted in the development of the mid-term strategy.
They tested proposals put forward by the executive directors during the year and the supporting assumptions.
Ian Tyler Chairman Bovis Bovis Homes Homes Group Group PLC PLC || 35 35 Corporate governance report been satisfied that the majority of performance measures are Introduction outcome measures with no forward impact, that flexibility This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK is retained to amend bonus outcomes if they do not reflect Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the business performance and that the risk of circumstances arising Financial Reporting Council publicly available at www.
uk in which such provisions may be required is strictly limited.
The and also describes how the governance framework, set out in remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM and the the annex to this report, is applied.
Company will include for such provisions in the policy to be put The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, to shareholders for approval in 2017. throughout 2014, complied with and applied the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as set out below, with The leadership structure the exception that the Audit and Remuneration Committees The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for had two rather than three independent non-executive directors the long-term success of the Group and its strategy, values and from the close of the AGM on 16 May 2014 until 31 August governance.
It provides leadership, sets the Groups strategic 2014.
There was one meeting of the Audit Committee and one objectives and approves and monitors progress with business meeting of the Remuneration Committee during this period.
plans, budgets and forecasts, applying independent judgment.
There was also one meeting of the Nomination Committee The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed and where the non-executive directors comprised half the approved annually by the Board and a copy is available on the membership, as opposed to a majority.
co. uk investor-centre The Companys incentive schemes do not currently include corporate-governance.
provisions that enable the withholding of payment or the recovery of sums paid malus and clawback as the Board has The governance structure in 2014 and for 2015 is shown below.
Bovis Homes Group PLC board Responsible for leadership, strategy, values and governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Oversees financial Sets and reviews Reviews balance and statements and reporting remuneration policy composition of the Board Monitors internal controls Determines remuneration Maintains focus on and risk management and incentives of the succession planning Group Executive Committee executive directors and the Board of Bovis Homes Ltd Monitors effectiveness Leads recruitment process Chairman of external and internal Responsible for the operations of the Group Recommends auditors Sets performance criteria appointment of directors for incentive plans Central Division board South Division board Responsible for the operational Responsible for the operational management of the Central Division management of the South Division Northern region Central region Eastern region Southern region Western region South West region board board board board board board 36 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance From the start of the year until the AGM held on 16 May 2014, the comprehensive and tailored induction was provided for Chris Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, three independent Browne, which included visits to the regional offices, site visits and non-executives and two executive directors.
From the 2014 AGM, meetings with senior management.
following the retirement of Colin Homes, until 31 August 2014 Biographical details for the directors are provided on page 34.
Their there were two independent non-executive directors.
With the dates of appointment retirement, length of service to the end of appointment of Chris Browne on 1 September 2014 the number 2014 and attendance at Board meetings in 2014 are shown below.
again increased to three independent non-executive directors and has remained so up to the date of this report.
A formal, Tenure in Attendance Name Date of appointment Current role current role at meetings Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 1 year 9 9 Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Deputy Chairman 6 years 9 9 01 12 2006 Colin Holmes Non-executive 7.5 years 4 4 retired 16 05 2014 John Warren 01 03 2006 Non-executive 8.5 years 9 9 Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Non-executive 6 months 2 2 01 07 2002 David Ritchie Chief Executive 6.5 years 9 9 current role 03 07 2008 Jonathan Hill 23 08 2010 Group Finance Director 4.5 years 9 9 The Board benefits from a broad range of expertise and experience As mentioned in the Nomination Committee report, a progressive and has a strong blend of skills, which has allowed it to perform and orderly refreshing of the Board is being completed, led by the effectively and to a high level in 2014 during a period of transition.
Chairman, and diversity has been one consideration as part of The non-executive Chairman brings a strong track record of this process.
commercial experience in construction and infrastructure related Board meetings industries which benefit the Group in the ongoing execution of There were nine meetings during 2014.
The Board maintains and its growth strategy and the appointment of Chris Browne as a reviews a rolling agenda plan, which ensures that all key issues non-executive director adds a strong commercial and general and matters reserved to the Board are discussed at the appropriate management background in a consumer facing industry.
The Chairman reviews meeting agendas with the CEO and The three non-executive directors have been determined by the Company Secretary and the Company Secretary maintains a Board to be independent in character and judgement with no schedule of matters arising which is reviewed at each meeting.
relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or that could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board receives a comprehensive electronic meeting pack a week in advance of each meeting plus other information required In accordance with the Code, all the directors will be offering to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in an themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the atmosphere of open and free flowing discussion and debate, with a exception of John Warren who will retire at the AGM having questioning approach which enables the non-executive directors to served nine years on the Board.
The Board strongly supports all the challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by individual directors re-elections, taking account of the balance of the executive directors.
In a new development for 2014, the Division skills and expertise and the performance of the Board as a whole.
Managing Directors attended the majority of meetings and this All the directors have service agreements or contracts and the increases the range of views available to the non-executive directors.
details are set out in the approved remuneration policy, which is available at www.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has authorised an actual conflict of interest and this and potential conflicts of interest are reviewed annually.
The Board is satisfied that powers to authorise actual and potential conflicts are operating effectively.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 37 Corporate governance report At each Board meeting during 2014: The Board also reviewed other topics, such as the market environment, land acquisitions, land sales, analysis of the CEO provided a review of business and current trading competitors, investor and analyst feedback, and regulatory and performance, recent developments and strategic issues.
the GFD provided a financial review, including results and Four meetings were held in London and five were held in the latest projections, budgets, forecasts, Group KPIs, leading regions, providing the opportunity to meet and interact with market indicators and an analysis of share price valuation and local management teams.
Four regions provided presentations movements.
to the Board at these meetings and question and answer sessions were followed by informal interaction.
One meeting the Board received regular reports covering health and safety, was preceded by an evening meeting with the Group Executive customer satisfaction, major shareholdings and litigation.
Committee the senior management below the Board and the At particular points in the year, the Board reviewed: Board also met its members at other points in the year.
Visits to sites and sales outlets, including product viewings, took place in strategy, principal risks and mitigation, financial statements four regions.
and regulatory announcements, dividend policy and facility refinancing.
The annual strategy day in July provided the Board with the opportunity for an in-depth review of the mid-term strategy for updates on product and specification, customer service and the Group and was preceded by an evening starter session.
progress with succession planning and the outcome and The Chairman also held meetings with the non-executive actions arising from the 2013 Board performance evaluation.
directors, without the executives present, during the year.
The Boards site visit to the Groups Wantage development At the end of November 2014, the Board visited Western regions Wantage development, titled Letcombe Fields.
The sales office and a viewing of the show homes provided the backdrop for discussion with sales staff covering the local market, sales rates and customer satisfaction.
A tour of the construction site led by the site manager then followed, allowing feedback to be obtained from site staff on the build programme, production issues and health and safety performance.
Returning to the sales office, the visit concluded with a discussion summarising the sites overall performance.
38 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of its own Ensuring an effective Board performance towards the end of 2013 and, as outcomes, during 2014 The Board completed its second external independent evaluation the Board: of its own performance towards the end of 2014.
The Chairman increased the focus on strategic issues, including the mid-term and Company Secretary first considered the approach to be taken strategy at the strategy day and communication to shareholders.
and a shortlist of candidates was prepared.
Following meetings, Independent Audit who have no other connection with the Company increased the number of visits to the regions and engagement with were recommended to the Board.
On appointment, Independent the regional management teams.
Audit undertook a thorough review of Board materials, followed by continued to focus on non-executive succession planning, including a confidential interview process which included meetings with the consideration of diversity.
directors, Company Secretary and the Division Managing Directors and introduced leading market indicators to further improve nonthe observation of a Board and Committee meetings.
A draft report executive visibility of changing market trends.
was then prepared and review findings were fully discussed with the Chairman in a briefing session.
The final report was circulated with the Individual director assessments were carried out by the Chairman, using next meeting pack and was presented to the Board by Independent a discussion and interview process which covered overall understanding Audit and discussed.
of the business, effectiveness of contribution and challenge, The overall conclusion was very positive and the review was considered communications, time commitments and training and development.
The Board was found to have increased The outcomes showed that all the directors are contributing effectively its effectiveness as a positive force, despite undergoing change and and are demonstrating commitment to their roles.
transition after a long period of stability.
The Chairman is providing The performance evaluation of the Chairman was led by the Senior strong and effective leadership and relationships are developing Independent Director, with input from all other members of the based on mutual trust and respect.
There is a sense of strong forward Board.
Recognising that the Chairman had recently been appointed momentum, arising from a number of positive developments, including in November 2013 directors felt that he had settled very well into the clarity on the mid-term strategy and communication to shareholders role, establishing good and effective working relationships with both and focus being brought to areas where operational performance can executive and non-executive directors.
The Chairman was considered be improved.
Meetings are providing an increased degree of challenge, to have fostered a conducive environment for Board meetings with with more open and free flowing discussion, which facilitates decision open debate and constructive challenge and a focus on the key issues making.
A common sense of purpose, strong communication and for consideration.
Directors felt that he had applied himself diligently positive relationships were all developed during 2014.
The broad to learn the Companys business, spending significant time both range of expertise and experience amongst the non-executive directors on sites and with the Companys executives, and relevant external remains a key strength and the size and structure of the Board was advisers and stakeholders, and had developed a strong understanding thought appropriate for the current business, but would be kept of the strategy and operations of the Company.
It was considered under review.
Future succession planning should continue to include that the Board had been effective under the Chairmans leadership diversity as a consideration, whilst seeking to maintain and enhance with well-planned meetings, appropriate agendas and broad effective the strengths on the Board.
The report was well received and the recommendations, many of Board committees which were already under consideration, were developed into an The Board is supported by standing Audit, Nomination and action plan for 2015.
An overview Is provided below.
Remuneration Committees and their memberships, roles and activities are set out in separate reports: Audit Committee on pages 62 and 63, Nomination Committee on pages 64 and 65, and Remuneration Focus areas Objectives for 2015 Committee on pages 45 to 61.
Each Committee reports to and Keep the size and structure of the Board composition has terms of reference approved by the Board and the minutes of Board under review.
Committee meetings are circulated to and are reviewed by the Board.
Board meetings Consider improvements to the Boards agenda plan.
The Audit Committee is chaired by John Warren, the Remuneration Increase focus on leadership Succession planning Committee is chaired by Alastair Lyons and the Nomination Committee development and executive director is chaired by Ian Tyler.
A new Audit Committee chair, Ralph Findlay, has succession planning.
been recruited to succeed John Warren who will retire at the AGM.
Market conditions Explore availability and use of further information on competitors and industry A performance evaluation of the Committees was completed as part of best practice.
the external independent evaluation and all were found to be effective and working well, with all achieving their respective remits.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 39 Corporate governance report Governance through the business Shareholder engagement The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it fits The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme, with our business and further details are set out below.
which allows the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to regularly engage with our major shareholders.
In addition to oneAmongst matters reserved for the Board are leadership of the to-one meetings through the year, the Company holds a series of Group, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of operations presentations and meetings following the announcement of the and performance, capital structure, financial reporting, internal final and half-yearly results.
These presentations are made publicly controls and approval of major expenditure and transactions.
available so that all shareholders can access them on the Groups The Board has approved a written division of responsibilities website at www.
between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive The Board reviews feedback on investor relations meetings, visits and the role of the non-executive Deputy Chairman has been and presentations, including the matters communicated and similarly defined.
During 2014, the feedback was positive and helpful to The Chairman is primarily responsible for: the Board.
the effective working of the Board, The Board also values other channels to obtain shareholders views.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are taking a leading role in determining the Boards composition aware of any issues or concerns that major shareholders may have.
and structure, and In addition, the Deputy Chairman also the Senior Independent ensuring that effective communications are maintained Director is accessible to shareholders.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, which The Chief Executive is responsible for: this year will be held on 15 May 2015.
The full Board, including all the operational management of the Group, Committee Chairmen, attend and value this meeting as a means of communicating with private investors and encourages their developing strategic operating plans and presenting them to participation.
All shareholders have the opportunity to exercise the Board, and their right to vote and can appoint proxies if they are unable to the implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
To facilitate this we provide an electronic voting facility.
The Deputy Chairman supports the Chairman in ensuring that Shareholders attending the AGM have the opportunity to ask the Board is effective and constructive relations are maintained, questions relevant to the business of the meeting and hear the in addition to acting as the Senior Independent Director, in views of other shareholders before casting their vote.
After the which capacity he leads the annual performance evaluation meeting the results of voting on all resolutions are published on of the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact the Groups website.
Additional information The Companys Management Paper is subject to regular Risk management and internal control Board review.
It contains appropriate controls, authorities and procedures across the range of the Groups activities and The Code states that a board is responsible for determining includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take Board to management.
in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board has agreed that this important principle should form part of its consideration of The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary strategy and all major decisions.
The Board also has responsibility are available to the directors.
All directors have access to the for maintaining sound risk management and internal control Companys professional advisers and can seek independent systems and, whilst monitoring and review forms part of the professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice work undertaken by the Audit Committee, the Board is ultimately was sought during the year.
responsible for the risk appetite and management of risk.
Risk is Training is made available to directors when required and the a regular agenda item, which allows all directors to review the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that directors continually quality of risk management processes, risk mitigation and the update and refresh their knowledge and skills and familiarity risk appetite.
with the Company, as appropriate to their role on the Board The Board has complied with Principle C. 2 of the Code by and on Board Committees.
During 2014 the directors received completing a robust assessment of the principal risks facing governance, regulatory and technical updates.
the Company, including those that would threaten its business The Company has an insurance policy in place which insures model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These risks and directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
mitigations are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 31.
Information on share capital is provided on page 67.
It has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks, in accordance with the FRCs 40 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial The Group maintains computer systems that record financial and Business Reporting.
This process has been in place for the period transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the Internal Audit under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising from these exercises Accounts and includes compliance with provision C. 2.3.
It is designed are reported to the Audit Committee.
to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable Control over cash expenditure, which lies at the heart of any and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
financial reporting process, is key.
The Group maintains tight control Monitoring is based principally on reviewing reports from Internal in this area through a centralised Group payment function, regularly Audit and from management and covers all material controls, maintained authorisation documents and segregation of including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk authorisation accountability.
The Group maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial reporting The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Companys cycle, allowing management to assess the financial progress of the system of internal control and risk management systems annually and Group.
This is further supported by a formal budget and forecast reports its findings to the Board.
It receives reports from the internal process which ensures that there is a robust and relatively recent financial and external auditors and management which assess the effectiveness forecast in place at all times against which to assess performance.
of internal control and risk management and make recommendations Together with this financial reporting, the Group requires its Division for improvements.
and regional management teams to report key business issues as part Risk assessment of a monthly regional reporting pack on a standardised basis.
As the Groups grows and activities evolve, the nature of the risks on Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which ensures that which it focuses evolve.
A key part of the system of internal control is there is an audit trail between the output from the Groups financial the maintenance of the risk analysis and matrix, compiled using the risk reporting system and the Groups financial statements as they are universe as the basis of identification and a process of evaluation that prepared for reporting.
distils the impact of key risks, mitigation measures and residual risk for Board review.
This leads to an assessment of changing risk tolerance Going concern and, ultimately, the risk appetite.
During 2014, a full risk review and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation an interim risk review took place.
In setting its approach, the Board that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking the foreseeable future and for at least a twelve month period from the opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
date of approval of these financial statements.
These enquiries consist Control framework of the production and review of detailed financial forecasts covering the period January 2015 to December 2017.
These forecasts take The Group maintains a control environment, which is regularly into account current market trends with reasonable judgements and reviewed by the Board.
As new procedures and working practices are estimates applied to arrive at future cash flow estimates.
As part of this adopted, risk factors are reviewed and internal controls are embedded review, the Group has analysed its forecast covenant compliance over into systems.
The principal elements of the control environment include this period linked to its banking facility, arriving at an assessment of the regular board meetings, the Division and regional structure, defined headroom evident between the forecast covenant test outcomes and operating controls and authorisation limits, an Internal Audit function the outcomes necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
and a comprehensive financial reporting system.
The Group entered into its current banking arrangement on 29 January There are a number of elements of the Groups internal control and 2013.
This arrangement provides a committed revolving credit facility risk management systems that are specifically related to the Groups with a limit of 125 million maturing in March 2017 and a three year financial reporting process: term loan of 25 million maturing in January 2016.
On 23 August there is a well understood management structure which allows 2013, the limit for the committed revolving credit facility was increased for clear accountability and an appropriately granular level of by 50 million until 31 December 2015.
The Group regards its current financial control.
banking arrangement as adequate for its needs in terms of flexibility the structure is underpinned by documented authority levels for and liquidity and will renew it during 2015.
As at 31 December business transactions laid out in the Groups Management Paper.
2014, the Group had drawings of 18 million under the 175 million revolving credit facility and had net cash of 5 million.
the process is further supported by process documents for both internal management reporting and external Group reporting For these reasons, the Group continues to adopt the going concern which stipulates amongst other things reporting timetables and the basis in preparing its accounts.
contents of key management reports.
More details on the Groups approach to financial risk management are laid out in note 4.6.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 41 Corporate governance report Annex to corporate governance report Corporate governance policy guidelines These guidelines have been adopted by the Board 5 Number of directors and provide guidance on how corporate governance An appropriate balance between executive and non-executive principles are applied by the Company.
directors is maintained and the size of the Board is set as necessary to achieve this.
The number of non-executive directors is decided so as to provide the diversity of 1 Board membership and balance skills, ability, vision and experience necessary for a sound The composition of the Board is reviewed on a regular independent contribution to the Board and the successful basis to ensure that it remains appropriate for the management of the Groups business.
By way of guidance, successful direction of the business activities of the Group.
at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, will comprise Consideration is given to boardroom diversity and the mix independent non-executive directors.
of experience, skills, ability and vision of executive and non-executive directors by the Nomination Committee.
6 Length of appointment The Nomination Committee and the Board give regular Executive directors are employed on service contracts with consideration to planning for succession to Board and notice periods which do not exceed one year.
Non-executive senior management positions, ensuring that appropriate directors service agreements set the length of their management development measures are in place.
The Board appointments at periods of up to three years and their notice currently comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman also periods up to twelve months.
Their total length of the Senior Independent Director, two further independent appointment would not normally exceed nine years from the non-executive directors and two executive directors.
date of their first AGM election.
The renewal of service agreements after two three year terms 2 Board selection is subject to rigorous review and based on annual The Board receives recommendations on the appointment re-appointment thereafter, with the third year of the third of directors from the Nomination Committee, following an term extending until the next following AGM.
evaluation of the balance of knowledge, skills, experience and diversity available on the Board.
This Board committee Under the Articles of Association, all directors are subject to comprises the independent non-executive directors, the retirement by rotation at least once in every three years Chairman and the Chief Executive and meets as required in at the AGM.
New directors appointed by the Board must considering proposed changes to Board membership.
be re-appointed by shareholders at the following AGM.
The Board has agreed that, in accordance with the Code, all 3 Non-executive director independence directors will offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
The non-executive directors are independent in character and 7 Training judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could affect or appear to affect the exercise of their On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive independent judgement on matters under consideration tailored induction to the Groups business activities, by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and being a strategy and methods of operating, policies, procedures shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or and management structure.
Directors receive training to prevent a non-executive director from acting independently.
complement their roles on the Board and Board Committees, as necessary.
4 Chairman and Chief Executive 8 Remuneration The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of roles which has been set out in writing and approved by the the Board, the policy for executive remuneration and Board.
It is normal practice for the role of Chairman to be a remuneration for the Chairman, each of the executive non-executive position.
The role of the Deputy Chairman has directors and senior management in accordance with its terms also been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
42 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance External remuneration advice appropriate to the size and position of the Company is sought when required.
Non-executive director remuneration, excluding that of the Chairman, is determined by the Board without their participation.
9 Financial information and internal control The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups annual report and accounts, half-yearly financial report, preliminary statement and other public financial information is the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups system of internal control and oversees compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors.
10 Supply of information Senior management are responsible for providing the Board with appropriate, complete and timely information relevant to the Boards discharge of its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, including significant variances, and progress with the implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to senior management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider in their judgement appropriate.
11 Board procedures and authorities The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary determine the agenda for each Board meeting and papers are circulated in advance so that matters can be properly considered by the directors.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision is maintained and detailed authorities and associated procedures have been established for individual directors in the performance of their duties.
The Board undertakes annual performance evaluations and a formal external performance evaluation every third year.
12 Relations with shareholders The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim is to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote and participate.
13 Corporate policies The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, health and safety and the environment are maintained, monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 43 Remuneration report 44 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance
