Audit Committee report The Committee has a remit that covers financial reporting, risk, internal control and oversight of external and internal audit and it plays a fundamental role in protecting shareholders interests.
John Warren, Committee Chairman The Committees terms of reference are available on the Committee membership and meetings Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre The three members of the Committee are independent non-executive corporate-governance.
directors and have relevant experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical details are provided on Main activities during the year page 34.
The Committee followed a programme structured around Recommendations on Committee membership are made to the the annual reporting cycle and received reports from Internal Board by the Nomination Committee and it is also reviewed as part Audit, the external auditors and management.
The key activities of the Committees performance evaluation.
Colin Holmes retired at undertaken were: the 2014 AGM and Chris Browne was appointed on 1 September Discussed with the external auditors the key accounting 2014.
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results Director attend meetings by invitation and all were present at for the 12 months ending 31 December 2013. all meetings in 2014.
The external auditors, KPMG LLP, and the Reviewed the 2013 annual report and accounts, to be able to Internal Audit Director were also in attendance at all meetings.
recommend to the Board that, taken as a whole, it was fair, Attendance Name Date of appointment Role at meetings balanced and understandable.
Considered and recommended to the Board the presentations John Warren 01 03 2006 Chairman 3 3 for analysts.
Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 3 3 Assessed the results and effectiveness of the 2013 final audit.
Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Member 1 1 Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors the key retired 16 05 14 accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Chris Brown 01 09 2014 Member 1 1 Groups results for the six months ending 30 June 2014.
Evaluated and agreed the external auditors audit strategy The Committee met three times in 2014 and an overview of the memorandum in advance of their 2014 year-end audit.
main activities is provided below.
Detailed papers and information were received sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper Supervised and completed a competitive audit tender process consideration of matters for discussion.
The Committee also met Received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of with the external auditors and Internal Audit, without executive the Groups operations, controls and processes.
management, following the final audit and the review of the 2013 Assessed and agreed the internal auditors audit plan for 2015, financial statements and the 2013 Internal Audit report.
No matters based on the agreed risk universe, together with the required of concern were raised in these discussions.
John Warren also met level of resource.
privately with both the audit engagement partner of the external auditors and the Internal Audit Director during the year.
The Group Reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
risk management systems and reported to the Board that there were no material control weaknesses.
Responsibilities and terms of reference Reviewed the managements going concern assessment at each The key responsibilities of the Committee are: reporting period end, considering detailed financial forecasts, future cash flow projections and the resources available to Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, the the Group, including the current banking facility and forecast accompanying reports to shareholders and corporate governance covenant compliance.
statements, including reviewing the findings of the external auditors.
Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing policy and arrangements.
Overseeing and reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
At its meeting in February 2015, the Committee discussed with Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the the external auditors the key accounting considerations and appointment and removal of external auditors and approving judgements reflected in the Groups results for the 12 months their remuneration and terms of engagement.
ended 31 December 2014 and reviewed the 2014 annual report Reviewing and monitoring the external audit process and the and accounts, to be able to recommend to the Board that, independence and objectivity of the auditors, as well as the taken as a whole, it was fair, balanced and understandable and nature and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness.
provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess Developing the policy on the engagement of the external the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account The approach taken was to analyse key areas of progress and relevant ethical guidance.
challenge during the year, followed by reviewing the 2014 annual report and accounts to ensure that all identified areas had been reported upon in a balanced and fair way and were reflected in the Groups KPIs.
62 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance from the external auditors, discussing and challenging conclusions and Significant areas audit judgements and assessing responses from the external auditor, The key accounting judgements considered by the Committee in and obtaining feedback about the effectiveness and conduct of the relation to the 2014 accounts and discussed with the external audit from those involved.
auditors, were: During the last quarter of 2014, the Committee supervised the Inventory provisioning - the level of inventory provisioning impacts completion of a competitive audit tender process, having considered the carrying value of the most significant balance on the balance KPMGs tenure since flotation in 1997 and the UK Corporate sheet.
Since the downturn in the land market in 2008 the Company Governance Code requirements to tender external audit contracts has carried a provision to write down the carrying value of the land at least every ten years.
In doing so, the Committee complied with held within inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value, the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authority Order.
Three less costs to sell, where this is less than the historic cost.
The shortlisted firms were invited to tender, KPMG LLP, Deloitte LLP and assessment of the level of provision required, requires the exercise of  LLP and a process of document submission significant judgement by management.
The Committee receives a and review was followed by presentations and question and answer regular report on this provision, updated by management, at sessions.
The Committee considered the merits of the three strong relevant Committee meetings.
At this year end the paper proposed candidates and, following debate, selected the provider expected an immaterial adjustment, which was in line with the forecast to deliver the best external auditing services in terms of quality, position and had been audited by the external auditors prior to the professionalism and overall experience.
The Committee recommended year end.
The written down sites and any adjustments proposed the appointment of  LLP to the Board at its were discussed and justified by management and the land write meeting in February 2015 and, in doing so, satisfied itself that an down provision remaining at the period end 12.9 million was orderly transition could be achieved.
reviewed, together with the profit attributable to the reversal of the provision on the sale of written down units during the year, which Our 2015 AGM Notice, therefore, contains a resolution for the was not considered to be material.
Following discussion, the appointment of  LLP as auditors to the Committee was satisfied that the judgements exercised were Company.
The AGM Notice also contains a resolution to give the appropriate and that the provision was appropriately stated at the directors authority to determine the auditors remuneration, which year end.
Details of the movements in the provision are provided in provides a practical flexibility to the Committee.
note 3.1 to the accounts on page 83.
The Committee keeps under review its policy which requires the Available for sale financial assets - the assumptions used to fair value Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be available for sale financial assets, otherwise known as shared equity undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and details of which are provided in note 4.2 on page 85, affects the and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business carrying value on the balance sheet.
These assumptions require the and audit related services, which are treated as pre-approved.
When exercise of significant judgement by management.
This is assessed an approval request is made, the Committee has due regard to through the Committee discussing with management and the auditors the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditor the assumptions adopted and any adjustments made to those is a suitable supplier, and whether there is likely to be any threat assumptions, including, in particular, the long run HPI assumption and to independence and objectivity in the conduct of the audit.
The the discount rate which are the key determinants of the expected final related fee level, both separately and relative to the audit fee is also redemption value.
Following discussion the Committee considered considered.
For an analysis of fees paid to KPMG LLP, both audit and that the assumptions adopted were reasonable.
non-audit, see note 2.1 on page 81.
The non-audit services provided External auditors during the year related to tax advisory and compliance work.
Provision of these services is not considered to impair the external auditors During the year, the Committee reviewed the independence and independence or objectivity.
objectivity of the external auditors, which was confirmed in an independence letter containing information on procedures providing Performance evaluation safeguards established by the external auditor.
Regulation, professional requirements and ethical standards were taken into account, together An evaluation of the performance of the Board Committees was with consideration of all relationships between the Company and the completed as part of the second external independent evaluation of external auditors and their staff.
Relations with the external auditors the Board, completed towards the end of 2014.
The Committee was were managed through a series of meetings and regular discussions found to be effective and continued to be well run, with the level and we ensure a high quality audit by challenging the key areas of the of accounting and financial expertise providing strong challenge.
The audit engagement partner last rotated on was also concluded that the Committee had appropriate terms of completion of the 2011 final audit after five years in the post.
reference and had fulfilled its remit in 2014 and that the audit process continued to be effective.
At its meeting in February 2015, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process as part of its consideration of the 2014 final audit.
This included assessing delivery and content John Warren against the audit plan for the 2014 year end audit, including perceived Chairman of the Audit Committee changes in audit risks, consideration of the performance of the audit team and the quality of reporting, reviewing comprehensive papers 20 February 2015 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 63
