Nomination Committee report The Committee has maintained its focus on success planning and the balance and composition of the Board.
Ian Tyler, Committee Chairman The Committees terms of reference are available on the Committee membership and meetings Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre All members of the Committee are independent non-executive corporate-governance.
directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive.
Ian Tyler chaired the Committee during the Main activities during the year year and the other members of the Committee were Alastair Lyons, Colin Holmes until 16 May 2014, John Warren, Chris Browne The main activities during 2014 focussed on succession planning from 1 September 2014 and David Ritchie.
following a long period of stability for the Board.
The Nomination Committee recommended to the Board that Alastair Lyons take Attendance over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, following the Name Date of appointment Role at meetings decision of Colin Holmes to retire from the Board at the 2014 Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 5 5 AGM, and the search for a new non-executive director commenced, taking into account the principle of boardroom diversity, amongst Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 3 5 the other requirements for the role.
The search culminated in the Colin Holmes recommendation of the appointment of Chris Browne to the Board.
01 12 2006 Member 6 6 retired 16 05 2014 Chris was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 September 2014.
John Warren 01 03 2006 Member 6 6 John Warren will retire as a non-executive director and as Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM on 15 May 2015.
Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 2 2 The Committee commenced a recruitment process in October 2014 David Ritchie 03 07 2008 Member 5 5 and has recommended an appointment to the Board which allows for a smooth handover of the role of Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee met five times in 2014, with the key focus being on Following Jonathan Hills decision to resign and leave the Group, succession planning and the specification and recruitment of two nonthe Committee also commenced the recruitment of a new Group executive directors to replace those stepping down.
The recruitment Finance Director in the fourth quarter of 2014 and this process is well of a new Group Finance Director was also a priority, following advanced and expected to conclude in the near future.
Jonathan Hills decision to resign at the end of September 2014, with a subsequently agreed departure date of 6 March 2015.
For A summary of the Committees activities during 2014 comprises: all meetings, papers and supporting documentation were circulated Keeping the structure, size and composition of the Board sufficiently in advance to allow proper consideration of matters for under review, concluding that the present Board balance and discussion.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the composition remains appropriate.
Running recruitment processes for two new non-executive Responsibilities and terms of reference directors of the Company, using objective criteria and the external search services of The Zygos Partnership who have no other The key responsibilities of the Committee are: connection with the Company, including recommendation of Review the structure, size and composition of the Board appointment to the Board.
including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and make Running the recruitment processes for the new Group Finance recommendations to the Board.
Director, using objective criteria and the external search services Considering succession planning for directors and senior of Odgers Berndtson who have no other connection with the executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities Company.
facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed in Considering succession planning, including the phasing of new the future.
appointments, as part of a progressive and orderly refreshing of Monitoring the leadership needs of the Company and leading the Board.
the process for Board appointments, ensuring they are Reviewing planning for executive director and senior management conducted on merit, against objective criteria including diversity, succession, against the background of organisational using the services of an appropriate external search consultant.
Making recommendations to the Board, including on the Recommending the directors to stand for re-election at the 2014 re-appointment of non-executive directors, the re-election AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
of directors at the AGM, and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Approving the Nomination Committee report for the 2013 Annual Report.
The Committee also reviews the results of the Board performance evaluation relating to the composition of the Board.
External legal Reviewing the Committees terms of reference.
or other independent professional advice can be obtained at the Setting a Committee timetable for 2015.
Companys expense, although this facility was not utilised during the year.
64 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The Committee also reviewed the results of the 2013 internal Board balanced board.
A decision was taken not to set measurable objectives performance evaluation relating to the composition of the Board.
and the Committee continues to consider boardroom diversity in its succession planning discussions.
Non-executive directors service contracts are renewed on an annual basis following the conclusion of a second three year term, subject Performance evaluation to satisfactory performance and there being no need to re-balance An evaluation of the performance of the Board Committees was the Board, with the third year of the third term extending until the completed as part of the second external independent evaluation of the subsequent AGM.
Recommendations were made to the Board that Board, completed towards the end of 2014.
The Committee was found service contracts for John Warren and Alastair Lyons be renewed for to be effective and it was concluded that it had fulfilled its remit in further terms, following rigorous review, including their respective 2014 and had appropriate terms of reference.
contributions, performance and commitment to their roles.
The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly supported and the Committee reviewed the diversity policy, first published in September 2011.
The policy sets out that appointments to the Board will always Ian Tyler be based on merit, so that the Board has the right individuals in place, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and explains that diversity is seen as an important consideration as 20 February 2015 part of the objective criteria used to assess candidates to achieve a Bovis Homes Group PLC | 65
