GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate investment company.
The Company has, therefore, not reported governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a further in respect of these provisions.
framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company.
This Corporate THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Report.
THE BOARD ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES AIC CODE The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the The Board has considered the principles and recommendations Companys aairs and for promoting the long-term success of of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by the Company.
All matters which are not delegated to the reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companys Managers under the Management and Secretarial Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained in the Services Agreements are reserved for the Boards decision.
AIC Guide, addresses governance issues relevant to investment Matters reserved for the Board include, amongst other things, companies and enables boards to satisfy any requirements they decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, share may have under the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk Code, as well as setting out additional principles and management, investment performance, share price discount, recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to the corporate governance, the appointment of the Company Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the Secretary and Board appointments.
The Companys investment principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by policy is detailed on pages 11 and 12. reference to the AIC guide which incorporates the UK Code, willprovide better information to shareholders.
The AIC The Board currently consists of six Directors, five of whom are Codeand the AIC Guide may be found on the AICs website independent of the Managers.
Other than as previously atwww.
disclosed in relation to Andrew Wells, the Directors are considered to be free from any relationship which could The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for materially interfere with the exercise of their independent good governance and considers that the Company has complied judgement and all Directors are able to allocate sucient time with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant tothe Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and provisions of the UK Code and associated disclosure eectively.
requirements of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
TheUKCode includes provisions relating to: All Directors, with the exception of Andrew Wells, form the membership of the Audit Committee and the Management t UIF SPMF PG UIF DIJFG FYFDVUJWF Engagement Committee.
All the Directors are members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Investment t FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO BOE Committee.
t UIF OFFE GPS BO JOUFSOBM BVEJU GVODUJPO The Board considers that it meets suciently regularly to discharge its duties eectively and the table below gives the For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and as explained in the attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not year.
relevant to the Company, being an externally managed Nomination and Management Regular Remuneration Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings John Owen 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Nicholas Bull 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 David Causer 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Elisabeth Scott 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Andrew Wells 4 4 1 1 n a n a Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 26 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Company, together with a summary of their duties and The Board appointed Nicholas Bull as Senior Independent responsibilities.
In addition, a new Director will receive an Director on 26 October 2010.
The Senior Independent Director induction, spending time with representatives of the Manager fulls the role as a sounding board for the Chairman and as whereby he or she will become familiar with the various intermediary for other non-executive Directors where necessary.
processes which the Managers consider necessary for the The Senior Independent Director also chairs the Nomination and performance of his or her duties and responsibilities to the Remuneration Committee.
The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which BOARD COMPOSITION are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company and The Board consists of Directors who, between them, have good the Chairman reviews and agrees development and training knowledge and wide experience of business in Asia and of needs with each Director and the Senior Independent Director investment companies.
The Directors believe that the Board has does likewise for the Chairman.
The Directors also receive an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, regular briengs from, amongst others, the AIC, the Companys knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed its duties and provide eective strategic leadership and proper developments or changes in law or regulations that aect the governance of the Company.
Company and or the Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors including their relevant ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION directorships are given on page 21.
As a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index, the Directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election by the The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all times with shareholders, subject to recommendation to the Board by the only the interests of the shareholders in mind and independently Nomination and Remuneration Committee the Committee of any other associations.
It meets at least four times a year, with recommending to the Board that all Directors should seek the Portfolio Manager in attendance.
The Board also makes an re-election for the forthcoming year.
As part of its deliberations, annual visit to China and meets the investment team.
the Committee conducts annual evaluations of each Director.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the The Committee has a policy of reviewing the tenure of each Managers.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Director on a three year cycle and has agreed that an Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue independent Director may serve for more than nine years, so matters referred to them from the Board and the Chairman is in long as that Director is considered by the Committee, to continue contact with the other Directors regularly without representatives to be independent.
of the Managers being present.
The Committee considers that a Chairman will not be considered BOARD BALANCE independent after nine years in that role but may remain a The Board aims to ensure that the Board and its Committees Director thereafter, subject to annual re-election.
have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
The Nomination and Remuneration The names of Directors submitted for re-election are Committee carries out its candidate search from the widest accompanied by sucient biographical details on page 21 to possible pool of talent against a set of objective criteria on the enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms basis of merit, with due regard for the benets of diversity on the and letters of appointment of Directors are available for Board, including gender.
inspection at the registered oce of the Company and will be available prior to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors PERFORMANCE EVALUATION take place in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the A formal annual process for the evaluation of the Board, its Companys Articles of Association.
The Company complies with Committees and its Directors is in place and undertaken at the the requirements of the AIC Code in respect of appointments to Board meetings ahead of the Annual General Meetings.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is review of the performance of the Chairman is led by the Senior responsible for identifying possible candidates for consideration Independent Director on an annual basis.
Whilst the independent Directors take the lead in the appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new The performance and contribution to the Company of the Director will be discussed and approved by the entire Board.
Chairman and each Director holding oce during the year to External consultants may also be used to identify potential 31March 2014 was considered using an external evaluation candidates.
It has been concluded that in each case the Chairman and Directors have been eective and that they continue to TRAINING demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and receives training on the investment operations and administration functions of the Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 27 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Committee also concerns itself with the remuneration of the The level of Directors fees is determined by the Nomination and Directors, considering the Directors roles and the responsibility Remuneration Committee within the limit governed by the Articles and time involved in carrying these duties out eectively.
Full details of the Companys Remuneration Policy makes itself aware of the directors fees of other investment trust and Directors fees are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration companies and other comparable entities.
Shareholdings in the Company by Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests are The Committee meets on an annual basis and as and when disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35. required and makes recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The THE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board The Management Engagement Committee consists of all the as a whole.
The Directors have access to the advice and services independent non-executive Directors, namely John Owen, of the Company Secretary which is responsible to the Board Nicholas Bull, David Causer, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Elisabeth Scott.
Mr Owen, Chairman of the Company, also chairs applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Committee is charged with reviewing and Directors also have the ability to take independent professional monitoring the performance of the Investment Managers and the advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary in respect of their contracts and the fees they are paid.
maintains Directors and Ocers liability insurance.
This Committee meets at least once a year and reports to the Board, making recommendations where appropriate.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate The level of remuneration of the Investment Managers and the governance responsibilities through four Committees as set Secretary is determined by the Management Engagement outbelow.
Terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Committee.
This remuneration relates to the investment Remuneration and Management Engagement Committees are management function carried out by the Investment Managers, available on the Companys pages of the Managers website: on which a percentage of the funds under management is paid, www.
including a performance fee when appropriate, and to the administrative function carried out by the Secretary.
The Board is THE AUDIT COMMITTEE mindful that the fees paid to the Investment Managers and to the The Audit Committee consists of all the independent Secretary should be at a level to ensure that both the Investment non-executive Directors, namely David Causer, John Owen, Managers and the administrators within the Secretariat who are Nicholas Bull, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and Elisabeth Scott.
engaged to look after the Companys aairs are appropriately MrCauser chairs this Committee as the Board believes it is skilled and that those individuals are fully focused on the appropriate for him to do so given his financial background and Companys business.
experience as chairman of an audit committee.
Full details of the Companys Audit Committee have been disclosed in the The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 31 and 32. performance of the Investment Managers and the Secretary include those set out below: THE NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Nomination and Remuneration Committee consists of all the t 2VBMJUZ PG UFBN o UIF TLJMMT BOE QBSUJDVMBS FYQFSJFODF PG UIF Directors, namely Nicholas Bull, John Owen, David Causer, Peter teams involved in managing all aspects of the Companys Pleydell-Bouverie, Elisabeth Scott and Andrew Wells.
Mr Bull, business: Senior Independent Director, acts as the Chairman of this Committee as it is considered that he has the requisite t $PNNJUNFOU PG UIF.
BOBHFST UP UIF JOWFTUNFOU DPNQBOZ experience to do so.
business generally and to the Company in particular: The Committee is charged with nominating new Directors for t OWFTUNFOU NBOBHFNFOU QPSUGPMJP NBOBHFNFOU TLJMMT consideration by the Board of Directors, and subsequent experience and track record and other investment related approval by shareholders.
It believes that the best way of considerations: ensuring that the Board as a whole and each independent Director individually carry out their duties in an independent t. BOBHJOH BOE DPOUSPMMJOH UIF BENJOJTUSBUJPO UIF BDDPVOUJOH manner, irrespective of the interests of the Investment Managers, and the company secretarial function: is to ensure that the search for, the interview of and recommendation to the Board of a candidate is entirely t 4IBSFIPMEFS SFMBUJPOT o TIBSFIPMEFS JOGPSNBUJPO BOE SFMBUJPOT controlled by this Committee.
The Nomination and Remuneration discount and premium management: Committee also considers the election and re-election of Directors.
t. BOBHFNFOU BHSFFNFOUT o DPOTJEFSBUJPO PG GFFT OPUJDF periods and duties: and Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 28 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement t. BSLFUJOH o DPNNJUNFOU UP BOE FYFDVUJPO PG BDUJWJUJFT of the assets, the registration services and the day-to-day designed to secure sustainable demand from potential accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these long-term investors.
contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services oered including With eect from 1 April 2014, the annual management fee the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the reduced from 1.2% to 1.0% of the Net Asset Value of the aairs of the Company.
The performance fee reduced to 1.0% from 1.5% of the average Net Asset Value for the year ending 31 March The Board, assisted by the Managers, has undertaken regular 2014.
Further details are in the Directors Report on page 22. risk and controls assessments.
The business risks have been analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls report THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE which is regularly reviewed.
The Board has reviewed the need The Investment Committee consists of all the Directors and one for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the representative of the Unlisted Investment Manager, with the systems and procedures employed by the Managers, including requisite investment experience, attends on an advisory basis.
their internal audit function and the work carried out by the Peter Pleydell-Bouverie chairs this Committee as the Board Companys external Auditor, provide sucient assurance that a believes it appropriate for him to do so given his extensive sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment experience.
investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specic to the Company, is therefore considered The Committee considers that collectively the members of the unnecessary.
Committee have sucient recent and relevant investment and financial experience to discharge its responsibilities fully.
The The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report on Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the the eectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf of on-going performance of the investments: discussing with the the Company and meets the Managers Internal Audit Investment Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios: representative at least three times a year.
The Chairman of the reviewing all investments including pre-IPO opportunities: and Audit Committee has direct access to the Managers Head of reporting to the Board on a periodic basis.
Internal Audit and vice versa.
The Board also receives each year from the Managers a report on their internal controls which The Committee meets when appropriate or as the Chairman of includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the Committee shall require.
the control procedures in operation around the investment management and administration processes.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance FINANCIAL REPORTING with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors, Set out on page 36 is a statement by the Directors of their the Directors have established an ongoing process for responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced Report and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its by the Company and have reviewed the eectiveness of the risk reporting responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report management and internal control systems throughout the year on pages 37 to 39.
The Board has a responsibility to present a ended 31 March 2014.
This process continued to be in place up balanced and clear assessment of annual and interim reports, to the date of the approval of these Financial Statements and is interim management statements, other price sensitive public expected to remain in place for the coming year.
reports, as well as to provide information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports are WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their issue to Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good ensure that this responsibility is fullled.
service pursuant to the Management Agreements include the ability for employees of FIL to raise concerns through a RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk procedure.
FIL has advised the Board that it is committed to management and internal control and for reviewing their providing the highest level of service to its customers and to eectiveness.
The identication, control and evaluation of risk is applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and assessed quarterly and a regular internal controls report is probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees and provided by the Managers.
The systems of risk management and others working for FIL to assist the Company in tackling fraud, internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and in risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against endorsed accordingly.
BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, including the Managers, the management of the investment honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benets this has portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 29 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Managers, the Investment Managers employees and others Except where a poll is called, all resolutions at the Annual acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate General Meeting are dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
voting results are counted, are available to the Meeting and are disclosed in the Companys page of the Managers website: The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation www.
and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, and the governance framework for training, The Notice of Meeting on pages 63 and 64 sets out the business communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is compliance together with enforcing action as appropriate.
The proposed on each substantially separate issue including the Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Chairman and the other members of the Board will be available to answer RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to in relation to investments.
These Principles include the pursuit of shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
an active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of At the Annual General Meeting a special resolution shall be investee companies.
The Managers, in their Principles of proposed to alter the Companys Articles of Association.
Further Ownership, expressly declare that they support the Financial details of the proposal can be found on page 24.
Reporting Councils Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Further On behalf of the Board details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found atwww.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are John Owen made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Chairman Senior Independent Director and other Directors are available to 5 June 2014 meet with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder prole of the Company and liaises with the Managers and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and communicate its views to shareholders.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It believes that the Companys institutional shareholders have proper access to the Managers at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on page72.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there will be a presentation of the years results by Anthony Bolton.
Dale Nicholls, the new Portfolio Manager, will talk about his investment style and the prospects for the Company for the coming year.
There will be an opportunity to meet both Portfolio Managers, representatives of the Managers and the Board.
The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak to shareholders.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 30
