GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the formal report of the Audit Committee independence and objectivity with particular regardto the the Committee to shareholders.
provision of non-audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to ensure byseeking appropriate disclosures and comfort from the theintegrity of the Companys financial reporting, the Independent Auditor: appropriateness of the risk management processes and internal Reviewing the provision of non-audit services which is subject controls and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
No work other than audit was carried Thisreport details how this has been assessed for the year out by the Independent Auditor during the year: ended 31 December 2014.
Responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Independent Auditor: COMPOSITION Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers The members of the Committee were myself as Chairman, internal audit department: reviewing the Companys Humphrey van der Klugt, Robin Niblett and Marion Sears.
procedures for detecting fraud: and reviewing the Humphrey van der Klugt is a member of the Committee because effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, the Board believe it to be appropriate for all independent operational and compliance controls and risk management : Directors to have such responsibility.
The Committee considers Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the that collectively its members have sufficient recent and relevant Company and reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
statements of the Company prior to their submission to the Board for approval to ensure they are fair, balanced and ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES understandable: The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its Reviewing corporate governance issues, the existence and terms of reference and are available on the Companys pages of performance of all controls operating in the Company the Managers website www.
These duties including the adherence to Sections 1158 and 1159 include: Corporation Tax Act 2010 status : and Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third Discussing with the Independent Auditor the nature and scope party service providers such as the registrar, custodian of the audit and reviewing the Independent Auditors quality anddepositary and the risks associated with audit firms control procedures, reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness withdrawing from the market which is considered in the of the audit process and the Independent Auditors Committees risk evaluation and planning.
MEETINGS AND BUSINESS The Committee met three times during the reporting year and twice with the Independent Auditor.
Attendance by each independent Director is shown in the table on page 28.
The following matters were dealt with at these meetings: March 2014 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of new regulatory changes and new reporting requirements Review of withholding tax reclaims, in particular from the French authority Recommendation of the final dividend payment Review of the Going Concern statement Review of compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements Consideration of the Independent Auditors report Review of the Independent Auditors performance and independence Review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board July 2014 Review of the European Markets Infrastructure Regulations EMIR Review of the recommendation of the EU Directive on Statutory Audits of Annual and Consolidated Accounts, inparticular the mandatory rotation of auditors audit firms and prohibition of certain non-audit services Review of the Independent Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31December 2014 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the Half-Yearly Report and recommendation of its approval to the Board November 2014 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the Depositarys Oversight report Review of French withholding tax reclaims Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 32 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 37.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and any specific areas which require judgement.
In respect of these Financial Statements, the Committee considered certain significant issues and how they were addressed.
Recognition of Investment income is recognised in accordance with accounting policy Note 1 b on page 45.
The Investment Income Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager, to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys investment income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Companys Independent Auditor.
The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 1 g Valuation, existence and ownership and 1 h on pages 45 and 46.
The Committee satisfied itself that the Independent Auditor has verified of investments the valuation of investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and has also including derivatives confirmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparty.
Compliance with Approval for the Company to carry on business as an investment trust has been obtained, subject to Sections 1158 and theCompany continuing to meet eligibility criteria.
Theongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria 1159 of the Corporation ismonitored on a regular basis with the help and guidance of the Companys service providers or Tax Act 2010 advisers.
Performance fee The Manager reports to the Board on any performance fee accruals that have been included in calculation theCompanys NAV on a regular basis.
The Committee sought confirmation that the Companys performance fee has been calculated in accordance with the Management Agreement and ensured thatthe independent audit included a review of this calculation.
No performance fee is payable in respect of the year ending 31 December 2014.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the performance fee has been removed.
Principal Risks and The Committee reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and evaluates them Uncertainties according to the likelihood of the risk occurring and the impact the risk may have on the Company.
Further details can be found on pages 12 and 13.
APPOINTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Grant Thornton UK LLP acts as the Companys Independent Committee reviewed: Auditor.
The Committee reviewed the independence of the Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to the fulfilment by the Independent Auditor of the agreed recommending their reappointment to the Board and prior auditplan: totheBoards proposal to reappoint Grant Thornton at the the audit findings report issued by the Independent Auditor forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ending 31December 2014: and With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee feedback from the Manager.
reviewed: The last review of alternative audit service providers took place the personnel in the audit plan for the year: in 2006 resulting in a change of audit firm.
The Independent the Auditors arrangements for any conflicts of interest: Auditors continued appointment is reviewed each year.
The the extent of any non-audit services: and Companys audit partner cannot act for more than 5 years.
Julian the statement by the Auditor that they remain independent Bartlett became the Companys audit partner for the year ended within the meaning of the regulations and their professional 31December 2011.
There are no contractual obligations that standards.
restrict the Committees choice of Independent Auditor.
James Robinson Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 March 2015 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 33 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
