GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate decision.
Matters reserved for the Boardinclude, amongst other governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a things, decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, framework for corporate governance which it believes is share issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, appropriate for an investment trust company.
This Corporate riskmanagement, investment performance, share price Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Report.
discount, corporate governance, Board appointments and the appointment of the Manager and the Company Secretary.
AIC CODE The Board has considered the principles and recommendations The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, four of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by of whom are independent of the Companys Manager and are reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment considered to be free from any business or other relationship Companies AIC Guide.
TheAIC Code, as explained by the which could materially interfere with the exercise of their AIC Guide, addresses governance issues relevant to investment independent judgement.
The Board follows a procedure of companies and enables boards to satisfy any requirements notification of other interests that may arise as part of theymay have underthe UK Code of Corporate Governance considering any potential conflicts.
James Robinson, the Senior UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and Independent Director, fulfils the role as a sounding board for recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Chairman and as intermediary for the other non-executive theCompany.
TheBoard considers that reporting against the Directors where necessary.
principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, Simon Fraser is a Director of another investment trust managed will provide better information to shareholders.
The AIC Code by Fidelity, namely Fidelity Japanese Values PLC and is therefore and the AIC Guide may be found at www.
The Board believes it to be an important aspect of the corporate governance of an investment trust The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for company that there should be links with the Manager to ensure good governance and considers that the Company has complied that the Manager is party to the responsibility, authority and with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant accountability of the Board to the shareholders.
The Directors provisions of the UK Code and associated disclosure areable to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge requirements of the Listing Rules except for the provisions below: their responsibilities fully and effectively.
the role of the chief executive: In common with most investment trusts there is no chief executive executive directors remuneration: and as the management function has been delegated as set out the need for an internal audit function.
above and is supervised by the Chairman and the Board.
Theindependent Directors form the membership of the Audit For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
theUK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are notrelevant to the position of the Company, being an externally BOARD BALANCE managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance reported further in respect of these provisions.
of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge its duties and provide effective The Company has no separate Nomination & Remuneration strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
In Committee, and in this respect it does not comply with the UK particular the Directors have a wide knowledge and experience Code principle B.
2.1 and D. 2.1 and the equivalent AIC Code of fund management, investment trust management and business principle.
The reasons for non-compliance are detailed on in Europe.
Biographical details of allthe Directors are given on page29.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board aims to have a balance of skills, expertise, length of service and knowledge of the Company represented on the THE BOARD Board.
The Board carries out its candidate searches with full The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender, drawing Companys affairs and for promoting the long term success from the widest possible pool of talent against a set of objective ofthe Company.
All matters which are not delegated to the criteria, and makes its appointments on the basis of merit.
Companys Manager under the Alternative Investment Fund Management and Secretarial Services Agreement the Management Agreement are reserved for the Boards Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 27 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 3 3 2 2 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Robin Niblett 5 5 3 3 2 2 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 2 2 Marion Sears 5 5 3 3 2 2 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals BOARD MEETINGS The Board receives in due time information in a form and of a The Board meets formally at least fives times a year and between quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager.
Other Board meeting papers are the key source of regular information meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board for the Board, the contents of which are determined by the Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred and contain sufficient information on the financial condition of fromthe Board and the Chairman is in contact with the other the Company.
Directors regularly without representatives of the Manager being present.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board meeting, times with only the interests of the shareholders in mind and quite enabling the Board to probe further on matters of concern or independently of any other associations.
It endeavours to provide seek clarification on certain issues.
leadership in terms of the direction of the Company.
The Board has delegated certain of its corporate governance The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to responsibilities to the Audit and Management Engagement discharge its duties effectively and the table above gives the Committees, each composed of all the independent Directors.
attendance record for the formal meetings held in the reporting year to 31 December 2014.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors COMPANY SECRETARY take place in accordance with the Companies Act, the The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The appointment Companys Articles of Association and the AIC Code.
Whilst the of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
independent Directors take the lead in the appointment of new The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Directors, any proposal for a new Director will be discussed and Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is approved by the whole Board.
As a consequence, there is no responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are Nomination Committee.
External consultants are used to identify followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied potential candidates.
Each Director of the Company is entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, inthefurtherance The Board carries out its candidate search against a set of of their duties.
objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
SUPPLY OF INFORMATION TO DIRECTORS The Chairman is responsible for the promotion of a culture of The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are openness and debate, for ensuring that the Directors receive available for inspection at the registered office of the Company accurate, timely and clear information and for ensuring that there and will be made available prior to the forthcoming Annual is adequate time available for the discussion of agenda items, General Meeting.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 28 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement TRAINING the Board andthe process is considered to be constructive in When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and provided with all the relevant information regarding the performance of the Board and action is taken on the basis of Company and on his or her duties and responsibilities as a theresults.
In addition, a new Director will receive an induction, spending time with representatives of the Manager whereby DIRECTORS REMUNERATION heor she will become familiar with the various processes which The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole Board the Manager considers necessary for the performance of its and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee has not been duties and responsibilities to the Company.
Full details of the Companys Remuneration Policy and Directors fees are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up Report on pages 34 and 35. todate and attend training courses on matters which are directlyrelevant to their involvement with the Company and the BOARD COMMITTEES Chairman reviews and agrees development and training needs The Board discharges certain of its corporate governance with each Director.
responsibilities to the Audit Committee and Management Engagement Committee as set out below.
Terms of reference The Directors also receive regular briefings from, among others, ofeach Committee may be found on the Companys pages of the AIC, the independent and external Auditor and the Company the Managers website www.
Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in law or regulations that could affect the Company and or the AUDIT COMMITTEE Directors.
The Audit Committee is chaired by James Robinson and consists of all of the independent Directors.
Full details of the Audit ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION Committee are disclosed in the Report of the Audit Committee on As required by company law, all newly appointed Directors pages 32 and 33. stand for election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
In MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE accordance with the AIC Code all Directors are subject to annual The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by re-election due to the Companys status as a FTSE 350 company.
Humphrey van der Klugt and consists of all of the independent Biographical details can be found on page 22.
The Committee is charged with reviewing and been put in place whereby formal letters of appointment, which monitoring the performance of the Manager and ensuring that specify the terms of appointment, are issued to new Directors on the terms of the Companys Management Agreement are appointment and to existing Directors following re-election at the competitive and reasonable for shareholders.
The Committee Annual General Meeting.
The Board will consider the length of meets at least annually and reports to the Board of Directors, tenure as one of the matters under review during Director making recommendations where appropriate.
Details of the Management Agreement are set out in the PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Directors Report on page 23.
A formal and rigorous process for the annual evaluation of the Board, its Committees and its Directors has been put in place.
The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the The process includes regular discussion and written questionnaires performance of the Manager are set out below: and if appropriate interviews, although the format may change from time to time to ensure that the Board does not become Quality of team the skills and particularly the experience of complacent in fulfilling a box-ticking exercise.
the team involved in managing all aspects of the Companys business: In accordance with Code B.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust business Code, as a FTSE 350 company, the Company is required to carry generally and to the Company in particular: out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board every third Managing the Company in running and controlling the year.
The performance and contribution to theCompany of the administration, the accounting and the secretaryship of the Chairman and each Director holding office during the year to Company: 31December 2014 was considered using anexternal evaluation Investment management portfolio management skills, agency, Stephenson and Co. with no connection with the experience and track record and other investment related Company or the Manager.
It was concluded that all the Directors considerations including gearing, currencies, use of have been effective and that they continue to demonstrate derivatives, hedging, share repurchases etc: commitment to their roles.
The performance of the Chairman is Shareholders shareholder consciousness and relations, evaluated by the other Directors in the Chairmans absence on discount management and commitment to the Companys an annual basis.
TheCompany Secretary and Portfolio Manager goals: and also participate in these processes to provide all-round feedback Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice to the Board.
Theresults of these evaluations are discussed by periods and duties.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 29 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Committee met on 29 January 2015 and reviewed the investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered 2014.
The Committee noted the Companys good long term unnecessary.
performance record and the commitment, quality and experience of the team which was responsible for the Company.
The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report on The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf shareholders that the appointment of the Manager should ofthe Company and meets a representative of the Managers continue.
internal audit team at least three times a year.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access to the Managers internal ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT audit team and vice versa.
The Board also receives each year FINANCIAL REPORTING from the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes Set out on page 37 is a statement by the Directors of their a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual control procedures in operation around the investment Report and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its management and administration processes.
reporting responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Reporton pages 38 to 40.
By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and Guidance for Directors, the Directors have established an understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as significant risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the toprovide information required to be presented by statutory effectiveness of the risk management and internal control requirements.
All such reports are reviewed and approved by systems throughout the year ended 31 December 2014.
This the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this responsibility process continued to be in place up to the date of the approval isfulfilled.
of these Financial Statements and is expected to remain in place for the coming year.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE management and of internal controls and for reviewing their Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good effectiveness.
The identification, control and evaluation of risk service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes the isassessed quarterly and a regular internal controls report is ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through a provided by the Manager.
The systems of risk management and workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate procedure.
Fidelity is committed to providing the highest level risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only of service to its customers and to applying the highest standards provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is material misstatement or loss.
to encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical including the Manager, the management of the investment conduct.
This policy is endorsed accordingly by the Board.
portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the depositary services, the registration services BRIBERY ACT 2010 and the day-to-day accounting and company secretarial The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment services offered including the control systems in operation in so Manager, the Managers employees and others acting on the far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a regular risk and controls assessment.
The business risks have been The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls report and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing which is regularly reviewed.
The Board has reviewed the need bribery, and the governance framework for training, for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of systems and procedures employed by the Manager, including compliance together with enforcing actions as appropriate.
itsinternal audit function and the work carried out by the TheBoard has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
Companys external Auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control which safeguards shareholders Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 30 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement RESPONSIBILITY AS INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 61 to 64 The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions dealing in relation to investments.
These principles include the pursuit with special business are explained more fully in the Directors ofan active investment policy through portfolio management Report on page 25.
A separate resolution is proposed on each decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and substantially separate issue including the Annual Report and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of Financial Statements.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chairman investee companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, of the Audit Committee and other Directors will be available to expressly declares that it supports the Financial Reporting answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Councils Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to institutional shareholders and agents.
Further details of the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found atwww.
THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be made RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS by special resolution.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors aremade aware of shareholders concerns and this is done On behalf of the Board througha combination of meetings with shareholders and feedback from the Companys stockbroker and Fidelity.
Analyst and stockbroker meetings with the Portfolio Manager are held throughout the year.
Theshareholder profile of the Company is regularly monitored.
The Company is committed to providing the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It believes that institutional shareholders have proper access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if Humphrey van der Klugt they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of Chairman the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary 13 March 2015 whose details are provided on page 68.
All shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is a presentation by the Portfolio Manager of the past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed bythe opportunity to meet the Board and representatives of theManager.
At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxyvotes are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 31 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
