Corporate governance International advisory board Internal Control Revised Guidance BPs international advisory board IAB advises the chairman, group chief for Directors Turnbull executive and the board on geopolitical and strategic issues relating to the In discharging its responsibility for the companys risk management and company.
This group has an advisory role and meets twice a year, with internal control systems under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the one meeting held jointly with the main board.
Between meetings IAB board, through its governance principles, requires the group chief members remain on hand to provide advice and counsel when needed.
executive to operate with a comprehensive system of controls and internal The IAB is chaired by BPs previous chairman, Peter Sutherland.
Its audit to identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
The membership in 2014 included Ko Annan, Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh governance principles are reviewed periodically by the board and are Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Solana.
consistent with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code The chairman and chief executive attend meetings of the IAB.
Issues including principle C. 2 risk management and internal control.
discussed during the year included emerging geopolitical issues which The board has an established process by which the effectiveness of the could impact BPs business, developments in Russia, the Middle East and system of internal control which includes the risk management system is North Africa, the liberalization of Mexicos oil and gas sector and the US reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance mid-term election cycle.
This process enables the board and its committees to consider the system of internal control being operated for managing significant risks, including strategic, safety and operational and compliance and control risks, throughout the year.
Material joint ventures and associates have not been dealt with as part of the group in this process.
As part of this process, the board and the audit, Gulf of Mexico and safety, ethics and environment assurance committees requested, received and reviewed reports from executive management, including management of the business segments, corporate activities and functions, at their regular meetings.
In considering the systems, the board noted that such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, the board through its committees regularly reviewed with executive management processes whereby risks are identied, evaluated and managed.
These processes were in place for the year under review, remain current at the date of this report and accord with the guidance on the UK Corporate Governance Code provided by the Financial Reporting Council.
In December 2014 the board considered the groups significant risks within the context of the annual plan presented by the group chief executive.
A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance committees in January 2015 reviewed a report from the group head of audit as part of the boards annual review of the risk management and internal control systems.
The report described the annual summary of group audits consideration of the design and operation of elements of BPs system of internal control over significant risks arising in the categories of strategic and commercial, safety and operational and compliance and control, and considered the control environment for the group.
The report also highlighted the results of audit work conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by management in response to significant failings and weaknesses identied.
During the year, these committees engaged with management, group head of audit and other monitoring and assurance providers such as the group ethics and compliance officer, head of safety and operational risk and the external auditor on a regular basis to monitor the management of risks.
significant incidents that occurred and managements response to them were considered by the appropriate committee and reported to the board.
In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors Turnbull.
Subject to determining any additional appropriate actions arising from items still in process, the board is satisfied that, where significant failings or weaknesses in internal controls were identied during the year, appropriate remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 63
