t Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and Committee reports performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to supply Audit committee non-audit services to BP.
t Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
Members Name Membership status Brendan Nelson Member since November 2010: chairman since chairman April 2011 George David Member since February 2008 Phuthuma Nhleko Member since February 2011 Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012 Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly vice chairman of KPMG, and is chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, and a member of the Financial Reporting Chairmans introduction Council Monitoring Committee.
He was president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in 2013.
The board is satisfied that Mr The work of the audit committee in 2014 remained focused on the Nelson is the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial appropriateness of BPs financial reporting and accounting judgements, the experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers review of key group-level risks and the rigour of BPs audit processes, that the committee as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend system of internal control and risk management.
A number of key topics of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is have remained core to the committees agenda, including regular required to address.
The board also determined that the audit committee assessment of the groups financial responsibilities arising from the meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Deepwater Horizon accident and judgement on whether the group has Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Nelson may be regarded as maintained significant inuence over Rosneft.
an audit committee financial expert as dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F. Outside these core areas, the committee undertook detailed reviews of key Meetings are also attended by the chief financial officer, group controller, areas of BPs business, most notably in trading where the committee visited chief accounting officer, group auditor head of group audit and the trading oors in London and Chicago.
This allowed the committee to see representatives of the external auditor, who also meet with the committee the role trading plays in the groups broader business and its system of chair on a regular basis outside the meetings.
governance, control, risk and compliance.
Over the year, formal business of the committee was supplemented by private meetings with key Activities during the year constituents.
These include BPs group audit function, the group ethics and Training compliance officer and the external auditor.
I believe the background and The committee received technical updates from the chief accounting experience of the committees members, together with the ability to officer on developments in financial reporting and accounting policy.
discuss issues directly with management, has led to an effective Externally facilitated learning sessions were held on director responsibilities performance from the committee over the year.
for assurance over joint ventures, trends and developments in the use of Brendan Nelson third-party agents and developments in global accounting standards.
Committee chair Financial disclosure The committee reviewed the quarterly, half-year and annual financial Role of the committee statements with management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial disclosure, compliance with relevant legal and financial reporting standards reporting and systems of internal control and risk management.
and the application of accounting policies and judgements.
Key responsibilities In conjunction with the SEEAC, the committee examined whether the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 was fair, balanced and t Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders of financial risks are appropriately addressed by the group chief to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
The executive and that the system of internal control is designed and committees recommended that the board could make the statement as implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 90. executive limitations as set out in the BP board governance principles.
t Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
t Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function and BPs internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance Accounting judgements and estimates Areas of significant judgement considered by the committee during the year and how these were addressed included: Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit committee review Accounting for BP exercises judgement when assessing the level of control The committee continued to review the accounting for BPs interests in other obtained in a transaction to acquire an interest in another investment in Rosneft including the assessment of significant entities entity, and, on an ongoing basis in assessing whether there inuence in light of developments during the year, such as the have been any changes in the level of control.
imposition of US and EU sanctions.
Oil and natural gas BP uses judgement and estimations when accounting for oil The committee reviewed judgemental aspects of oil and gas accounting and gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure accounting as part of the companys quarterly due-diligence and determining the groups estimated oil and gas reserves.
process, including the treatment of certain intangible assets.
The committee considered the judgements made in assessing the exploration write-offs recorded during the year.
It received a brieng on the measurement of reserves and also examined the groups oil and gas reserves disclosures that appear in this BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014.
Recoverability of asset Determining whether and how much an asset is impaired The committee reviewed the discount rates for impairment carrying values involves management judgement and estimates on highly testing as part of its annual process and examined the uncertain matters such as future pricing or discount rates.
assumptions for long-term oil and gas prices and rening Judgements are also required in assessing the recoverability margins, particularly in light of the decline in prices in the latter of overdue receivables and deciding whether a provision is part of the year.
The committee considered the judgements required.
made in assessing the existence of indicators of impairment of assets as well as the significant estimates made in the measurement of the impairment losses recognized.
The committee also continued to discuss periodically with management the recoverability of overdue receivables.
Provisions and The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of The committee received briengs on the groups contingencies oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the decommissioning, environmental remediation and litigation end of their economic lives.
Most of these decommissioning provisioning, including key assumptions used, discount rates events are in the long term and the requirements that will and the movement in provisions over time.
have to be met when a removal event occurs are uncertain.
Judgement is applied by the company when estimating issues such as settlement dates, technology and legal requirements.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill Judgement was applied during the year around the provisions The committee regularly discussed the provisioning for and and contingencies relating to the incident.
the disclosure of contingent liabilities relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill with management, external auditors and external counsel, including as part of the review of BPs stock exchange announcement at each quarter end.
The committee examined developments relating to US court rulings including Clean Water Act penalties, business and economic loss settlement payments and natural resource damages and monitored legal developments while considering the impact on the financial statements and other disclosures.
Pensions and other Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benets The committee examined the assumptions used by post-retirement involves judgement about uncertain events, including management as part of its annual reporting process.
benets discount rates, ination and life expectancy.
Taxation Computation of the groups tax expense and liability, the The committee reviewed the judgements exercised on tax provisioning for potential tax liabilities and the level of deferred provisioning as part of its annual review of key provisions.
tax asset recognition in relation to accumulated tax losses are underpinned by management judgement.
"BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 65 Audit committee focus in 2014 t 'JOBODJBM SFTVMUT BOOPVODFNFOUT t $POmSNBUJPO PG FYUFSOBM BVEJUPS t ""OOVBM 3FQPSU BOE 'PSN ' independence."
"t ""DDPVOUJOH KVEHFNFOUT BOE FTUJNBUFT t PO BVEJU GFFT o QPMJDZ BOE BQQSPWBM t %FWFMPQNFOUT JO mOBODJBM SFQPSUJOH t ""VEJU QMBO GFFT BOE FOHBHFNFOU and accounting."
"t ""VEJUPS QFSGPSNBODF BOE FGGFDUJWFOFTT t 0JM BOE HBT SFTFSWFT EJTDMPTVSFT Financial External t, FZ BSFBT PG KVEHFNFOU GPS ZFBS-end audit."
"t 'BJS CBMBODFE BOE VOEFSTUBOEBCMF disclosure audit t ""VEJU UFOEFSJOH System of internal t 3FWJFX PG FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG #1 T TZTUFN t $ZCFSTFDVSJUZ Risk control and risk of internal control and risk management."
reviews management t SPVQ BVEJU SFQPSUT t $PNQMJBODF XJUI CVTJOFTT SFHVMBUJPOT.
"t 'SBVE BOE NJTDPOEVDU SFQPSUT t 5BY t &UIJDT BOE DPNQMJBODF SFQPSUT t &GGFDUJWFOFTT PG JOWFTUNFOU t ""OOVBM FUIJDT DFSUJmDBUJPO tJRVJEJUZ t PJOH DPODFSO Undertaken jointly with the SEEAC."
Risk reviews The effectiveness of the audit process was evaluated through a survey of The group risks allocated to the audit committee for monitoring in 2014 the committee and those impacted by the audit.
It used a set of criteria to included those associated with trading activities, compliance with applicable measure the auditors performance against the quality commitment set laws and regulations and security threats against BPs digital infrastructure.
out in their annual audit plan.
This related to both the quality of opinion The committee held in-depth reviews of these group risks over the year.
This included the robustness of the audit process, also examined the groups governance of the tax function and its approach independence and objectivity, quality of delivery, quality of people and to tax planning and reviewed how risk is assessed and considered when service and value added advice.
The 2014 evaluation concluded that there evaluating BPs capital investment projects.
was a good quality audit process and that the external auditors were regarded as technically knowledgeable and unafraid to challenge and Internal control and risk management intervene where necessary.
Areas of suggested focus for the auditors The committee reviewed the groups system of internal control and risk included audit team turnover and the identication of risk areas for audit management over the year, holding a joint meeting with the SEEAC to focus.
There was also support for the independence of the external discuss key audit findings and managements actions to remedy significant auditors and feedback that they should continue sharing good industry issues.
The committee reviewed the scope, activity and effectiveness of practice.
the group audit function and met privately with the general auditor and his segment and functional heads during the year.
The committee held private meetings with the external auditors during the year and its chair met privately with the external auditor before each The committee received quarterly reports on the findings of group audit, meeting.
on significant allegations and investigations and on key ethics and compliance issues.
Further joint meetings were held with the SEEAC to Auditor appointment and independence discuss the annual certication report of compliance with the BP code of The committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each conduct and the role and remit of the newly formed business integrity year before making a recommendation to the board and shareholders.
The two committees also met to discuss the group audit and assesses the independence of the external auditor on an ongoing basis ethics and compliance programmes for 2014.
The committee held a private and the external auditor is required to rotate the lead audit partner every meeting with the group ethics and compliance officer during the year.
five years and other senior audit staff every seven years.
No partners or senior staff associated with the BP audit may transfer to the group.
The External audit current lead partner has been in place since the start of 2013.
The external auditors started the annual cycle with their audit strategy which identied key risks to be monitored during the year including the Audit tendering provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the During the year the committee considered the groups position on its audit impact of the estimation of the quantity of oil and gas reserves and services contract taking into account the UK Corporate Governance Code, resources on impairment testing, depreciation, depletion and amortization the EU Audit Regulation 2014 and the Statutory Audit Service Order 2014, and decommissioning provisions, unauthorized trading activity and BPs order issued by the UK Competitions and Markets Authority.
Having ability to maintain significant inuence over Rosneft and consequently our considered the impact of these regimes, the committee concluded that ability to recognize our share of Rosnefts income, production and the best interests of the group and its shareholders would be served by reserves.
The committee received updates during the year on the audit utilizing the transition arrangements outlined by the Financial Reporting process, including how the auditors had challenged the groups Council in relation to the governance code and retaining BPs existing audit assumptions on these issues.
rm until the conclusion of the term of its current lead partner.
Accordingly the committee intends that the audit contract will be put out to tender in The audit committee reviews the fee structure, resourcing and terms of 2016, in order that a decision can be taken and communicated to engagement for the external auditor annually.
Fees paid to the external shareholders at BPs AGM in 2017: the new audit services contract would auditor for the year were $53 million, of which 8% was for non-assurance then be effective from 2018. work see Financial statements Note 34.
Non-audit or non-audit related assurance fees were $5 million 2013 $5 million.
Non-audit or non-audit related assurance services consisted of tax compliance services, tax advisory services and services relating to corporate finance transactions.
The audit committee is satisfied that this level of fee is appropriate in respect of the audit services provided and that an effective audit can be conducted for this fee.
66 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance services categories, approval above a certain financial amount must be Non-audit services sought on a case-by-case basis.
Any proposed service not included in the Audit objectivity and independence is safeguarded through the limitation of permitted services categories must be approved in advance either by the non-audit services to tax and audit-related work which falls within dened audit committee chairman or the audit committee before engagement categories.
BPs policy on non-audit services states that the auditors may commences.
The audit committee, chief financial officer and group not perform non-audit services that are prohibited by the SEC, Public controller monitor overall compliance with BPs policy on audit-related and Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB and UK Auditing Practices non-audit services, including whether the necessary pre-approvals have Board APB.
The categories of approved and prohibited services are been obtained.
Committee review The audit committee approves the terms of all audit services as well as permitted audit-related and non-audit services in advance.
The external The audit committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance auditor is only considered for permitted non-audit services when its and effectiveness.
In 2014 the committee used an online survey which expertise and experience of the company is important.
A two-tier system examined governance issues such as committee processes and support, operates for approval of audit-related and non-audit work.
For services the work of the committee and priorities for change.
relating to accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters, internal Areas of focus for 2015 arising from the evaluation included the inclusion of accounting and risk management control reviews or non-statutory audit, broader segment and business reviews, undertaking more deep dive the committee has agreed to pre-approve these services up to an annual reviews and suggestions for further committee training.
For all other services which fall under the permitted Permitted and non-permitted audit services Permitted services Non-permitted services Audit related SEC principles of auditor independence Advice on accounting, auditing and financial reporting.
Bookkeeping other services related to financial records.
Internal accounting and risk management control reviews.
Financial information systems design and implementation.
Appraisal, valuation, fairness opinions, contribution in-kind.
Project assurance advice on business and accounting process Actuarial services.
Due diligence acquisition, disposals, joint arrangements.
Tax services Broker-dealer, investment advisor, banking services.
Direct and indirect tax advisory services.
Expert services unrelated to audit.
Assistance with tax audits and appeals.
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB ethics and Tax compliance advisory relating to human capital independence rules and performance reward.
Condential or aggressive tax position transactions.
Tax services for persons in financial reporting oversight roles.
Other services Workshops, seminars and training on an arms length basis.
Assistance on non-financial regulatory requirements.
Provision of independent third-party audit on BPs Conict Minerals Report.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 67
