t Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and Committee reports performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to supply Audit committee non-audit services to BP.
t Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
Members Name Membership status Brendan Nelson Member since November 2010: chairman since chairman April 2011 George David Member since February 2008 Phuthuma Nhleko Member since February 2011 Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012 Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly vice chairman of KPMG, and is chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, and a member of the Financial Reporting Chairmans introduction Council Monitoring Committee.
He was president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in 2013.
The board is satisfied that Mr The work of the audit committee in 2014 remained focused on the Nelson is the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial appropriateness of BPs financial reporting and accounting judgements, the experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers review of key group-level risks and the rigour of BPs audit processes, that the committee as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend system of internal control and risk management.
A number of key topics of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is have remained core to the committees agenda, including regular required to address.
The board also determined that the audit committee assessment of the groups financial responsibilities arising from the meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Deepwater Horizon accident and judgement on whether the group has Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Nelson may be regarded as maintained significant inuence over Rosneft.
an audit committee financial expert as dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F. Outside these core areas, the committee undertook detailed reviews of key Meetings are also attended by the chief financial officer, group controller, areas of BPs business, most notably in trading where the committee visited chief accounting officer, group auditor head of group audit and the trading oors in London and Chicago.
This allowed the committee to see representatives of the external auditor, who also meet with the committee the role trading plays in the groups broader business and its system of chair on a regular basis outside the meetings.
governance, control, risk and compliance.
Over the year, formal business of the committee was supplemented by private meetings with key Activities during the year constituents.
These include BPs group audit function, the group ethics and Training compliance officer and the external auditor.
I believe the background and The committee received technical updates from the chief accounting experience of the committees members, together with the ability to officer on developments in financial reporting and accounting policy.
discuss issues directly with management, has led to an effective Externally facilitated learning sessions were held on director responsibilities performance from the committee over the year.
for assurance over joint ventures, trends and developments in the use of Brendan Nelson third-party agents and developments in global accounting standards.
Committee chair Financial disclosure The committee reviewed the quarterly, half-year and annual financial Role of the committee statements with management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial disclosure, compliance with relevant legal and financial reporting standards reporting and systems of internal control and risk management.
and the application of accounting policies and judgements.
Key responsibilities In conjunction with the SEEAC, the committee examined whether the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 was fair, balanced and t Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders of financial risks are appropriately addressed by the group chief to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
The executive and that the system of internal control is designed and committees recommended that the board could make the statement as implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 90. executive limitations as set out in the BP board governance principles.
t Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
t Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function and BPs internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
