Additional disclosures reserves position through the year for our subsidiaries and equityOil and gas disclosures for the group accounted entities and for our subsidiaries alone.
a Resource progression Subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities volumes in mmboe BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2014 8,080 prospect inventory, contingent resources and reserves.
When a Revisions of previous estimates 371 discovery is made, volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory Improved recovery 196 to the contingent resources category.
The contingent resources move Discoveries and extensions 146 through various sub-categories as their technical and commercial Purchases 42 maturity increases through appraisal activity.
Sales 15 At the point of final investment decision, most proved reserves will be Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 8,819 categorized as proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently be Progressed to proved developed reserves 1,031 recategorized from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence of Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2014 7,788 development activity.
When part of a wells proved reserves depends on a later phase of activity, only that portion of proved reserves associated a Subsidiaries only volumes in mmboe with existing, available facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first PD bookings will typically occur at the point of first oil or gas production.
Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2014 4,844 Major development projects typically take one to five years from the time Revisions of previous estimates 183 of initial booking of PUD to the start of production.
Changes to proved Improved recovery 180 reserves bookings may be made due to analysis of new or existing data Discoveries and extensions 123 concerning production, reservoir performance, commercial factors and Purchases 42 additional reservoir development activity.
Sales 15 Volumes can also be added or removed from our portfolio through Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 4,990 acquisition or divestment of properties and projects.
When we dispose of Progressed to proved developed reserves 483 an interest in a property or project, the volumes associated with our Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2014 4,507 adopted plan of development for which we have a final investment a Because of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
decision will be removed from our proved reserves upon completion.
When we acquire an interest in a property or project, the volumes BP bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of associated with the existing development and any committed projects reasonable certainty with rigorous technical and commercial will be added to our proved reserves if BP has made a final investment assessments based on conventional industry practice and regulatory decision and they satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved requirements.
BP only applies technologies that have been field tested status.
Following the acquisition, additional volumes may be progressed and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with to proved reserves from non-proved reserves or contingent resources.
consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
BP applies high-resolution seismic data for the Non-proved reserves and contingent resources in a field will only be identification of reservoir extent and fluid contacts only where there is an recategorized as proved reserves when all the criteria for attribution of overwhelming track record of success in its local application.
In certain proved status have been met and the volumes are included in the cases BP uses numerical simulation as part of a holistic assessment of business plan and scheduled for development, typically within five years.
recovery factor for its fields, where these simulations have been field BP will only book proved reserves where development is scheduled to tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results commence after more than five years, if these proved reserves satisfy with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in the SECs criteria for attribution of proved status and BP management an analogous formation.
In certain deepwater fields BP has booked has reasonable certainty that these proved reserves will be produced.
proved reserves before production flow tests are conducted, in part At the end of 2014 BP had material volumes of proved undeveloped because of the significant safety, cost and environmental implications of reserves held for more than five years in Trinidad, the North Sea and the conducting these tests.
The industry has made substantial technological Gulf of Mexico.
These are part of ongoing infrastructure-led development improvements in understanding, measuring and delineating reservoir activities for which BP has a historical track record of completing properties without the need for flow tests.
To determine reasonable comparable projects in these countries.
We have no proved undeveloped certainty of commercial recovery, BP employs a general method of reserves held for more than five years in our onshore US developments.
reserves assessment that relies on the integration of three types of data: In each case the volumes are being progressed as part of an adopted 1.
Well data used to assess the local characteristics and conditions of development plan where there are physical limits to the development reservoirs and fluids.
timing such as infrastructure limitations, contractual limits including gas 2.
Field scale seismic data to allow the interpolation and extrapolation of delivery commitments, late life compression and the complex nature of these characteristics outside the immediate area of the local well control.
Data from relevant analogous fields.
Well data includes appraisal wells Over the past five years, BP has annually progressed on average 19% of or sidetrack holes, full logging suites, core data and fluid samples.
BP our proved undeveloped reserves accounting for disposals to proved considers the integration of this data in certain cases to be superior to developed reserves.
This equates to a turnover time of about five years.
a flow test in providing understanding of overall reservoir We expect the turnover time to remain at or below five years and performance.
The collection of data from logs, cores, wireline anticipate the volume of proved undeveloped reserves held for more than formation testers, pressures and fluid samples calibrated to each five years to remain about the same.
other and to the seismic data can allow reservoir properties to be In 2014 we progressed 1,031mmboe of proved undeveloped reserves determined over a greater volume than the localized volume of 483mmboe for our subsidiaries alone to proved developed reserves investigation associated with a short-term flow test.
There is a strong through ongoing investment in our subsidiaries and equity-accounted track record of proved reserves recorded using these methods, entities upstream development activities.
Total development validated by actual production levels.
expenditure in Upstream, excluding midstream activities, was Governance $18,704 million in 2014 $15,096 million for subsidiaries and $3,608 BPs centrally controlled process for proved reserves estimation approval million for equity-accounted entities.
The major areas with progressed forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
It volumes in 2014 were Angola, Azerbaijan, Russia, Trinidad, UK and US.
consists of the following elements: Revisions of previous estimates for proved undeveloped reserves are due to changes relating to field performance or well results.
The Accountabilities of certain officers of the group to ensure that there is following tables describe the changes to our proved undeveloped review and approval of proved reserves bookings independent of the operating business and that there are effective controls in the approval BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 219
