Corporate governance Board evaluation Board effectiveness Each year BP undertakes a review of the board, its committees and individual directors.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by the Induction and board learning chairmans committee.
On joining BP, non-executive directors are given a tailored induction programme.
This includes one-to-one meetings with management, the In 2014, an internally designed board evaluation for the board and the external auditors and eld visits to operations.
The induction also covers committees was carried out using a questionnaire prepared by an external governance, duties of directors, the work of the board committees facilitator Lintstock.
The evaluation tested key areas of the boards work generally and specically the committees that a director will join.
including strategy, business performance, risk and governance processes.
The output of the committee reviews were discussed individually at each To help develop an understanding of BPs business, the board continues to committee meeting in December 2014.
The output of the board review build its knowledge through briengs and eld visits.
In 2014 the board was used as the basis for one-to-one interviews between each director received training on BPs code of conduct and briengs on key business and the chairman.
Results of the board evaluation and feedback from these developments and changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The interviews were discussed by the board in January 2015. board met local management and external stakeholders at its board meetings in Istanbul and Chicago.
Key conclusions from the evaluation The evaluation, which considered the work of the board and its Non-executive directors are expected to attend at least one eld visit per committees, concluded that the processes of the board had worked well.
In 2014 the board visited the Whiting renery in the US and members The evaluation focused on how the board would continue to ensure that it of the SEEAC visited BPs operations in Baku and Brazil.
After each visit, was discussing the right issues and that, overall the board was adding the board or appropriate committee was briefed on the impressions gained value.
by the directors during the visit.
Reports from the business and on major projects were in very good shape.
On the rapidly shifting economic and geopolitical climate, the board was Board visit to the Whiting renery keen to ensure that it manages its time to allow appropriate levels of discussion.
The need to balance its monitoring activities with discussion on Ahead of its meeting in Chicago, the board visited the Whiting renery.
strategic matters was recognized and ought to be continually borne in mind.
The future role of technology in delivering BPs strategy was Directors met the renerys leadership team as well as staff and highlighted.
They got a first-hand view of progress on the Whiting renery modernization project and an opportunity to see existing Follow up from our previous evaluation operations.
Following the 2013 evaluation, more agenda time was allocated to the development of strategy and governance around capital projects, resulting As well as seeing the application of BPs OMS at the renery, the board in the creation of a regular performance report on the groups major also heard details of the role the renery plays in delivering results for projects.
The board also had a detailed brieng on the groups view on North America Fuels and the wider BP group.
long-term technology trends and examined organizational capability, including diversity and inclusion, at one of its strategic days.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 61
