approved by shareholders at the companys annual general meeting on 10 Total remuneration in more depth April 2014.
BPs strategy is reected in the measures adopted by the In describing the work and decisions of the committee in 2014, the committee for the executive directors and further aligned with those for summary wording of the approved policy has been used to introduce the the senior leadership of the group.
The policy is available at committees approach to each element of remuneration.
com remuneration and is set out in the BP Annual Report and report, the word policy refers to the directors remuneration policy Form 20-F 2013.
Salary and benets Provides base-level xed remuneration to reect the scale and dynamics of the business, and to be competitive with the external market.
Policy summary Operation and opportunity t 4BMBSJFT BSF OPSNBMMZ TFU JO UIF IPNF DVSSFODZ PG UIF FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPS BOE SFWJFXFE BOOVBMMZ t 4BMBSZ MFWFMT BOE UPUBM SFNVOFSBUJPO PG PJM BOE PUIFS UPQ &VSPQFBO NVMUJOBUJPOBMT BOE SFMBUFE 64 DPSQPSBUJPOT BSF DPOTJEFSFE CZ UIF DPNNJUUFF Internally, increases for the group leaders as well as employees in relevant countries are considered.
t 4BMBSZ JODSFBTFT XJMM CF JO MJOF XJUI BMM FNQMPZFF JODSFBTFT JO UIF 6, BOE 64 BOE MJNJUFE UP XJUIJO PG BWFSBHF JODSFBTF GPS UIF HSPVQ MFBEFST t #FOFmUT SFnFDU IPNF DPVOUSZ OPSNT 5IF DVSSFOU QBDLBHF PG CFOFmUT XJMM CF NBJOUBJOFE BMUIPVHI UIF UBYBCMF WBMVF NBZ nVDUVBUF Performance framework t 4BMBSZ JODSFBTFT BSF OPU EJSFDUMZ MJOLFE UP QFSGPSNBODF PXFWFS B CBTF MJOF MFWFM PG QFSTPOBM DPOUSJCVUJPO JT OFFEFE JO PSEFS UP CF DPOTJEFSFE GPS B salary increase and exceptional sustained contribution may be grounds for accelerated salary increases.
Base salary 2015 implementation The annual base salaries of the executive directors were reviewed in May The committee determined that in future years, salaries would be 2014.
In conducting this review the committee considered all of the factors reviewed in January to be effective in April, consistent with the rest required by the policy and the overall level of increases for employees in of BPs employees.
No increases were granted for 2015, in line with the both the UK and the US.
They also considered the distribution and average group-wide salary freeze.
level of increases for group leaders comprising around 500 executives in Benets the group.
Based on this review, salaries were Executive directors received car-related benets, security assistance, increased by 3% on average, resulting in salaries of $1,854,000 for Bob insurance and medical benets.
Dudley, 731,500 for Dr Brian Gilvary and 797,000 for Iain Conn.
These increases took effect on 1 July 2014.
Annual bonus Provides a variable level of remuneration dependent on short-term performance against the annual plan.
Policy summary Operation and opportunity t 5PUBM PWFSBMM CPOVT CFGPSF BOZ EFGFSSBM JT CBTFE PO QFSGPSNBODF SFMBUJWF UP NFBTVSFT BOE UBSHFUT SFnFDUFE JO UIF BOOVBM QMBO XIJDI JO UVSO reects BPs strategy.
"t 0O UBSHFU CPOVT JT PG TBMBSZ XJUI BT NBYJNVN t ""DIJFWJOH BOOVBM QMBO PCKFDUJWFT FRVBUFT UP PO UBSHFU CPOVT 5IF MFWFM PG UISFTIPME QBZPVU GPS NJOJNVN QFSGPSNBODF WBSJFT BDDPSEJOH UP UIF nature of the measure in question."
"Performance framework t 4QFDJmD NFBTVSFT BOE UBSHFUT BSF EFUFSNJOFE FBDI ZFBS CZ UIF SFNVOFSBUJPO DPNNJUUFF t "" QSPQPSUJPO XJMM CF CBTFE PO TBGFUZ BOE PQFSBUJPOBM SJTL NBOBHFNFOU BOE JT MJLFMZ UP JODMVEF NFBTVSFT TVDI BT MPTT PG QSJNBSZ DPOUBJONFOU recordable injury frequency and tier 1 process safety events."
t 5 IF QSJODJpal measures of annual bonus will be based on value creation and may include financial measures such as operating cash ow, replacement cost operating profit and cost management, as well as operating measures such as major project delivery, downstream net income per barrel and upstream unplanned deferrals.
The specic metrics chosen each year will be set out and explained in the annual report on remuneration.
Framework Value made up 70% of group annual bonus objectives.
Measures included The committee determined performance measures and their weightings delivering operating cash ow in line with the 10-point plan: increasing for the 2014 annual bonus at the beginning of the performance year, underlying replacement cost profit: reducing corporate and functional focusing on two key priorities: safety and value.
costs: improving operating efficiency in upstream operations by minimizing unplanned deferrals: completing major projects planned within the year: Performance measures remained largely unchanged from last year in order and delivering downstream profit per barrel of rening capacity.
to maintain continuity and build momentum for delivery of the 10-point plan.
Measures and targets reected the business plan for the year and Iain Conns annual bonus was based 70% against the group annual bonus were set so that meeting plan would result in an on target bonus reward.
objectives and 30% against safety, operating efficiency and profitability performance of the downstream segment.
Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvarys annual bonus was based 100% on group annual bonus objectives.
Safety made up 30% of group annual bonus objectives.
Safety measures related to loss of primary containment, tier 1 process safety events and recordable injury frequency.
Challenging targets for these measures were set, both to build on the improving trend of the last three years and to continue to reduce the number of safety events.
76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance 2014 outcomes targeted reduction of 7%.
In terms of operational performance seven major In January 2015, the committee considered the groups performance during projects were successfully delivered in 2014 against the plan of six.
2014 against the measures and targets set out below.
Upstream unplanned deferrals were reduced by 6% against a targeted reduction of 9%.
Downstream net income per barrel of $4.4 bbl was below In safety, the committee recognized that ambitious targets had been set target of $6.4 bbl.
and the improvements in the year varied between the measures.
In loss of primary containment, the improvement was above the threshold but below Based on these results, the overall group performance score was 1.10. the target resulting in a weighted score of 7.96 out of 10: similarly in The committee, as is its normal practice, considered this result in the recordable injury frequency RIF the improvement was above the threshold context of the underlying financial performance of the group, competitors but below the target resulting in a weighted score of 6.07 out of 10. results, shareholder feedback and input from the board and other Importantly, these levels of performance still represented an improvement committees.
After review, it concluded that this result fairly represented the on the previous year.
Tier 1 process safety events did not reach the overall performance of the business during the year.
threshold expectation and therefore did not score.
The outcomes relative to In the downstream segment, safety results were good with improvements these targets were mixed, however the underlying trend remained positive, in loss of primary containment and process safety tier 2 events.
Operating reecting continued improvement over the past three years.
cash ow was ahead of plan but rening availability and net income per Operating cash ow of $32.8 billion was well ahead of target of $30 billion.
barrel were below plan expectations.
Underlying replacement cost profit of $12.1 billion was below target of A summary of the outcomes for each measure, set against the target for $14.5 billion.
Through greater simplication and efficiency across all the year, is shown below.
functions, corporate and functional costs were reduced by 9% against a 2014 annual cash bonus Safety Value Tier 1 Corporate Measures Loss of process Recordable Operating and Downstream Major Upstream Total Underlying primary safety injury cash replacement functional net income project unplanned a b b b containment events frequency ow cost profit costs bbl delivery deferrals Weight On target 10% 10% 10% 16.33% 16.33% 16.33% 7% 7% 7% 100% Maximum 20% 20% 20% 32.67% 32.67% 32.67% 14% 14% 14% 200% 110% Weighted 7.96 Nil 6.07 32.67 13.78 28.26 4.77 10.50 5.95 score outcome % 1.10 32.67% 28.26% Target Met Not met 13.78% 10.50% Group key 7.96% performance 6.07% 0% 5.95% 4.77% indicator 7% 6 project 9% Plan target 3-10% improvement $30bn $14.5bn $6.4 bbl reduction start-ups reduction 0.307 per 9% 7 project 6% Outcome 246 events 28 events $32.8bn $12.1bn $4.4 bbl 200k hrs reduction start-ups reduction a Dened by American Petroleum Institute API.
b Assessment of the financial outcomes was done using the same conditions as the targets were set at oil price, rening margin and other environmental factors were taken into account.
The overall bonus for directors was determined by multiplying the group Annual bonus summary score of 1.10 times target by the on-target bonus level of 150% of salary.
Overall bonus Paid in cash Deferred in BP shares Bob Dudleys total overall bonus was 165% of salary, as was Dr Brian Bob Dudley $3,014,550 $1,004,850 $2,009,700 Gilvarys.
Iain Conns total overall bonus was 159% of salary, based on Dr Brian Gilvary 1,189,238 396,413 792,825 both group and downstream segment performance accounting for 30% of Iain Conn 1,252,480 1,252,480 0 his bonus.
Under the terms of the deferred element of the EDIP, one third of the total bonus is paid in cash.
A director is required to defer a further third and the final third is paid either in cash or voluntarily deferred at the individuals election.
Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary have both elected to defer the final third of their annual bonus.
Iain Conn, who left at the end of the year, was not eligible for deferral and so all his bonus reecting his 12 months of service was paid in cash.
The following table outlines the amounts paid in cash and amounts deferred into shares.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 77 2015 implementation 2015 annual bonus measures For 2015, 100% of Bob Dudleys and Dr Brian Gilvarys bonus will be Strategic priorities based on group results.
The 2015 bonus plan has been set in the context of recent group achievements delivery of the 10-point plan, current short-term imperatives and the groups strategy.
The committee will continue to focus Clear Quality Distinctive on the two overall themes of safety and value.
In order to focus on priorities portfolio capabilities priorities of the short term, the number of value measures has been reduced from six in 2014 to five in 2015.
The measures reect the current short term imperatives and tie back to the 2015 priorities in the groups annual plan.
Targets for each measure are challenging but realistic and have been set in the context of the current environment.
Safety and operational risk 30% Value 70% Continued improvement in safety remains a group priority and is fully reected in the measures.
Safety will continue to have a 30% weight in the Operating cash ow 20% overall bonus plan.
The value measures are now more heavily weighted on Loss of primary containment 10% operating cash ow and underlying replacement cost profit.
Capital and Underlying replacement cost cost discipline are reected through two measures net investment profit 20% organic and corporate and functional cost management.
The delivery of Process safety tier 1 events 10% major projects remains a point of focus.
All of these value measures are Net investment organic 15% key to short-term performance within the group and will have an overall Corporate and functional costs 10% weight of 70% for the annual bonus 2015.
Recordable injury frequency 10% The committee agreed the performance measures for the 2015 annual Major project delivery 5% cash bonus as set out opposite.
Creating long-term shareholder value Targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2015 remuneration report to the extent that they are no longer considered commercially sensitive.
Deferred bonus Reinforces the long-term nature of the business and the importance of sustainability, linking a further part of remuneration to equity.
"Policy summary Operation and opportunity t "" UIJSE PG the annual bonus is required to be deferred and up to a further third can be deferred voluntarily."
This deferred bonus is awarded in shares.
t %FGFSSFE TIBSFT BSF NBUDIFE PO B POF GPS POF CBTJT BOE CPUI EFGFSSFE BOE NBUDIFE TIBSFT WFTU BGUFS UISFF ZFBST EFQFOEJOH PO BO BTTFTTNFOU CZ the committee of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year period.
t 8IFSF TIBSFT WFTU BEEJUJPOBM TIBSFT SFQSFTFOUJOH UIF WBMVF PG SFJOWFTUFE EJWJEFOET BSF BEEFE t #FGPSF CFJOH SFMFBTFE BMM NBUDIFE TIBSFT UIBU WFTU BGUFS UIF UISFF ZFBS QFSGPSNBODF QFSJPE BSF TVCKFDU BGUFS UBY UP BO BEEJUJPOBM UISFF ZFBS retention period.
Performance framework t #PUI EFGFSSFE BOE NBUDIFE TIBSFT NVTU QBTT BO BEEJUJPOBM IVSEMF SFMBUFE UP TBGFUZ BOE FOWJSPONFOUBM TVTUBJOBCJMJUZ QFSGPSNBODF JO PSEFS UP WFTU t G UIFSF IBT CFFO B NBUFSJBM EFUFSJPSBUJPO JO TBGFUZ BOE FOWJSPONFOUBM NFUSJDT PS UIFSF IBWF CFFO NBKPS JODJEFOUT SFWFBMJOH VOEFSMZJOH XFBLOFTTFT in safety and environmental management then the committee, with advice from the safety, ethics and environmental assurance committee, may conclude that shares vest in part, or not at all.
"t ""MM EFGFSSFE TIBSFT BSF TVCKFDU UP DMBXCBDL QSPWJTJPOT JG UIFZ BSF GPVOE UP IBWF CFFO HSBOUFE PO UIF CBTJT PG NBUFSJBMMZ NJTTUBUFE mOBODJBM PS PUIFS EBUB 2014 outcomes 2011 deferred bonus vesting Total shares Total Both Bob Dudley and Iain Conn deferred two thirds of their 2011 annual Shares Vesting including value bonus in accordance with the terms of the policy in place at the time of Name deferred agreed dividends at vesting deferral."
Bob Dudley 436,824 100% 505,782 $3,401,384 The three-year performance period concluded at the end of 2014.
The Iain Conn 322,608 100% 380,785 1,698,301 committee reviewed safety and environmental sustainability performance over this period and sought the input of the safety, ethics and environment Dr Brian Gilvary participated in a separate deferred bonus plan prior to his assurance committee SEEAC.
Over the three-year period 2012-2014 appointment as an executive director and details of this are provided in the safety measures showed steady improvement.
All performance hurdles table on page 84. were met and the group-wide operating management system is now sufciently embedded throughout the organization to continue driving Details of the deferred bonus awards made to the executive directors in improvement in environmental as well as safety areas.
early 2014, in relation to 2013 annual bonuses, were set out in last years report.
A summary of these awards is included on page 84.
Following the committees review, full vesting of the deferred and matched shares for the 2011 deferred bonus was approved, as shown in the 2015 implementation following table as well as in the single gure table on page 75.
The committee has determined that the safety and environmental sustainability hurdle will continue to apply to shares deferred from the 2014 bonus.
All matched shares that vest in 2018 will, after sufficient shares have been sold to pay tax, be subject to an additional three-year retention period before being released to the individual in 2021.
This further reinforces long-term shareholder alignment and the nature of the groups business.
Both Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary deferred two thirds of their 2014 annual bonus.
78 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance Performance shares Ties the largest part of remuneration to long-term performance.
The level varies according to performance relative to measures linked directly to strategic priorities.
Policy summary Operation and opportunity t 4IBSFT VQ UP B NBYJNVN WBMVF PG mWF BOE B IBMG UJNFT TBMBSZ GPS UIF HSPVQ DIJFG FYFDVUJWF BOE GPVS UJNFT TBMBSZ GPS UIF PUIFS FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST can be awarded annually.
t 7FTUJOH PG TIBSFT BGUFS UISFF ZFBST JT EFQFOEFOU PO QFSGPSNBODF SFMBUJWF UP NFBTVSFT BOE UBSHFUT SFnFDUJOH #1 T TUSBUFHZ t 8IFSF TIBSFT WFTU BEEJUJPOBM TIBSFT SFQSFTFOUJOH UIF WBMVF PG SFJOWFTUFE EJWJEFOET BSF BEEFE t #FGPSF CFJOH SFMFBTFE UIPTF TIBSFT UIBU WFTU BGUFS UIF UISFF ZFBS QFSGPSNBODF QFSJPE BSF TVCKFDU BGUFS UBY UP BO BEEJUJPOBM UISFF ZFBS SFUFOUJPO period.
Performance framework t 1FSGPSNBODF TIBSFT XJMM WFTU PO UIF GPMMPXJOH UISFF QFSGPSNBODF NFBTVSFT t 5PUBM TIBSFIPMEFS SFUVSO SFMBUJWF UP PUIFS PJM NBKPST t 0QFSBUJOH DBTI nPX t 4USBUFHJD JNQFSBUJWFT t. FBTVSFT CBTFE PO SFMBUJWF QFSGPSNBODF UP PJM NBKPST XJMM WFTU GPS mSTU TFDPOE BOE UIJSE QMBDF mOJTI SFTQFDUJWFMZ BOE GPS fourth or fifth position.
t 5IF DPNNJUUFF JEFOUJmFT UIF TQFDJmD TUSBUFHJD JNQFSBUJWFT UP CF JODMVEFE FWFSZ ZFBS BOE NBZ BMTP BMUFS UIF PUIFS NFBTVSFT JG PUIFST BSF EFFNFE to be more aligned to strategic priorities.
These are explained in the annual report on remuneration.
t 5IF DPNNJUUFF NBZ FYFSDJTF KVEHFNFOU UP BEKVTU WFTUJOH PVUDPNFT JG JU DPODMVEFT UIBU UIF GPSNVMBJD BQQSPBDI EPFT OPU SFnFDU UIF USVF VOEFSMZJOH performance of the companys business or is inconsistent with shareholder benets.
"t ""MM QFSGPSNBODF TIBSFT BSF TVCKFDU UP DMBXCBDL QSPWJTJPOT JG UIFZ BSF GPVOE UP IBWF CFFO HSBOUFE PO UIF CBTJT PG NBUFSJBMMZ NJTTUBUFE mOBODJBM PS other data."
Framework Relative TSR did not achieve the minimum required for any vesting.
The Performance shares were conditionally awarded to each executive director significant weight associated with this measure one third in total aligns in 2012.
Maximum awards under the policy were granted representing the actual value delivered to executive directors with that to shareholders.
 salary for Bob Dudley and four-times salary for Operating cash ow, representing a further one third of the award, was Dr Brian Gilvary and Iain Conn. Vesting of these awards was subject to $32.8 billion.
This notably exceeded the target set in 2011 to increase delivering targets set over the three-year performance period.
operating cash ow by more than 50% between 2012 and 2014 at $100 bbl.
Consequently, maximum shares for this component will vest.
One third of the award was based on relative total shareholder return TSR, one third on operating cash ow and one third on strategic Strategic imperatives represented the final third.
These included relative imperatives which were relative reserves replacement ratio RRR, safety RRR, S&OR, and rebuilding trust internally and externally.
These elements and operational risk S&OR and rebuilding trust internally and externally, all are discussed individually below.
Again, performance against each of these measures Preliminary assessment of BPs relative RRR indicated a positive outcome was designed to be aligned with group strategy, future direction and with a minimum expected second place amongst the comparator group.
The final ranking will be determined once the actual results for 2014 have Relative TSR represents the change in value of a BP shareholding between been published by other comparator companies.
For the purposes of this the average of the fourth quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2014 report, and in accordance with the UK regulations, second place has been compared to other oil majors dividends are re-invested.
Any adjustment to this will be reported in next years annual organic reserves added over the three-year performance period divided by report on remuneration.
Based on a provisional second place assessment, the reserves extracted.
This ratio is ranked against like-for-like organic RRR 7.8% of the maximum of 11.1% shares are expected to vest for RRR.
for other oil major peers.
S&OR has improved signicantly over the 2012-2014 period.
Loss of The 2012-2014 comparator group for relative TSR 33.3% weight and primary containment showed a reduction of 32%, the number of reported relative RRR 11.1% weight was Chevron, ExxonMobil, Shell and Total.
work related incidents RIFs reduced by 15% and tier 1 process safety The number of conditional shares that would vest for each of the relative events reduced by 62%.
The underlying trend of continuing improvement performance measures for first, second and third place was set at the start over the past three years has been very positive.
Consequently, the of 2012 and equals 100%, 70% and 35% respectively.
This reects the maximum of 11.1% shares will vest for the safety measures.
approved rules applicable to the 2012-2014 plan.
No shares would vest for In 2011, shortly after the Deepwater Horizon incident, restoring trust both fourth or fifth place.
externally and internally was an important priority for the group and, as For S&OR, percentage improvement targets were set.
For rebuilding trust such, featured as one of the strategic imperatives of the plan.
Since then, measures, the committee determined that it would use qualitative and external and internal trust has been measured by surveys conducted with quantitative data to assess the improvement of external and internal external audiences and internally with employees.
External trust is tracked perception of the group and to gauge whether trust was being rebuilt.
through six indicators with key stakeholders in the US and UK.
Over the Judgement would then be exercised as appropriate.
three years, external surveys showed improvements ranging from one to 2014 outcomes six percent with different external audiences.
The committee considered the performance of the group over the Employee engagement is assessed by an index which measures three-year period of the plan and the specic achievements against each of employees perceptions of BP including understanding of business the targets set for the measures.
Based on a preliminary assessment of priorities, trust in BP leaders and confidence in BPs future strategy.
This relative RRR, 60.5% of the shares awarded in the 2012-2014 plan are index has shown a four percent improvement since 2011 and a two expected to vest.
percent improvement since 2012 across different levels of the organization.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 79 Defined on page 252.
The results of this index were benchmarked against external data and were The vested shares for current executive directors are subject to a further particularly encouraging.
three-year retention period before they will be released to the individuals in 2018.
Recognizing the need to make further progress in this area, the committee determined that 8.3% of the maximum 11.1% of shares will vest for the 2012-2014 performance shares preliminary outcome rebuilding trust measure.
Shares Shares vested Value of awarded inc dividends vested shares As in past years, the committee also considered the overall performance of Bob Dudley 1,343,712 941,286 $6,391,332 the group during the period and whether any other factors should be taken Dr Brian Gilvary 624,434 445,912 1,904,044 into account.
Following this review, the committee assessed that a preliminary 60.5% vesting was a fair reection of the overall performance Iain Conn 660,633 471,761 2,014,419 pending conrmation of the reserves replacement result.
This will result in the vesting shown in the table.
The measures, targets and weight for the plan as well as, on a preliminary basis, the outcomes achieved are shown below.
2012-2014 performance shares vesting Relative Measures Relative total reserves shareholder Operating replacement Rebuilding Total a return cash ow ratio Safety trust Weight at maximum 33.3% 33.3% 11.1% 11.1% 11.1% 100% Outcome % Nil 33.3% 7.8% 11.1% 8.3% 60.5% 0% 33.3 Met Not met 11.1 8.3 7.8 Group key performance indicator Outperform Outperform Improvement Plan target $30bn Improvement peers peers 10-15% b Outcome Fifth $32.8bn Second 15-62% Met a Safety includes loss of primary containment, tier 1 process safety event dened by API and recordable injury frequency.
2011-2013 final outcomes conrmation 2015-2017 performance shares Last year it was reported that the committee had made a preliminary Strategic priorities assessment of second place for the relative RRR in the 2011-2013 performance shares element.
In May 2014 the committee reviewed the results for all comparator companies as published in their reports and accounts and assessed that BP was in first place relative to other oil majors and that the full 20% of shares would vest for this performance measure Clear Quality Distinctive as opposed to 14% for second place.
This resulted in a final vesting of priorities portfolio capabilities 45.5% from 39.5% for the entire award.
This is reected in the single gure table on page 75.
2015 implementation Shares were awarded in February 2015 to the maximum value allowed under the policy,  salary for Bob Dudley and four-times Total shareholder return 1 3 salary for Dr Brian Gilvary see table on page 85.
These have been awarded under the performance share element of the EDIP and are Cumulative operating cash ow 1 3 subject to a three-year performance period.
Those shares that vest are Safety and operational risk subject, after tax, to an additional three-year retention period.
The 2015-2017 performance share element will be assessed over three years Strategic priorities 1 3 Reserves replacement based on the following measures: relative TSR one third : cumulative operating cash ow one third : and strategic imperatives one third Major project delivery including relative RRR: S&OR risk assessment: and major project delivery.
Creating long-term shareholder value 80 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance These measures continue to be aligned with BPs strategic priorities of Relative performance ranking Vesting percentage for each safe, reliable and compliant operations, major project delivery, disciplined BPs ranking place versus oil majors relative performance measure financial choices and growing our exploration position.
First 100% TSR and RRR will be assessed on a relative basis compared with the other Second 80% oil majors Chevron, ExxonMobil, Shell and Total with the following vesting schedule.
Third 25% Fourth or fifth Nil The committee has agreed targets and ranges for measures that will be used to assess performance at the end of the three-year performance period and will be disclosed retrospectively.
Pension Recognizes competitive practice in home country.
Policy summary Operation and opportunity t &YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST QBSUJDJQBUF JO UIF DPNQBOZ QFOTJPO TDIFNFT UIBU BQQMZ JO UIFJS IPNF DPVOUSZ t $VSSFOU 6, FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST SFNBJO PO B EFmOFE CFOFmU pension plan and receive a cash supplement of 35% of salary in lieu of future service accrual when they exceed the annual allowance set by legislation.
"t $VSSFOU 64 FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST QBSUJDJQBUF JO USBOTJUJPO BSSBOHFNFOUT SFMBUFE UP IFSJUBHF QMBOT PG ""NPDP BOE ""SDP BOE OPSNBM EFmOFE CFOFmU QMBOT that apply to executives with an accrual rate of 1.3% of final earnings salary plus bonus for each year of service."
Performance framework t 1FOTJPO JO UIF 6, JT OPU EJSFDUMZ MJOLFE UP QFSGPSNBODF t 1FOTJPO JO UIF 64 JODMVEFT CPOVT JO EFUFSNJOJOH CFOFmU MFWFM Framework In the event of retirement before age 60, the following early retirement Executive directors are eligible to participate in group pension schemes terms would apply: that apply in their home countries which follow national norms in terms of t On retirement between 55 and 60, in circumstances approved by the structure and levels.
committee, an immediate unreduced pension in respect of the proportion US pension of their benefit for service up to 30 November 2006, and subject to such Bob Dudley participates in the US plans.
Pension benets in the US are reduction as the scheme actuary certies in respect of the period of provided through a combination of tax-qualied and non-qualied benefit service after 1 December 2006.
The scheme actuary has, to date, plans, consistent with applicable US tax regulations.
The BP retirement applied a reduction of 3% per annum for each year retirement precedes accumulation plan US pension plan is a US tax-qualied plan that features 60 in respect of the period of service from 1 December 2006 up to the a cash balance formula and includes grandfathering provisions under final leaving date: however a greater reduction can be applied in other average pay formulas for certain employees of companies acquired by BP circumstances.
including Amoco and ARCO who participated in these predecessor t On leaving before age 55, in circumstances approved by the company pension plans.
The TNK-BP supplemental retirement plan is a committee, a deferred pension payable from 55 or later, with early lump sum benefit based on the same calculation as the benefit under the retirement terms if it is paid before 60 as set out above.
US pension plan but reecting service and earnings at TNK-BP.
Irrespective of this, on leaving in circumstances of total incapacity, an The BP excess compensation retirement plan excess compensation plan immediate unreduced pension is payable from their leaving date.
provides a supplemental benefit which is the difference between 1 the benefit accrual under the US pension plan and the TNK-BP supplemental On leaving BP, Iain Conn is entitled to a deferred pension payable from age retirement plan without regard to the IRS compensation limit including for 55 or later.
The early retirement terms applying to this pension are as set this purpose base salary, cash bonus and bonus deferred into a out above.
compulsory or voluntary award under the deferred matching element of 2014 outcomes the EDIP, and 2 the actual benefit payable under the US pension plan and In 2014, Mr Dudleys accrued pension increased, net of ination, by the TNK-BP supplemental retirement plan, applying the IRS compensation $130,000: Dr Gilvarys by 1,100 and Mr Conns by 900.
The benefit calculation under the Amoco formula includes a reduction have been reected in the single gure table on page 75 by multiplying of 5% per year if taken before age 60. them by twenty in accordance with the requirements of the UK regulations.
The BP Supplemental Executive Retirement benefit plan SERB is a Dr Gilvary and Mr Conn participate in the UK pension arrangements supplemental plan based on a target of 1.3% of final average earnings described above.
Both individuals have exceeded the annual or lifetime including, for this purpose, base salary plus cash bonus and bonus allowance under UK pensions legislation and, in accordance with the policy, deferred into a compulsory or voluntary award under the deferred matching receive a cash supplement of 35% of salary.
These cash supplements have element of the EDIP for each year of service without regard for tax limits been separately identied in the single gure table on page 75. less benets paid under all other BP US qualied and non-qualied Mr Dudley participates in the transitional arrangements in the US plans pension arrangements.
The benefit payable under SERB is unreduced at described above.
These are aimed at an accrual rate of 1.3% of final age 60 but reduced by 5% per year if separation occurs before age 60. earnings which include salary and bonus, for each year of service.
Benets payable under this plan are unfunded and therefore paid from The committee continues to keep under review the increase in the value of corporate assets.
pension benets for individual directors.
There are significant differences in UK pension calculation of pensions between the UK and the US.
US pension benets Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary participate in a UK final salary pension are not subject to cost of living adjustments after retirement as they are in scheme in respect of service prior to 1 April 2011.
This scheme provides a the UK.
Equally, transfer values are frequently inuenced by changes in pension relating to length of pensionable service and final pensionable interest rates and discount factors.
The disclosure of total pension includes any cash in lieu of additional The committee will continue to make the required disclosures in accrual that is paid to individuals in the UK scheme who have exceeded the accordance with the UK regulations: however, given the issues and annual allowance or lifetime allowance under UK regulations.
Both Iain differences set out above, the committee would note that 12 to 14 would Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary fall into this category and in 2014 received cash be a typical annuity factor in the US compared with the factor of 20 upon supplements of 35% of salary in lieu of future service accrual.
which the UK regulations are based.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 81
