Private investors Shareholder engagement BP held a further event for private investors in conjunction with the UK The company operates an active investor relations programme and the Shareholders Association UKSA in 2014.
The chairman and head of board receives feedback on shareholder views through results of an investor relations made presentations on BPs annual results, strategy and anonymous investor audit and reports from management and those the work of the board.
The shareholders asked questions on BPs directors who met with shareholders over the year.
Later in the year, the UKSA met with the company to give feedback on the BP Strategic Report 2013.
Shareholder engagement cycle 2014 January BP Energy Outlook 2035 presentation AGM February Fourth quarter results Voting levels decreased slightly in 2014 to 63.13% of issued share capital, Investor roadshows with executive management including votes cast as withheld, compared to 64.24% in 2013 and 63.24% in 2012.
Each year the board receives a report after the AGM March Strategy update presentation to investors giving a breakdown of the votes and investor feedback on their voting Chairman and board committee chairs meeting decisions for the meeting to inform the board on any issues arising.
Engagement on remuneration and governance issues UK Corporate Governance Code compliance UKSA private shareholders meeting BP complied throughout 2014 with the provisions of the UK Corporate SRI updates unconventional gas Governance Code, except in the following aspects: and hydraulic fracturing: and oil sands SRI roadshow on BP Sustainability Review 2013 B.
3.2 Letters of appointment do not set out xed-time commitments since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject April US legal issues conference call to change according to the demands of business and other events.
Annual General Meeting All directors are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the First quarter results work of the board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the June Launch of BP Statistical Review of World Energy nomination committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
July Second quarter results Publication of the BP proposition on bp.
com D. 2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration Investor roadshows with the group CEO committee.
Instead the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by and CFO the remuneration committee which makes a recommendation to the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set August Engagement with UKSA private shareholder by shareholders.
This wider process enables all board members panel on BPs 2013 financial reports to discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration rather than September US legal issues conference call solely the members of the remuneration committee.
Oil and gas sector conferences October Third quarter results December Engagement on remuneration Group SRI meeting Upstream strategy presentation Institutional investors Senior management regularly meet with institutional investors through roadshows, group and one-to-one meetings and events for socially responsible investors.
During the year the chairman, senior independent director and chairs of the audit and remuneration committees held individual investor meetings to discuss strategy, the boards view on BPs performance, governance, audit and remuneration.
An annual investor event was held in March 2014 with the chairman and all the board committee chairs.
This meeting enables BPs largest shareholders to hear about the work of the board and its committees and for non-executive directors to engage with investors.
In December the chairman and members of the executive team met with socially responsible investors as part of BPs annual SRI meeting.
The meeting examined a number of operational and strategic issues, including how the board looks at risk and strategy, BPs Energy Outlook 2035, how the company approaches operational risk, upstream contractor management, technology and BPs portfolio.
com investors to download materials from investor presentations, including the groups financial results and information on the work of the board and its committees.
62 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
