STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit Committee Report Shirley Garrood Chairman of the Audit Committee The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its Terms of COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Reference, which are designed to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities for: The members of the Audit Committee at 30 June 2014 were: Shirley Garrood Chairman Chartered Accountant appointed 25 monitoring the financial reporting process including the integrity October 2013 of our annual and interim reports, preliminary results and any other Chris Barling appointed 26 August 2010 formal announcements relating to financial performance: Dharmash Mistry appointed 3 October 2011 ensuring that the integrity of our Annual Report and Financial Stephen Robertson appointed 3 October 2011 Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides shareholders with the information necessary to access Jonathan Bloomer, who was previously Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Companys performance, business model and strategy: retired from the Board on 25 October 2013. reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems: All members of the Committee are independent.
The biographies of monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Committee members can be found on pages 32 to 33.
Audit function: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to On an on-going basis, membership of the Committee is reviewed by the shareholders for their approval in general meetings in relation to the Chairman of the Committee and any recommendations for new the appointment or removal of the external auditor and the approval appointments are made to the Nomination Committee for onward of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: recommendation to the Board.
During the year a new Chairman reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and was appointed.
Appointments are for a period of three years and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into are extendable by no more than two additional three-year periods.
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the inclusion of at least and one member with recent and relevant financial experience and our overseeing the Groups procedures for public interest disclosure Committee Chairman currently fulfils this requirement.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee members and on-going training to enable all of the Committee members The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying any to carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time commitment is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
by members, and an overview of the Groups business, including the However, the Board retains ultimate responsibility for reviewing and main business and financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee approving financial reports and other public statements.
members also meet some of the Groups staff, as appropriate.
On-going training includes attendance at formal conferences, internal briefings and The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual briefings by external advisers.
General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 MEETINGS Significant financial judgments and financial reporting for 2014 The Audit Committee meets at least four times each year but more As part of its work in the year, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the frequently when required, and met four times during this financial Board, has examined the Annual Report and Financial Statements, year.
The attendance by each director is set out in the table on page Interim Report and Financial Statements, the Interim Management 38.
The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Statements, related disclosures, consistency of accounting policies Financial Officer and Chief Executive are routinely invited to, and attend, and the financial reporting process.
This has included the review the majority of meetings, although the Committee reserves the right to and approval of the Annual Report, and consideration of the Income request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The external auditor also Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial attended all meetings.
Position, Statement of Changes in Equity, Going Concern statement and the Statement of Cash Flows, with an emphasis on ensuring that these In between the formal schedule of meetings the Committee Chairman are fair, balanced and understandable.
keeps in regular contact with the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit, Chief Risk Officer and the Senior Engagement As part of the review of the Annual Report, the Audit Committee has Partner of the external auditor.
considered various issues and discussed how these are addressed: The most significant of these are the basis for revenue recognition OVERVIEW OF THE ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE TO and the impact of RDR.
The Committee has also considered the DISCHARGE ITS DUTIES valuation of share based payments.
Whilst considering these issues, the Committee received information from the Chief Financial Officer In discharging its responsibilities the Audit Committee concentrated on 4 and the external auditor, and also received specific training regarding main areas: the valuation of share based payments.
Increased confidence has been derived from the change in external audit approach such that 1.
Financial Reporting revenue streams were recalculated on 100% of our most significant 2.
Internal controls and key risks revenue streams, with sample based testing on the remainder.
The external audit has also included a benchmarking exercise of our IT 3.
Effectiveness of internal audit controls, and a review of counterparty balances.
Effectiveness and independence of the external auditor Committee concluded that the basis of accounting and disclosure is appropriate.
The Audit Committee has also conducted a self-assessment of its own effectiveness for the year and was satisfied with the results achieved The Committee evaluated whether the going concern basis of and has agreed actions where improvements were suggested.
accounting was appropriate by assessing the ICAAP and forecasts.
This included a review of possible extreme stress scenarios.
The Committee concluded that the liquidity and capital position of the 1.
Financial Reporting Group remained appropriate.
With support and input from the external auditor, the Committee has The Company has in place arrangements to ensure that the Annual considered, challenged and reviewed financial reporting for the Group, Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and assessed whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, provides shareholders with the information necessary to assess the whether management have made appropriate estimates and judgements Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee and whether disclosures in published financial statements were fair, examined the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements and was balanced and understandable.
specifically tasked by the Board to advise it on whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee has also considered, challenged and reviewed regular financial management information, the Groups internal capital adequacy The Committee did this by satisfying itself that there is a robust assessment process ICAAP document and risk appetite statement process of challenge, including challenge by the Committee itself.
Committees own challenge process included questioning the Chief Executive on the overall messages and tone of his review statement, The integrity of the financial statements is underpinned by the control examining and challenging reports from both management and the environment.
In this regard, the Committee has considered risk and external auditor relating to the Annual Report, and reviewing consistency control reports from the Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer, and with internal reports presented to the Board by management, the Chief the Compliance Officer and satisfied itself that the integrity of the control Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Chief Risk Officer during environment supporting the financial reporting and disclosure process is the year.
After challenge and debate and consideration of all relevant appropriate.
information, the Committee concluded that it could recommend to the Board that the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
40 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Internal controls and key risks former employees of the external auditors and for the recruitment of our employees by them.
The policy further states that our external The Audit Committee receives reports at each meeting from Compliance auditor may only be used for non-audit work where there are specific and Risk, as well as Internal Audit.
The Committee challenged the circumstances which mean they are the only firm able to provide a good key executives on the content and veracity of those reports and the service at an acceptable price.
There were no non-audit fees during Committee has been satisfied that appropriate arrangements, actions or 2014 2013: nil.
Fees for the audit for 2014 were 118,000 2013: mitigating controls are in place.
Topics addressed this year included: 116,000.
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor and the external auditor has confirmed to the Committee that they remain independent.
The project to upgrade and enhance our IT operating platform IT security, including cyber risk As flagged in our 2013 Annual Report, following a competitive tender Considering the impact of the website outage experienced due to process carried out in 2013, PwC replaced Deloitte as our external exceptionally high volumes of activity during the Royal Mail IPO and auditor for the current financial year onwards with engagement terms resulting lessons learned settled by the Committee.
The tender process included assessing Monitoring CASS and client money reports the auditors audit approach and delivery, the composition of the Reviewing the Risk Management arrangements including the engagement team, audit quality and fees and terms.
As part of this assessment of the top ten key risks, potential impact and resulting evaluation the Audit Committee assessed the independence, objectivity actions.
and compliance with ethical and regulatory standards.
Reflecting the fact that 2014 was both the external auditors and the 3.
Effectiveness of Internal Audit Committee Chairmans first year, there was continuous engagement with PwC.
The focus was on examining their audit plans, discussing The Audit Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities PwCs approach to materiality, and discussing their observations at relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit each Audit Committee since their appointment.
Internal Audit presents its plans for audit, using a risk based those outlined as part of the tender process and they adhered to the approach, to the Committee twice a year for prioritisation and approval.
standards we assessed them against at that time.
The Audit Committee The Internal Audit charter can be found on our website at www.
met with the external auditor privately this year in order to discuss any matters directly with the Senior Engagement Partner in the absence of Having conducted a review of the Internal Audit department the management.
Committee is happy with both its resources and plans.
The Institute of Internal Auditors recommend that an external review of the Internal The Committee is satisfied with the performance and effectiveness of Audit function is carried out no less than every five years.
Our Internal PwC and has concluded that PwC continues to display the necessary Audit function had a satisfactory external review carried out in May attributes of independence and objectivity.
The external auditor will be asked to attend the AGM and will be The Audit Committee met with the Head of Internal Audit privately available to answer shareholders questions about the audit and their this year in order to discuss any matters directly in the absence of report found on page 59. management.
Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Effectiveness and independence of the external auditor Shirley Garrood Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, 16 September 2014 implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day responsibility to the Chief Financial Officer.
The policy states that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The Groups policy on external audit can be found on the Groups website at www.
co. uk and it is regularly reviewed to ensure that the independence and objectivity of our external auditors is maintained.
It sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels and Audit Committee Chairman approval.
The policy establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 41
