Corporate Governance Report Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code We support the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Governance Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The FRC introduced a number if it does not reflect such compliance: no such report has been made.
of new requirements into the Code, for financial years ending on or after 30 September 2013, for the Directors to confirm that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
This is the first year that this requirement applies to Hargreaves Lansdown plc and although we have always believed that our annual report meets these criteria, we reviewed The Board our processes this year to ensure that we can provide the necessary confirmation and have the evidence to back up this statement.
In order to assist the Board in making this confirmation, we asked the Audit ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD Committee to provide advice on this point, and further detail of the review and process in place can be found in the Audit Committee report.
The Board has overall responsibility for the management and performance of the Group.
It sets the strategic direction of the Group, monitors We consider that the Group complied with all of the provisions of the Code performance, determines the appropriate risk appetite, and ensures throughout the year ended 30 June 2014 and can confirm that the Board bethat sufficient resources in talent and capital are in place to achieve lieves the Annual Report and Financial Statements for 2014, taken as a whole, the objectives set and ensures solid succession planning for senior are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary management.
It ensures that risk, regulatory and compliance management for shareholders to assess our performance, business model and strategy.
within the Group is effective.
The Board reviews performance, including that of the senior management and senior executives.
The Board is also During the year ended 30 June 2014, Hargreaves Lansdown plc confirms it responsible for engaging with shareholders.
It is the decision-making body has applied the principles of the Code with the following exceptions: for all other matters deemed material to the Group in strategic, financial and reputational terms.
Board effectiveness and performance evaluation The Executive Directors are directly responsible for running the business We did not comply with Section B.
6.1 of the Code which states that the operations.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for constructively evaluation of the Board should be externally facilitated at least every challenging proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance of three years.
This year, as per the three previous years, the Board carried management, determining levels of remuneration and for succession out an internally facilitated review, led by the Chairman.
Prior to deciding planning for the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors must to perform an internal review, the Board debated the issue having due also satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that regard to the requirements of the Code.
In reaching its decision the Board financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
took account of the following factors: the Group had enjoyed another successful business year, the previous internally led evaluations have led The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that obligations to to positive developments and the presence of the largest shareholder on shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, and that the Board ensures that the Boards focus remains on driving shareholder a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
Finally the culture of the Group is to avoid unnecessary equally accountable to our shareholders for the proper stewardship of our discretionary spending and the Board deemed the prospective costs of affairs and the success of the Company.
an externally facilitated review would outweigh the likely additional value and therefore not in the best interest of shareholders.
Except for a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, the Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Group to the 2.
We did not comply with Section D. 2.3 of the Code which states that Chief Executive who is supported by the Executive Committee and senior remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should be made within the management.
The Chief Executive and Executive Directors of the Group limits set in the Articles of Association.
Retrospective approval for are responsible to the Board for developing strategy and the profitability these payments will be sought at the Companys AGM on 24 October and overall performance of the Group.
2014, and a resolution increasing the remuneration limit will be put to shareholders.
There is a documented schedule of matters which are reserved for Board decision and approval.
These matters are significant to the Group Further explanation of how the main principles and supporting principles of as a whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational implications, the Code have been applied is set out in this Corporate Governance statement and include, but are not limited to, the agreement of strategies, and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
A copy of the Code is publicly recommendation of dividends, approval of acquisitions and major available on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
In addition, it is only the Board which can appoint and remove Directors and our Company Secretary.
The Board also has The Companys auditor, PwC, is required to review whether the above statement overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and risk reflects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate management.
Risk management arrangements are described below.
32 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance framework Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board External audit Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committees committee committee committee Internal audit Executive committee and Non-Board committees Investment Treasury Interest rate IT Steering Risk committee committee committee Group committee GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK have given due regard to provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Board has concluded that Dharmash Mistry, Stephen The Group operates within a clear governance framework, which is Robertson, Chris Barling and Shirley Garrood were independent directors outlined in the diagram above and set out in the report that follows.
The throughout the financial year.
Jonathan Bloomer was an independent Groups internal control and risk management framework is described director until his retirement from the Board.
Michael Evans was below in the Internal Controls section.
independent on appointment as Chairman.
Chris Barling is currently the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to the Board Committees to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
DIVERSITY Other non-board committees form part of the Corporate Governance framework, but are not formally appointed committees of the Board.
These When assessing new appointments to our Board, we review carefully the committees feed back to the main Board and Board Committees via an combined skills and experience of the existing Board members to determine Executive Director where appropriate.
what characteristics we are looking for from a new director.
Each member of the Hargreaves Lansdown Board must have the skills, experience and character that will enable each director to contribute both individually, and BOARD SIZE, COMPOSITION AND CHANGES DURING THE YEAR as part of the team, to the effectiveness of the Board and the success of the Company.
We believe that diversity amongst Board members is of great As at 30 June 2014 there were eight Directors on the Board: the Chairman, value but that diversity is a far wider subject than just gender.
We will give four independent Non-Executive Directors, and three Executive Directors.
careful consideration to issues of overall Board balance and diversity in The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board making new appointments to the Board.
and, in particular the Nominations Committee, to ensure that there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills and experience.
As of today, the Board numbers eight in total, of which three are executive and five independent including the Chairman.
Female directors constitute During the year, the following changes were made: 25% of the Board and 14% of the Executive Committee 25% when including Jonathan Bloomer retired from the Board as a Non-Executive Director the Company Secretary.
Subject to the requirements set out above, on 25 October 2013: and Hargreaves Lansdown will aim to maintain female representation on the Shirley Garrood was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Board at least at the current level and give due consideration to increasing Director on 25 October 2013. the level if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
Details on our Board members, including other directorships, are on A copy of our full statement on Board Diversity can be found on page 31. www.
INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS THE ROLES OF CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE The Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant to the Board The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined, separate in determining whether each Non-Executive Director is independent.
We and approved by the Board.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 The Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and governance are considered by the Board to be eligible.
All current directors wish of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
In to be re-elected and the Board confirms that all individual performance conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the reviews demonstrated that the directors continue to demonstrate effective Chairman plans agenda items and timings for Board meetings.
The performance and commitment to their roles.
Chairman ensures that the membership of the Board is appropriate to the needs of the business and that Board committees carry out their duties, including reporting back to the Board.
TRAINING The Chief Executive has executive responsibilities for the operations, Our Chairman is responsible for preparing and implementing a results and strategic development of the Group.
He is responsible for the personalised induction programme for all new Directors, to include delivery of strategy and leads the executive management team.
guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of the Company.
We believe that the best way to learn about a business is to spend time within it, and we encourage new Directors to spend time with BOARD SUPPORT our senior managers and executives in a number of business areas and to receive demonstrations of key operations and systems where relevant.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied Every director has access to appropriate training throughout their with and that the Board is advised on governance and relevant regulatory appointment as director and we regularly assess the requirement for matters.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
director training as part of each directors annual appraisal.
In order for Directors to fulfil their duties they can also seek independent Our overall objective is to maintain and enhance professional standards professional advice, at the Companys expense.
We believe that these standards are particularly important for all staff who fall under the scope of the FCA Training and Competence rules.
All staff under the scope of these rules are required to BOARD MEETINGS perform certain training annually.
The Board convenes at least four times each financial year and the Board convened nine times in the last financial year.
Five of these were physical BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION meetings and four were conference calls.
This year, the Board carried out an internally facilitated Board Physical meetings are held in such a way as to encourage robust and effectiveness review.
The review was led by the Chairman and covered the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its individual Directors and its constructive challenge and debate which enables the Non-Executive Committees.
One to one discussions were held between the Chairman Directors to use their knowledge and experience to critically review and the Non-Executive Directors and between the Chairman and the strategies proposed by management.
This approach ensures that we act Chief Executive.
All Directors were given the opportunity to provide in the long-term best interests of our shareholders.
comments on the draft report.
The effectiveness review was discussed and approved at the Board meeting in August 2014.
The conclusion From July 2013, as a direct result of the Board Effectiveness review last was that, despite the focus of the work of the Board being dominated year, the Board introduced interim Board meetings to fall between the four by the RDR, the Boards effectiveness had improved over the year.
main Board meetings, which take place in the form of conference calls.
The increased number of meetings had helped and a greater focus These further help the Non-Executive Directors to keep fully informed on strategy and its implementation had been achieved.
Greater input of recent developments and ensure that Directors fully work together to and challenge had been provided by the Non-Executive Directors both ensure the smooth running of the business.
inside and outside the Board meetings.
As always, there is room for improvement and a number of actions have been agreed to be pursued Between Board meetings, Directors are also provided with monthly in the coming year which should deliver further improvements.
information packs which include detailed commentary and analysis.
To ensure that Directors are as fully informed as possible, minutes are Individual appraisal of each Executive Directors performance is undertaken circulated from each Committee, including the Executive Committee, and by either the Chief Executive or Chairman each year and involves meetings each Board meeting includes a report from the Committee Chairmen as with each director on a one-to-one basis.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have also held led by the Senior Independent Director, carry out an appraisal of the meetings separate to those with the Executive Directors, including meeting performance of the Chairman.
The Chief Executives performance was with the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit.
evaluated by the Chairman with input from the rest of the Board.
DIRECTORS OTHER INFORMATION Under the existing Articles of Association all directors have to submit Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share capital, themselves for re-election annually if they wish to continue serving and 34 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the powers of directors and amendments to the Articles of Association Jonathan Bloomer was on the Committee until his retirement from the that is required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in Board on 25 October 2013.
The Nomination Committee meets at least the Directors Report on pages 55 to 57. twice each year and the Committee met twice during this year.
The attendance by each director is set out in the table on page 38.
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment Board committees of new directors to the Board.
The process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by existing Board members, by an external search company, or via searches This section of the report sets out how the Board and its Committees performed by the Company itself.
Consideration will be given to ensure work within the Groups governance framework and corporate appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that governance guidelines.
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board will be maintained.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the The Board is authorised to manage the business of the Company in Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of and the appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following Association may be amended by special resolution of shareholders, recommendation from the Committee.
unless the Articles specify otherwise.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to the Board Committees to assist the Board During the year the Committee completed the successful search for in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent oversight a new Non-Executive Director, resulting in the appointment of Shirley Garrood.
Details of the process used in the recruitment of Mrs Garrood of internal control and risk management.
The three principal Board were detailed in the 2013 Annual Report.
Following this appointment, Committees Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination play an essential the Committee reviewed the composition of the Committees and role in supporting the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities.
The Chairman recommended the appointment of Chris Barling as Chairman of the of each Committee reports to the Board.
The minutes of each Board Remuneration Committee and also as Senior Independent Director and Committee meeting are circulated to the attendees.
the appointment of Shirley Garrood as Chairman of the Audit Committee and to join the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board Committees all have formal terms of reference that have been approved by the Board, and performance of the Committees is assessed The Committee has reviewed the succession plans for the senior annually by the Board.
Each Committees terms of reference sets out management team and considered individuals with the potential to take the specific matters for which delegated authority has been given by the on management positions in the future.
The Board is further considering Board.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and the terms the organisation structure and succession will form part of these of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee are discussions.
available on the Groups website www.
A summary of the terms of reference for each committee is included in the committee summaries below.
Other committees AUDIT COMMITTEE Details of the composition and work of the Audit Committee are These committees form part of the Corporate Governance framework, provided in the Audit Committee Report on pages 39 to 41. but are not formally appointed Non-Executive committees of the Board.
The two main Committees are the Executive Committee and the Risk Committee: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Details of the composition and work of the Remuneration Committee are EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 55.
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Committee subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Board only.
In particular, the Executive Committee is responsible to the Chief Executive for developing and monitoring every aspect of the The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments, Groups business on a continuing basis, for developing and implementing re-election and succession of directors and the Chairman.
It is responsible business strategy as agreed by the Board and ensuring that day-to-day for making recommendations to the Board concerning the composition operations are conducted in accordance with the relevant regulatory and skills of the Board including proposed appointees to the Board and and statutory requirements.
The Executive Committee meets at least the membership of the Committees.
The Committee is chaired by Michael quarterly but more frequently when required, and met seven times Evans and the Committees other members at 30 June 2014 were Chris during the current financial year.
The attendance by each director is set Barling, Dharmash Mistry, Shirley Garrood and Stephen Robertson.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 35 The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, RISK COMMITTEE and in his absence by either Tracey Taylor or Peter Hargreaves.
During the year the committee also comprised the following: The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and also Nigel Bence Chief Operating Officer comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, IT Director, Operations Nick Marson Vantage and Broking Operations Director Director, Marketing Director and a Non-Executive Director.
The Committee Ian Hunter Investment Marketing Director reports back to the Board and the Audit Committee on the management of David Davies IT Director the major risks facing the Group as assessed against the Groups Risk Appetite.
Alex Davies Director of Pensions until December 2013 We also have a Treasury Committee, which recommends and oversees Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee Gardhouse and Stuart Louden are changes to the treasury management policy, an Investment Committee, which invited to attend the Executive Committee.
Biographies of the above are monitors the investments held in the HL Multi-Manager funds, as well as an available on our website: www.
Interest Rate Committee, CASS Oversight Committee and an IT Steering Group.
Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee Board Board calls Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Risk Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Directors Ian Gorham 5 5 4 4 - - - 7 8 4 4 Peter Hargreaves 5 5 2 4 - - - 6 8 - Tracey Taylor 5 5 4 4 - - - 8 8 - Michael Evans 5 5 4 4 - 4 4 2 2 - - Jonathan Bloomer 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 4 4 2 2 - - Chris Barling 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 2 2 - - Dharmash Mistry 4 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 2 2 - - Stephen Robertson 5 5 4 4 4 4 - 2 2 - 4 4 Shirley Garrood 2 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 - - - Executive Committee Nigel Bence - - - - - 8 8 3 4 Alex Davies 3 - - - - - 3 4 - Nick Marson - - - - - 7 8 4 4 Ian Hunter - - - - - 8 8 3 4 David Davies - - - - - 6 8 4 4 Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice.
In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, five additional Board calls were held as updates between the formal Board meetings.
1 Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in October 2013.
2 Attendance represents number of meetings since appointment in October 2013.
3 Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in December 2013.
Relations with shareholders Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer ensured the Board was fully briefed on shareholders views such that any issues or concerns were fully understood and considered by the Board.
Analyst and broker briefings are We are committed to maintaining good communications with our regularly provided to the Board.
In addition, the Groups brokers sought shareholders.
We have a programme of communication with shareholders feedback from investors following the 2013 final and 2014 interim results, based on our financial reporting calendar including the interim and annual and this feedback was reported to the Board.
reports, Interim Management Statements, the Annual General Meeting AGM and the Investor Relations section of the corporate website at www.
All Directors made themselves available to meet shareholders at our AGM and they value the opportunity of welcoming individual shareholders and In addition to this, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet with other investors to communicate directly and address their questions.
institutional investors after results announcements and upon request on an ad hoc basis during the year.
They, together with the Company Secretary To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings separate and Head of Investor Relations, also provide a point of contact for investors resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject.
Resolutions have been who wish to raise questions, queries or concerns.
Chris Barling, our Senior passed on a show of hands, and proxy votes for, against and withheld Independent Non-Executive Director, is also available to meet key investors.
for each resolution are displayed at the meeting.
Following the AGM, the results of voting are published through a Regulatory Information Service Following dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, the Chairman, and on our website.
36 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Internal controls INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK KEY FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups systems Terms of Reference of internal control and risk management, the key features of which are The Board operates within clearly defined terms of reference, and it outlined in the following chart and detailed below.
reserves certain matters for its own consideration and decision.
It has established appropriate committees to oversee control activities.
These Through the monitoring processes set out below, the Board has committees also have clearly defined terms of reference.
The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and Committee processes are fundamental to the effectiveness of our during the year ended 30 June 2014. internal controls.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than Organisational structure and policies eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide The Board regularly reviews the Groups organisational structure to reasonable but not absolute assurance as to the effectiveness of the seek to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility exist, with safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss appropriate delegation of authority.
Roles and responsibilities are clearly or fraud.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not communicated to each member of staff within their Apportionment indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board Forms.
These forms are reviewed annually and updated if necessary.
is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
However, in acknowledgement that the business The Board regularly reviews the Groups policies which are in place to and the risks it faces are continually evolving and as part of a process manage the Groups exposure to risks, such as treasury, interest rate risk of continuous improvement, steps are being taken to further embed and counterparty risk.
Our public interest disclosure whistleblowing internal controls and risk management into business operations.
policy encourages employees to raise concerns about anything that they suspect is fraudulent, corrupt, dangerous or seriously wrong.
They can raise concerns on a confidential basis, enabling proportionate and independent investigation to be undertaken.
We thoroughly investigate any allegations of misconduct and irregularity and consider the implications for our control environment.
Terms of reference Organisational Internal structure and External audit policies audit Group Group risk compliance strategy Internal control framework Management Group finance information Regulatory supervision Our values Risk and monitoring and culture committee Remuneration policy Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to attempted fraud on the client first, Hargreaves Lansdown second and your department third.
This engenders service levels which many other companies a regular basis.
Strict processes and controls mean that we are able to can only aspire to and ensures that the requirements of our clients are identify attacks and deal with them appropriately on a timely basis.
We foremost in our employees decision making process.
are continually looking at ways of making our clients transactions with us more secure and have dedicated resource within the business whose Group Finance focus is on managing fraud risk.
We also employ external consultants to The Group Finance department manages our financial reporting test our defences and to minimise fraud risk.
processes to ensure the information which enables our Board to discharge its responsibilities is provided on a timely basis.
It ensures Group Risk Strategy cost controls are in place and that the business efficiently manages its The Group Risk Strategy requires senior managers to identify, resources.
It also produces a financial forecast based on the strategic evaluate and manage risks in their business units.
Risk registers and operational plans of the business which is continuously reviewed are kept at department level and regular meetings are held between and is used to plan and review regulatory capital requirements.
department managers and members of the Risk team to ensure that risk management remains high on the agenda of the business.
Target Group Compliance dates for resolution of issues are continually monitored.
A summary of Our Compliance function manages relationships with the Groups key significant risks is provided within the Business Review.
regulators alongside identifying major compliance and regulatory risks.
Our Money Laundering Reporting Officer MLRO is part of the Risk and Risk management processes within the Group accord with the Internal Financial Crime team and is responsible for ensuring we have suitable Control: Guidance to Directors formerly the Turnbull guidance, and anti-money laundering AML procedures and controls, and adequate are supported by reports from the Internal Audit function which include AML training for all staff.
The MLRO specifically considers the risk of loss focus on significant risks faced by the Group.
through financial crime and the controls in place to mitigate the risk of such loss.
Management information Detailed packs of key information are circulated monthly to our Internal Audit senior management team and Non-Executive Directors.
Our business Our Internal Audit function reports to the Audit Committee on the performance is monitored closely by the Board and senior management, effectiveness of key internal controls.
in particular monitoring of: External audit and regulatory supervision progress towards strategic objectives: The majority of the activities of the Group, including the systems of financial performance, within a framework including forecasting, business control, are subject to supervision by the Financial Conduct financial reporting, reviewing variances against plan and prior year Authority.
The Group is required on a regular basis to submit detailed and taking appropriate management action: and prudential and statistical returns covering all areas of its business and risk management processes.
meets regularly with its supervisors, conducting the relationship in an open and constructive manner.
In addition, the Audit Committee also Risk Committee receives reports from our external auditor.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board and the Audit Committee on the management of the major risks and emerging risks facing the Group as assessed against the Groups Risk Appetite.
Remuneration policy Risk management is embedded into the Apportionment Forms of every employee and awareness and mitigation of the risks faced by the Company are key factors used to evaluate individual performance.
This policy creates an environment which ensures excessive risk taking is not rewarded.
We believe that nothing will better encourage employees to look after the long-term future of the Group than being shareholders themselves, and so staff have the opportunity to invest in regular Save As You Earn share schemes and exceptional performance by key employees and senior managers will be rewarded with the grant of executive share awards.
Our values and culture Any system of internal control is dependent on the people operating it.
Our Culture defines what we expect from our people.
We pride ourselves on the culture which exists within the Company.
We have a one-firm mentality which helps everyone take responsibility for the whole of the business.
We have a saying success comes from putting 38 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
