Section 8: Audit Committee Report The following pages set out the Committees report on its activities The external auditors and the third party valuation expert are in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014.
I chair the Audit invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which the Annual Committee which has been in operation throughout the year and and Interim Reports are considered and at which they have the operates within clearly defined terms of reference.
It comprises all opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without the Directors except for Mr G Picken, Chairman of the Board and it representatives of the Investment Adviser being present.
The Audit met four times in the year to 31 March 2014.
Committee has direct access to the external auditors and to key senior staff of the Investment Manager and it reports its findings The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities and recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate include reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, the valuation of responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
the Groups investment portfolio, the system of internal controls, and the terms of appointment of the external auditors together with their Significant Issues Considered remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through which the external After discussions with both the Investment Adviser and the external auditors report to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice auditors, the Audit Committee determined that the key risks of yearly.
The objectivity of the external auditors is reviewed by the material misstatement of the Groups financial statements related to: Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors are appointed to perform non-audit services and 1.
Valuation of investments key forecast assumptions: the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
Valuation of investments valuation discount rates: and 3.
Adoption of Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, We have reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness IFRS 12 and IAS 27. of the Companys independent auditor and recommended to the Board that KPMG Channel Islands Limited be reappointed in respect Valuation of Investments of the coming financial year.
As outlined in Note 12a to the financial statements, the total carrying value of financial assets at fair value at 31 March 2014 was I or another member of the Audit Committee will continue to be 1,495.5m.
Market quotations are not available for these financial available at each Annual General Meeting to respond to any assets such that their valuation is undertaken using a discounted questions from shareholders regarding our activities.
This requires a series of material judgements to be made as further explained in Note 3 and Note 4 to John Hallam the financial statements.
Audit Committee Chairman 20 May 2014 The Audit Committee discussed the valuation process and methodology with the Investment Adviser in July 2013 and November 2013 as part of the review of the Interim Report and The main duties of the Audit Committee are: again in February 2014 and May 2014 as part of the review of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Investment Adviser carries out a giving full consideration and recommending to the Board for valuation semi-annually and provides a detailed valuation report to approval the contents of the half yearly and annual financial the Company.
The Audit Committee also receives a report and statements and reviewing the external auditors report thereon: opinion on the half year and year-end valuation from a third party reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence valuation expert.
and objectivity of the external auditors: reviewing the draft valuation of the Groups investments prepared In order to provide further assurance regarding the valuation, the by the Investment Adviser, receiving an independent review of the Company engaged a third party assurance firm to undertake a valuation from a third party expert and making a recommendation review of the control environment underpinning the Investment to the Board on the valuation of the Groups investments: Advisers valuation process.
The Audit Committee recommended to reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the the board the scope and terms of engagement of the third party audit, audit related and non-audit fees payable to the external assurance firm.
The report produced and reviewed in detail by the auditors and the terms of their engagement: Audit Committee in July 2013 showed that there was a robust control environment supporting the valuation.
reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the following financial year, including a review of appropriateness of The Audit Committee met with the external auditors at the time at proposed materiality levels: which the Audit Committee reviewed and agreed the external reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting auditors Group audit plan in February 2014 and also at the policies: and conclusion of the audit of the financial statements in May 2014 and ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal control in particular discussed the audit approach to the valuation.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 59 Section 8: Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee challenged the Investment Adviser on their Valuation of Investments material judgements and also compared this to feedback from the Key Forecast Assumptions third party valuation expert.
The Audit Committee were satisfied The Audit Committee considered in detail those assumptions that that the range of discount rates were appropriate for the valuation are subject to judgement that have a material impact on the carried out by the Investment Adviser.
The key assumptions are considered to be future inflation rates, deposit interest rates and tax rates.
These assumptions are The auditor explained the results of their audit and that on the basis set out and explained in Section 2.7 Valuation of the Groups of their audit work there were no adjustments proposed that were Portfolio and Note 4 to the financial statements.
material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Advisers report, in Adoption of the New Investment conjunction with a report and opinion on the valuation from a third Entities Accounting Standard party valuation expert.
The Investment Adviser confirmed to the The Directors have agreed to adopt the new Investment Entities Audit Committee that the valuation assumptions were consistent accounting standards Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 with those used for acquisitions and the third party valuation expert early as permitted following EU endorsement.
As explained in Note confirmed that the valuation assumptions were within a range of 2c to the financial statements on page 75, the Directors are of the acceptable outcomes.
opinion that the Company and certain of its subsidiaries meet the requirements of an Investment Entity.
The Investment Adviser provided sensitivities showing the impact of changing these assumptions and these have been reviewed by the Assessing whether the Company and certain subsidiaries met the Audit Committee and the auditor.
The auditor considered the criteria of Investment Entities in accordance with Investment Entities judgements on these assumptions using their own expertise and Amendments was seen as a key judgement as it has resulted in a experience and comparisons to observable market data.
On the significant change in the way the Company measures and recognises basis of their audit work there were no adjustments proposed that interests in subsidiaries that it previously consolidated or would were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
have had to consolidate on a line-by-line basis.
The Audit Committee concluded that the Investment Advisers The adoption of this standard requires the consolidated financial valuation process was robust, a consistent valuation methodology statements to include the investments at fair value rather than had been applied throughout the year and that the key forecast consolidating their results on a line-by-line basis.
The Directors and assumptions applied were appropriate.
the Investment Adviser agree that this results in more meaningful financial statements for users of the accounts and have concluded Valuation of Investments that early adoption is appropriate.
Discount rates The discount rates adopted to determine the valuation are selected The external auditors have considered the adoption of the standard and recommended by the Investment Adviser.
The discount rate is by the Company and the definition of an Investment Entity and applied to the expected future cash flows for each investments have accepted the application of the standard is appropriate.
financial forecasts derived adopting the assumptions explained above to arrive at a valuation discounted cashflow valuation.
The The Audit Committee debated both the appropriateness of adopting resulting valuation is sensitive to the discount rate selected.
The the new standard and the early adoption thereof with the Investment Adviser is experienced and active in the area of valuing Investment Adviser and auditor.
The Audit Committee concluded these investments and adopts discount rates reflecting their current that the new standards will improve stakeholders understanding of and extensive experience of the market.
The Investment Adviser sets the financial performance and position of the Group.
out the discount rate assumptions and the sensitivity of the valuation of the Investments to this discount rate in Section 2.7 Valuation of Appointment of the External Auditors the Groups Portfolio and Note 4 of the financial statements.
KPMG Channel Islands Limited KPMG has been the external auditor for the HICL group since the Company listed on the London In particular the Audit Committee considered in detail the Stock Exchange in March 2006.
The lead audit partner has changed reductions of 0.1% and 0.2% in the reference discount rate applied once, in 2010, to Mr Stormonth, in accordance with normal audit at 31 March 2014 compared with that applied respectively in the partner rotation arrangements.
The Investment Adviser explained this was principally as a consequence of The Audit Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate increased competition in the secondary market for social and Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council transportation infrastructure assets, which had been seen during FRC in September 2012 and the AIC Code of Corporate bidding and general market activity.
This was also corroborated by Governance issued in February 2013, in particular, the the third party valuation expert.
recommendation in each, to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
Consequently, the committee has considered its tendering arrangements and intends to tender the external audit function in 2015 following the conclusion of Mr Stormonths period in office or earlier if it has cause to do so.
60 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 The objectivity of the external auditors is reviewed by the Audit To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external external auditors, the Audit Committee considered: auditors may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the current year: effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external a report from the external auditors describing their auditors, with particular regard to any non-audit work that the arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of auditor may undertake.
In order to safeguard auditor independence interest: and and objectivity, the Audit Committee ensures that any other the extent of non-audit services provided by the external advisory and or consulting services provided by the external auditors and its associates.
auditors do not conflict with their statutory audit responsibilities.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Advisory and or consulting services generally only covers reviews Committee reviewed: of interim financial statements, tax compliance and capital raising work.
Any non-audit services conducted by the auditor outside of the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and these areas which are above 20,000 in aggregate in any year variations from it: require the consent of the Audit Committee before being initiated.
reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the The external auditor may not undertake any work for the Company course of the audit: and in respect of the following matters preparation of the financial statements, valuations used in financial statements, provision of feedback from the Investment Adviser evaluating the investment advice, taking management decisions or advocacy work performance of the audit team.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with KPMGs effectiveness and The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its independence as auditor having considered the degree of diligence effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external and professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
As such, the auditors, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
Total Audit Committee has not considered it necessary this year to fees paid amounted to 0.7m for the year ended 31 March 2014 of conduct a tender process for the appointment of its external which 0.3m related to audit and audit related services to the auditors.
Having carried out the review described above and having Group, 0.3m related to the audit of the Groups project subsidiaries satisfied itself that the external auditors remain independent and which are paid to the UK associate of KPMG Channel Islands effective, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Limited and other audit related services, and 0.1m was in respect KPMG be reappointed as auditor for the year ending 31 March 2015. of taxation advisory and non-audit services.
Notwithstanding such non-audit services the Audit Committee considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
