Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to Introduction the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out governance culture that meets the requirements of the UK Listing in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Authority as well as other relevant bodies such as the Guernsey Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Financial Services Commission and the Association of Investment position of the Company, being an externally managed investment Companies AIC of which the Company is a member.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it management and administrative functions are outsourced to third believes is appropriate for an investment company.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, contribute to the Board discussions and debates.
The Board employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not believes in providing as much transparency for investors and other reported further in respect of these provisions.
stakeholders as is reasonably possible within the boundaries of client and commercial confidentiality.
The remainder of this Corporate Governance Statement addresses each of the 21 principles of the AIC Code in turn under the three Guernsey Regulatory Environment main areas of The Board: Board Meetings and the Relationship with On 30 September 2011 the Guernsey Financial Services the Manager: and Shareholder Communications.
Commission the Commission issued the Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance.
The Code comprises Principles and The Board Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good corporate Principle 1.
The chairman should be independent.
practice against which shareholders, boards and the Commission The Chairman, Mr Picken, met the independence criteria upon can better assess the governance exercised over companies in appointment and has continued to meet this condition throughout his Guernseys finance sector.
As per the AICs recommendations the chairman has no relationships that may create a conflict of interest with shareholders.
The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale and complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing approaches Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with to meeting the Code.
Companies which report against the UK guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code of Corporate Director SID, Mr Hallam, who was appointed as SID on Governance are also deemed to meet this code.
In his role as the SID, Mr Hallam takes the lead in determined that the Company will continue as an Authorised the annual evaluation of the Chairman at which the Chairmans Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
performance and continuing independence is discussed.
The AIC Code of Corporate Governance Principle 2.
A majority of the board should be independent of As a member of the AIC the Company has been reporting against the the manager.
principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Following the appointment of two new directors from 1 May 2013, Governance the AIC Code and the accompanying AIC Corporate the Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors, all of Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
In which are independent of the Investment Adviser.
None of the February 2013 both the AIC Code and AIC Guide were updated to Directors sit on the Boards of other entities managed by the take into account the new UK Corporate Governance Code issued by Investment Adviser.
The independence of each of the Directors is the Financial Reporting Council.
considered during the annual self-evaluation of the Board.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to any Board discussion.
the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Principle 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election should not be principles and recommendations on matters that are of specific assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued relevance to the Company.
The Articles of Incorporation currently provide that at least one third The Board considers that reporting against the principles and of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the revised their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, to, but not exceeding, one third, shall retire from office.
will provide better information to shareholders.
At the most recent AGM of 23 July 2013 all of the Directors retired The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC and offered themselves for re-election.
All six Directors were Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance re-elected with at least 99% of the votes cast in every case Code 2012 and 2010 as required by the Listing Rules, except as set approving the re-election of each individual.
As in previous years, all six Directors intend to retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM in July.
Following the annual Director evaluation process in February, the Board recommends the re-election of each Director.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial disclosed in the annual report.
controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the As the Company was formed in 2006 no Director has yet served for Company that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
A Director who retires at an annual general The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of subject to automatic re-appointment.
The Board believes that long serving Directors should not The Board meets at least four times a year and between these automatically be prevented from forming part of an independent formal meetings there is regular contact with the Investment majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
If a Director Adviser, the Secretary and the Companys Broker.
The primary focus has served more than nine years, the Board will consider the issue of at Board meetings is a review of investment performance and independence carefully on an annual basis as part of the Board selfassociated matters such as marketing investor relations, risk evaluation and will disclose its conclusions in the Directors Report.
management, gearing, general administration and compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
There should be full disclosure of information about considers the Companys strategy with regard to market conditions the board.
The Investment Policy and the The biographies of the Directors, including length of service, are set Investment Strategy, which are set out in the Strategic Review, are out in Sections 3 and 5, together with a list of other public company also reviewed regularly with the Investment Adviser.
No Director has a shareholding in any company in which the Company also has an investment.
As well as regular Board meetings the following committees also met during the course of the year as set out in the table below : Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Management Engagement.
Terms of reference for each Committee have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 March 2014 are as follows: Management Audit Remuneration Nomination Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mrs S Evans Members Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr J Hallam Mr J Hallam Mr G Picken Mr I Russell Mr G Picken Mr C Russell Mr C Russell Mr I Russell Mr I Russell Mr I Russell Mrs Susie Farnon and Mr Ian Russell were appointed to the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Management Engagement Committee at the Board Meeting held on 15 May 2013.
The attendance record of Directors for the year to 31 March 2014 is set out below: Quarterly Management board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 4112 Meetings Attended: G Picken 4 N A 112 J Hallam 4 4112 S Evans 4 4112 S Farnon 4 4111 C Russell 4 4112 I Russell 4 4111 During the year a further 8 ad hoc Board Committee meetings were held to deal with matters substantially of an administrative nature and these were attended by those Directors available.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Directors may request any agenda items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
The respective reports of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee are set out in Sections 7 and 8 of this Annual Report.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 51 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued The Nomination Committee and the Management Engagement Principle 8.
Director remuneration should reflect their duties, Committee are discussed in Principle 9 and Principle 15 respectively.
responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The remuneration of the Directors and the Directors remuneration The formal terms of reference for each of the committees of the policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in Section 7 Board are available to view on the Companys website at of this Annual Report.
com investor-relations publications under the Corporate Documents section.
The independent directors should take the lead in the appointment of new directors and the process should be disclosed A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out in Section 4. in the annual report.
The Board has a Nomination Committee the terms of reference of which Principle 6.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, are available on the Companys website http: hicl.
com investorexperience, length of service and knowledge of the company.
relations publications under Corporate Documents.
Following the appointment of the two new directors on 1 May 2013, the Board believes that the balance of skills, gender, experience and It is composed of all six Board Directors and chaired by Mr G Picken, knowledge, coupled with the mixed length of service, provides for a who is also the Board Chairman.
All six members are independent.
sound base from which the interests of investors will be served to a The main terms of reference of the Committee are: high standard.
Moreover, the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
to review the structure, size and composition required of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to The Board has chosen not to adopt a definitive policy with any changes including skills, knowledge and experience in quantitative targets for board diversity.
However, gender, knowledge, accordance with Principle 6 of the AIC Code : skills, experience, residency and governance credentials are all to give full consideration to succession planning for directors considered by the Nominations Committee when recommending taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the appointments to the Board and in formulating succession plans.
Company: and to be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval Principle 7.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees they arise.
The most recent external evaluation of the Board in relation to its The Nomination Committee had two meetings in the year to skills and workings was conducted by Trust Associates in 31 March 2014 the first of which recommended the recruitment of November 2011.
It was agreed at the time that the composition of the two additional directors to the Board in order to enhance the the Board and its Committees reflected a suitable mix of skills and current composition of the Board and facilitate succession planning.
experience, and that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees were functioning effectively.
Directors should be offered relevant training and induction.
However, given the growth in size of the Groups investment The two new Directors appointed to the Board undertook a formal portfolio, the Board decided in 2012 that it would be in induction process including individual meetings with the shareholders best interests to recruit additional directors to Investment Adviser at which detailed discussions on the Company, strengthen the Board further by adding appropriate skills and its business model, strategy, policies and portfolio took place.
experience, and to facilitate succession planning.
Trust Associates was engaged to conduct a search for suitable candidates which All the Directors have undertaken anti-bribery and anti-money culminated in the appointment of Mrs Farnon and Mr I Russell, laundering training, and have had the opportunity to meet with whose summary biographic details are in Section 3. shareholders.
The Investment Adviser has also arranged for all Directors to visit at least one of the Companys investments during The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure and the year.
These included the Dutch High-Speed Rail project, the independence of each Director on an annual basis.
The annual Metropolitan Police Specialist Training Facility, the Health and evaluation for the year ended 31 March 2014 has been completed Safety Laboratories, Addiewell Prison and Highland Schools, this by the Chairman and took the form of one to one interviews with programme of visits is ongoing.
each Director holding office in the year.
For the evaluation of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director discussed the results of During these site visits with the Investment Advisers asset a questionnaire with the Chairman following consultation with the management team, Directors had the opportunity to tour the asset other Directors.
and meet various stakeholders including the client, the users, the management team and the various facilities management The Board believes that the composition of the Board and its subcontractors.
Some visits included attending the project company Committees reflects a suitable mix of skills and experience, and that board meeting to observe governance of the investment.
the Board, as a whole, and its Committees functioned effectively during the last 12 months.
Nevertheless, the Board believes a These visits allowed Directors to gain a deeper understanding of the regular external evaluation of the Board is important, especially actual operation of the investment concerned and the role of the with two new Directors, and therefore intends to engage an various parties including the Investment Advisers asset appropriate independent advisor in this respect during the course management team who are appointed directors to the investments of the current financial year to 31 March 2015. project company board.
The chairman and the board should be brought into Principle 13.
The primary focus at regular board meetings should be the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
a review of investment performance and associated matters such as As the Company was listed in March 2006, the Board do not believe gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group it is necessary to comment on this principle.
In addition to the statutory matters discussed at each quarterly Board Meetings and the Relationship Board meeting, the principal focus is on the reports provided by the with the Manager Investment Adviser, as well as those put forward by the Companys Broker and Financial PR Agent.
These are all standing agenda items.
Boards and managers should operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Papers are sent to Directors normally at least a week in advance of the The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility, Board meetings by the Company Secretary.
Board papers include: within clearly defined frameworks: A review of the infrastructure market detailing key developments: The day-to-day administration of the Company has been delegated to Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd in its capacity as Investment activity in the period and the pipeline of potential Company Secretary and Administrator.
new investment opportunities: The Investment Adviser has two roles, Adviser to the Company A review of portfolio performance in the period with material and Operator of the Groups limited partnership which owns the issues identified and discussed: Groups underlying investments.
A review of any Health and Safety matters in the period: An updated Company and Group risk register: The role of Adviser includes reporting on the performance of the Details of current CSR initiatives: investment portfolio, preparing the semi-annual valuations, the statutory accounts, the management accounts, business plans, A detailed financial review, including detailed management presenting results and information to shareholders, coordinating all accounts, valuation, and treasury matters: service providers to the Group and giving the Board general advice Compliance reports: and and feedback.
Reports from the Broker and from the Financial PR company.
The role of Operator includes managing the partnership and taking The Board regularly request further information on topics of interest direct responsibility, within parameters set by the Board, for the to allow informed decisions to be taken.
decisions relating to the day-to-day management of the Groups investment portfolio, the Groups debt facilities, swap arrangements, On a semi-annual basis the Board, through the Audit Committee, and the sourcing of new investments.
Members of the Investment also considers the interim and annual reports as well as the detailed Advisers asset management team are appointed as directors of the valuation of the investment portfolio prepared by the Investment Groups project companies and as part of their role in actively Adviser and the third party expert opinion on the proposed managing the portfolio, they attend board meetings and make valuation.
On at least an annual basis, the Board considers more appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to detailed analysis of the Groups Budget and Business Plan for the the Investment Advisers investment committee for consideration prospective year.
Boards should give sufficient attention to Representatives of the Investment Adviser and the Company overall strategy.
Secretary and Administrator attend all Board meetings and, when The Board considers a formal strategy report prepared by the requested by the respective Chairman, meetings of the Audit, Investment Adviser at a separate meeting at least once a year.
Remuneration, Nomination and Management Engagement Adherence to the Investment Strategy is discussed regularly, and committees.
The relationship between the parties is very good and where a change of strategy is thought appropriate, it is highly professional.
communicated to shareholders in advance of implementation.
As well as considering acquisitions, the Board also considers At the Board meeting on 25 April 2014, the Board determined it was disposals, portfolio performance, levels of gearing and likely appropriate that the Company should be designated as a selfachievable dividend growth.
managed Alternative Investment Fund in accordance with Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive, and the Principle 15.
The board should regularly review the performance of, relevant documentation is being submitted to ensure compliance by and contractual arrangements with, the manager.
22 July 2014 the end of the transitional arrangements period.
The Management Engagement Committee MEC of the Board is responsible for reviewing all major service providers to the Group.
In reaching this conclusion, the Board took legal advice and The terms of reference of this committee include a review of the considered how it has managed the Company and its investment relationships between the Company and its main service providers, portfolio.
The procedures and working practices that the Board has including their performance, compliance with their contracts, and adopted to date mean that there will be modest changes only to levels of fees paid.
The Committee typically meets once a year and its ensure compliance with the Directive.
recommendations are given to the Board for consideration and action.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 53 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued The MEC met once in the year to 31 March 2014, to review the amendments which it recommended be implemented, the performance of the key service providers.
No material weaknesses Investment Advisers control systems were in line with best practice.
were identified, some recommendations were conveyed to certain The Investment Adviser has adopted the amendments proposed.
providers, and the recommendation to the Board was that the current arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality The Board intends to consider on a periodic basis whether further services and advice to the Company and the Group.
third party assurance is appropriate.
The board should agree policies with the manager The Investment Adviser prepares management accounts and covering key operational issues.
updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which allow the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board has therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly defined needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and exposure limits.
Reports on these performance measures, coupled with cash The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control projections and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board through a matrix which identifies the key functions carried out by the at each quarterly meeting.
Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated Principle 17.
Boards should monitor the level of the share price with each activity and the controls employed to minimise and discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
A scoring based on 1 to 5 for Likelihood and 1 to Through detailed quarterly reports, the Board monitors the 5 for Impact is used and these are multiplied together to give a total Companys share price, share register and discount premium to score.
Mitigation is considered on a scale of 1 to 5 and this leads to a NAV per share.
Since April 2009 the share price has been trading at residual risk rating being derived.
The matrix is updated quarterly and a premium to NAV per share due to strong and sustained demand the Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all material from the investment community.
As a result of this demand the changes to the risk ratings and the action which has been, or is being Board has encouraged the Investment Adviser to source new taken.
By their nature, these procedures will provide a reasonable, investments which meet the Companys investment criteria.
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Although initially funded by borrowings under the Groups revolving debt facility, these are typically refinanced within a matter of At each Board meeting the Board also monitors the Groups months by way of new equity issuance.
The issuance of new shares investment performance in comparison to its stated objectives and it is the principal tool available to the Board to manage the premium.
reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting to ensure However, as the Board is wary of the drag on returns that results that the Investment Adviser and the Operator adhere to the agreed from holding uninvested cash, new equity is only raised following Investment Policy and approved investment guidelines.
The pipeline an investment or when an investment is imminent.
of new potential opportunities is considered and the prices paid for new or incremental investments during the quarter are also reviewed.
Should the Companys shares trade at a discount at some point in the future, the Boards authority to purchase Ordinary Shares for Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the cancellation was granted at the most recent Annual General Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance Meeting on 23 July 2013 and the Directors are proposing that it is matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
renewed when it expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2014.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and it has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Principle 18.
The board should monitor and evaluate other Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their own internal service providers.
review processes, and the work carried out by the Groups external As outlined in Principle 15 the Management Engagement auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of Committee MEC of the Board is responsible for reviewing all major internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is service providers to the Group at least once a year.
An internal audit function specific to the Group is therefore considered unnecessary.
The board should regularly monitor the shareholder The Board recognises that these control systems can only be profile of the company and put in place a system for canvassing designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to shareholder views and for communicating the boards views achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not to shareholders.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great relies on the operating controls established by both the Company importance on communication with its shareholders.
Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
Ahead of each quarterly Board meeting, the Board receives a The Board decided for good governance in 2013 to engage a thirddetailed breakdown of the current shareholder register from its party assurance provider to conduct a review of the Companys registrar by individual shareholding, type of shareholder and valuation process, as performed by the Investment Adviser, as this geographic location.
The Board commissions a specialist report involves a number of procedures and judgements.
The assurance which analyses the Shareholdings, collating them into holdings by providers report concluded that, while there were some minor investment group to determine the largest shareholders on the 54 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 register as well as by trading activity to identify the largest buyers All Company related information is only published following or sellers in the previous quarter.
consultation with, and approval by, the Board.
As such, the Directors have full knowledge and ability to draft and approve the content of This data is reviewed by the Investment Adviser and the Companys any communication.
Broker in the context of discussions which have taken place with shareholders in the prior quarter.
The conclusions are discussed The Board wishes to provide sufficient disclosure and reporting of with the Board and where appropriate, follow up actions are agreed.
the Companys performance and strategic intentions to inform The Companys Financial PR Company provides the Board with a shareholders.
The Board believe this is achieved by the detailed quarterly report on press and media coverage of the Company and information provided as follows: the sectors in which it invests.
All reports also reference the peer group for comparison purposes.
Annual reports: Interim statement and accounts: The Board makes every effort to engage with shareholders and Detailed presentations to accompany the results: other stakeholders in the Company.
The Company reports formally Two Interim Management Statements a year: to shareholders twice a year and normally holds an Annual General Meeting in Guernsey in July.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor the Announcements of all material acquisitions: voting of the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into Meetings and lunches with shareholders, by the Directors and consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
the Investment Adviser: and Case studies and investor events.
The Investment Adviser produces a regular factsheet which is available on the Companys website and senior members of the The Companys website www.
com has further information on Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable each investment and copies of all publications, together with all times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts to prospectuses and circulars since launch.
The disclosure of key assist them with their understanding of the sector and the Company sensitivities and risks has been developed by the Board working in particular.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board with the Investment Adviser and through dialogue with on a regular basis.
shareholders, the level and type of disclosure has been expanded and refined in order to assist in a full and fair analysis of the Two Interim Management Statements are published each year and Company and its investments.
any material new information is published via an RNS announcement.
The board should ensure that shareholders are provided In November 2013 the Board hosted an asset management seminar with sufficient information for them to understand the risk:reward at the Companys flagship asset, The Home Office.
This event balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
provided those present with the opportunity to meet Directors and The Board, in conjunction with the Investment Adviser, has the presentation given by the Investment Advisers asset endeavoured to educate shareholders and prospective investors on management team provided an insight into the role and importance the Companys business and the risks and rewards associated with of asset management in managing the Groups portfolio of investing in the Companys shares.
The Company has previously organised site visits, and a number of case studies are available from the This is an ongoing process and the Board seeks to provide as much Companys website www.
com disclosure and transparency as possible about the activities of the Company and the associated risks and rewards, albeit within the In addition, the Chairman held individual meetings with certain boundaries of commercial sensitivities and client confidentiality.
large shareholders, in part facilitated by the Companys Broker.
It is the Boards intention to continue to meet with shareholders The Board has hosted site visits and shareholder events to provide periodically so that open two-way communication on the a deeper understanding of the Company and its investment development of the Company is maintained.
Case studies and other materials, along with constitutional documents and committee terms of reference, are all Shareholders may contact any of the Directors via the Company available from the Companys website.
Secretary, whose contact details are on the Companys website www.
As a regular issuer of further share capital, the Company has published a number of prospectuses with detailed information on Principle 20.
The board should normally take responsibility for, and the investment portfolio and the potential risks.
The most recent have a direct involvement in, the content of communications prospectus was published on 26 February 2013. regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
In line with its obligations under the Listing Rules, the Company publishes a Regulatory News Release RNS whenever there is a material development.
All Directors review and discuss the draft before publication and a Director approves the final RNS for release by the Secretary.
