Letter from the Group Corporate Governance 1 Page App Chairman Dear Shareholder Corporate Governance Report 263 This year, 2015, marks the 150th anniversary of our foundation Letter from the Group Chairman 263 in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
In these days of companies Directors 264 ascending to the top ranks of valuation within a decade or so of Secretary 268 being formed and often descending as rapidly, we should reflect positively on the enormous skill and foresight of those who built Group Managing Directors 268 this firm sustainably from modest beginnings to its position as Board of Directors 270 one of the leading international banking groups in the world.
Directors 270 Given the history of the world over this period and the episodic intensity of financial market crises, this could not have been Corporate governance codes 275 achieved without strong governance and a prudent character.
It Board committees 276 is among the Boards primary responsibilities to ensure that the Group Management Board 276 firms governance and character are such as to underpin its continuing success.
Describing what good governance and a Group Audit Committee 277 prudent character look like is relatively simple: understanding Group Risk Committee 280 how to embed these and to measure success in so doing is the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 282 greater challenge and one which lies firmly within the Boards Group Remuneration Committee 284 accountability.
Nomination Committee 284 At the heart of good governance lie three responsibilities reserved to the Board.
Firstly, selection of the appropriate Conduct & Values Committee 286 business model and countries within which to pursue all or Chairmans Committee 288 elements of that model: secondly, determining the appropriate Philanthropic and Community Investment risk appetite of the firm across the variety of risks to which each Oversight Committee 288 business line is exposed: and finally, and most importantly, ensuring that the composition of the management team is best Internal control 288 placed to deliver the right outcome for all stakeholders, is Going concern 290 aligned in its incentives with the interests of shareholders and is committed to building long-term sustainable success, including Employees 291 in planning for its own succession.
Reward 291 Over the last four years, as the industry emerged from the Employee relations 291 global financial crisis and fresh regulatory requirements were Diversity and inclusion 291 determined, the Board has engaged actively with management Employee development 291 on all these areas.
Through this governance process, the Board Employment of disabled persons 291 has been able to endorse the progressive redefinition and clarity brought to HSBCs business model, its geographic Health and safety 291 representation and its risk appetite proposed by Stuart Gulliver Remuneration policy 292 and his management team.
At the same time, the Board has Employee share plans 292 been able to assess the composition and quality of the most senior management team: the Board continued to be impressed Other disclosures 293 by their dedication and commitment as well as their success in Share capital 294 meeting the objectives set for them by the Board.
Directors interests 297 The Board also has a critical role in overseeing the performance Dividends and shareholders 298 of management, including oversight of the transformation agenda which is underway to simplify and control more 2014 Annual General Meeting 293 effectively the management of the Group.
This agenda reflects 1 Appendix to Report of the Directors.
HSBCs three strategic priorities: to implement Global Standards, grow the business and simplify and streamline processes.
At each of its meetings and through its committees, Corporate Governance the Board reviews progress made on implementation of this agenda, challenging management over the speed of delivery Report against agreed milestones and seeking insight into options considered but rejected.
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 263 to 333 and information incorporated by Finally, governance is also about ensuring that the lessons of unexpected outcomes, of mistakes and of control failings are reference constitutes the Corporate Governance Report both acknowledged and responded to in a timely and effective of HSBC Holdings.
The reports of Board Committees are manner.
More importantly, it imposes a responsibility to ensure contained within the Corporate Governance Report.
actions are taken to ensure that repetition is remote and that pre-emptive controls are established to warn, so far as is possible, of emerging areas of concern.
During 2014, regrettably, there were further instances of legal and regulatory proceedings that reinforced the need for greater governance oversight over conduct and financial crime risk.
Indeed 2014 saw a sustained focus on conduct and behaviour HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 263 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
