Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Internal control Chairmans Committee Internal control Role and membership Procedures The Chairmans Committee has the power to act on The Directors are responsible for maintaining and behalf of the Board between scheduled Board meetings reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and to facilitate ad hoc unforeseen business requiring urgent internal control systems and for determining the nature Board approval.
The Committee meets with such and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take frequency and at such times as it may determine, the in achieving its strategic objectives.
To meet this quorum for meetings is dependent upon the nature of requirement and to discharge its obligations under the business to be transacted, as set out in its terms of the FCA Handbook and PRA Handbook, procedures reference.
have been designed for safeguarding assets against Philanthropic and Community Investment unauthorised use or disposal: for maintaining proper accounting records: and for ensuring the reliability and Oversight Committee usefulness of financial information used within the Role and membership business or for publication.
These procedures can only The Philanthropic and Community Investment Oversight provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against Committee, established by resolution of the Board in material mis-statement, errors, losses or fraud.
December 2014, will focus on the Groups philanthropic These procedures are designed to provide effective activity, being monetary donations made to charitable internal control within HSBC and accord with the organisations and the contribution of staff time toward Financial Reporting Councils guidance for directors voluntary activities.
issued in its revised form in 2005.
HSBCs procedures The Committee has non-executive responsibility for have been in place throughout the year and up to the oversight of HSBCs philanthropic and community 23 February 2015, the date of approval of the Annual investment activities in support of the Groups corporate Report and Accounts 2014.
This guidance was amended sustainability objectives.
following consultations undertaken by the Financial Reporting Council in November 2013 and April 2014, The Committee will meet for the first time in 2015 and resulting in revised guidance on risk management, will meet at least twice each year.
internal control and related financial and business reporting.
The revised guidance applies to companies Members 1 with financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
Laura Cha Chairman 1 Lord Evans of Weardale In the case of companies acquired during the year, the 2,4 Sir Malcolm Grant risk management and internal controls in place are being 3,4 Ruth Kelly reviewed against HSBCs benchmarks and integrated 3,4 Stephen Moss into HSBCs processes.
In 2014 the GAC and GRC endorsed the adoption of 3 Employee member.
the COSO 2013 framework for the monitoring of risk 4 Appointed on 19 February 2015. management and internal control systems to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code.
Full implementation of the COSO 2013 framework will be completed in 2015.
HSBC continued to evaluate its internal control over financial reporting under the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors and the original 1992 Framework for the year ended 31 December 2014.
HSBCs key risk management and internal control procedures include the following: Group Standards.
Functional, operating, financial reporting and certain management reporting standards are established by global function management committees, for application throughout HSBC.
These are supplemented by operating standards set by functional and local management as required for the type of business and geographical location of each subsidiary.
Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board.
Authority is delegated within limits set by HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 288 the Board to each relevant Group Managing Director internet crime and fraud: to manage the day to day affairs of the business or information security risk: function for which he or she is accountable.
data management: and Delegation of authority from the Board requires those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate model risk.
apportionment of significant responsibilities and Strategic plans.
Periodic strategic plans are prepared to oversee the establishment and maintenance for global businesses, global functions and certain of systems of control that are appropriate to their geographical regions within the framework of the business or function.
Appointments to the most Groups strategy.
Annual Operating Plans, informed by senior positions within HSBC requires the approval detailed analysis of risk appetite describing the types of the Board.
and quantum of risk that we are prepared to take in Risk identification and monitoring.
Systems and executing our strategy, are prepared and adopted by procedures are in place to identify, control and report all major HSBC operating companies and set out the on the major risks facing HSBC see page 21 including key business initiatives and the likely financial effects credit, market, liquidity and funding, capital, financial of those initiatives.
management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee sustainability, operational including accounting, reviews material public disclosures made by HSBC tax, legal, regulatory compliance, financial crime Holdings for any material errors, misstatements compliance, fiduciary, security and fraud, systems or omissions.
The membership of the Disclosure operations, project and people risk and insurance Committee, which is chaired by the Group Company risk.
Exposure to these risks is monitored by risk Secretary, includes the heads of Global Finance, management committees, asset, liability and capital Legal, Risk including Financial Crime Compliance management committees and executive committees and Regulatory Compliance, Communications, in subsidiaries and, for the Group, in Risk Investor Relations, and Internal Audit functions Management Meetings RMM of the GMB which and representatives from the principal regions and are chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The integrity of disclosures is meets regularly to discuss enterprise-wide risk underpinned by structures and processes within the management issues.
Asset, liability and capital Global Finance and Global Risk functions that support management issues are monitored by the Group expert and rigorous analytical review of financial ALCO, which also reports to the RMM.
HSBCs reporting complemented by certified reviews by operational risk profile and the effective heads of global businesses, global functions and implementation of the Groups operational risk certain legal entities.
management framework is monitored by the Global Operational Risk Committee GORC, which reports Financial reporting.
The Group financial reporting to the RMM.
Model risks are monitored by the Model process for preparing the consolidated Annual Report Oversight Committee which also reports to the RMM.
and Accounts 2014 is controlled using documented The minutes of the GMB meetings and the RMM are accounting policies and reporting formats, supported provided to members of the GAC, the GRC and the by a chart of accounts with detailed instructions and Board.
guidance on reporting requirements, issued by Group Finance to all reporting entities within the Group in Changes in market conditions practices.
Processes advance of each reporting period end.
The submission are in place to identify new risks arising from of financial information from each reporting entity changes in market conditions practices or customer to Group Finance is subject to certification by the behaviours, which could expose HSBC to heightened responsible financial officer, and analytical review risk of loss or reputational damage.
During 2014, procedures at reporting entity and Group levels.
attention was focused on: Responsibility for risk management.
Management of economic outlook and government intervention: global businesses and global functions are primarily increased geopolitical risk: accountable for measuring, monitoring, mitigating and managing their risks and controls.
Processes are regulatory developments affecting our business in place to ensure weaknesses are escalated to senior model and Group profitability: management and addressed, supported by our three regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions lines of defence model.
commitments and consent orders and requirements IT operations.
Centralised functional control relating to conduct of business and financial crime is exercised over all IT developments and operations.
negatively affecting our results and brand: Common systems are employed for similar business dispute risk: processes wherever practicable.
heightened execution risk: Functional management.
Global functional people risk: management is responsible for setting policies, procedures and standards for the following risks: third party risk management: credit, market, liquidity and funding, capital, financial HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 289 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
