Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Richard Burrows Christine Morin-Postel Nicandro Durante Ben Stevens Chairman 69 Senior Independent Director 68 Chief Executive 58 Finance Director 55 Nationality: Irish Nationality: French Nationality: Brazilian Italian Nationality: British Position: Chairman since November Position: Senior Independent Director Position: Chief Executive since 2011.
2009: Non-Executive Director since since April 2013: Non-Executive Director Key appointments: Non-Executive Key appointments: No external September 2009: Chairman of since 2007: member of the Audit, Director and member of the appointments.
Nominations and Remuneration Nominations and Remuneration Skills and experience: Senior Group Committees.
Key appointments: NED and member Committees of Reckitt Benckiser finance and general management of the Remuneration and Nominations Key appointments: NED and member Group plc.
roles: Head of Merger Integration Committees of Rentokil Initial plc: a of the Nominations and Remuneration Skills and experience: COO from following the merger with Rothmans: Supervisory Board member, member Committee of Groupe Bruxelles 2008: Regional Director for Africa Chairman and Managing Director of of the Audit Committee and Chairman Lambert S. A. andMiddle East and member of the the Pakistan Tobacco Company and of the Remuneration Committee at Skills and experience: Chief Executive Management Board from 2006: senior British American Tobacco Russia: Carlsberg A S. of Socit Gnrale fide Belgique, general management roles in Brazil appointed to the Management Board Skills and experience: Chief Executive Executive Vice-President and member including President of Souza Cruz and in 2001 as Development Director of Irish Distillers: Co-Chief Executive of of the Executive Committee of Suez in the UK and Hong Kong: has wide becoming Director, Europe in 2004.
Pernod Ricard: Governor of the Bank and Chairman and CEO of Crdisuez experience in senior international Holds a BA Hons in Economics from ofIreland: Fellow of the Institute of S. A. : studied political sciences and finance and management roles within Manchester University and an MBA Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
graduated from the Institut fide the Group.
Holds a degree in finance, from Manchester Business School.
Sue Farr Ann Godbehere Savio Kwan Dr Pedro Malan Non-Executive Director 58 Non-Executive Director 59 Non-Executive Director 66 Non-Executive Director 72 Nationality: British Nationality: Canadian British Nationality: British Nationality: Brazilian Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director sinceFebruary 2015: member of the since2011: member of the Audit, sinceJanuary 2014: member of the sinceFebruary 2015: member of Corporate Social Responsibility and Nominations and Remuneration Corporate Social Responsibility and theCorporate Social Responsibility Nominations Committees.
Key appointments: Director, Strategic Key appointments: NED, member Key appointments: Co-Founder Key appointments: Chairman of the and Business Development, Chime plc ofthe Nominations Committee and andCEO of A&K Consulting Co Ltd, International Advisory Board of Ita since 2003: NED of Dairy Crest Group, Chairof the Audit Committee of Rio advising entrepreneurs and their Unibanco: Member of the Advisory member of the Remuneration and Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited: NED, start-up businesses in China: Visiting Board of EDP Energias do Brasil SA: Corporate Social Responsibility member of the Audit Committee and Professor at Henley Business School.
NED of Mills Estruturas e Servicos fide Committees: NED of Millennium & Chair of the HR and Compensation Engenharia SA: Trustee of the Skills and experience: Extensive Copthorne Hotels, member of the Committee of UBSGroup AG and UBS Thomson Reuters Principles and business leadership experience in Remuneration and Nominations AG: NED, memberof the Nominations member, Temasek International Panel.
Greater China and Asia, gained Committees: NED of Accsys and Risk Committees and Chair of the atGeneral Electric, BTR plc and Skills and experience: Former Technologies and member of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc.
AlibabaGroup, Chinas largest internet Chairman of Unibanco bank.
Nominations, Remuneration and Skills and experience: Chief Financial business, where he was both Previously NED, Companhia Souza Audit Committees.
Officer of Swiss Re Group: Chief ChiefOperating Officer and, later, a Cruz SA 2010-2015 and Minister of Skills and experience: Former Financial Officer of Northern Rock Non-Executive Director.
Holds an MSc Finance for Brazil from 1995 to 2002, Chairwoman of both the Marketing during the initial phase of its public from Loughborough University and President of the Central Bank of Brazil Society and the Marketing Group of ownership: Fellow of the Certified anMBA from London Business School.
from 1993 to 1994, Chief External Great Britain: considerable expertise General Accountants of Canada and Debt Negotiator for Brazil from inmarketing, branding and consumer Fellow of the Chartered Professional mid-1991 to 1993. issues developed during her career Accountants.
including roles with the BBC and Vauxhall Motors.
48 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Attendance at Board meetings in 2014 Director Attended Name since Eligible to attend Richard Burrows 2009 9 9 Christine Morin-Postel 2007 9 9 Nicandro Durante 2008 9 9 Ben Stevens 2008 9 9 Dr Gerard Murphy Dimitri Panayotopoulos 1 Sue Farr 2015 N A Non-Executive Director 59 Non-Executive Director 63 Ann Godbehere 2011 9 9 2 Savio Kwan 2014 8 9 Nationality: Irish Nationality: Greek Tanzanian 1 Dr Pedro Malan 2015 N A Position: Non-Executive Director since Position: Non-Executive Director Dr Gerry Murphy 2009 9 9 2009: Chairman of the Remuneration sinceFebruary 2015: member 1 Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 N A Committee: member of the oftheNominations and 3 Kieran Poynter 2010 8 9 Nominations Committee.
Karen fide Segundo 2007 9 9 Key appointments: Member and Key appointments: Senior Advisor, Dr Richard Tubb 2013 9 9 Chairman of the Executive Committee Boston Consulting Group since 4 John Daly 2010 2014 1 1 ofThe Blackstone Group International April2014: Board member, Logitech.
5 Anthony Ruys 2006 2014 2 3 Partners LLP: NED of Merlin Skills and experience: Former Vice Notes: Entertainments plc: Board member Chairman and Advisor to the Chairman 1.
Sue Farr, Pedro Malan and Dimitri Panayotopoulos were appointed to the Board on 2 February ofJack Wolfskin and Intertrust Group.
and CEO of Procter & Gamble.
2015 so did not attend any meetings during 2014.
Skills and experience: Chief Executive Significant international sales 2.
Savio Kwan missed one ad hoc Board meeting, arranged at short notice, due to aprior Officer of Kingfisher plc, Carlton andbrand building expertise in engagement.
Communications plc, Exel plc, Switzerland, Germany, Egypt and 3.
Kieran Poynter missed one ad hoc Board meeting, arranged at short notice, due to aprior Greencore Group plc: senior operating China.
Led on significant breakthrough engagement.
roles at Grand Metropolitan plc innovations and continued to focus 4.
John Daly retired as an Executive Director on 6 April 2014. nowDiageo plc.
Holds a BSc and PhD onthis, speed to market and scale 5.
Anthony Ruys missed one Board meeting as it coincided with a previously arranged Board in food technology from University across all of Procter & Gambles meeting of the Supervisory Board of NV Luchthaven Schiphol, of which he was Chairman atthe College Cork and a MBS in Marketing businesses while Vice Chairman of all time.
Anthony retired as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the AGM on 30 April 2014. from University College Dublin.
The Board held nine meetings in 2014.
Six of these were scheduled.
T wo meetings were held Procter & Gamble in January 2014. off-site, one over two days and devoted to strategy and the second was held in Hong Kong to review the Groups Asia-Pacific regional businesses.
Six Board meetings are scheduled for 2015.
The Board of Directors is shown as at the date of this Annual Report.
Kieran Poynter Karen fide Segundo Dr Richard Tubb Non-Executive Director 64 Non-Executive Director 68 Non-Executive Director 55 Nationality: British Nationality: Dutch Nationality: US Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director since2010: Chairman of the Audit since2007: Chair of the Corporate sinceJanuary 2013: member of the Committee: member of the Social Responsibility Committee: Corporate Social Responsibility and Nominations and Remuneration member of the Nominations Nominations Committees.
Key appointments: White House Key appointments: NED and Key appointments: Supervisory Physician Emeritus: member of the memberof the Audit and Compliance BoardMember and member of the Board of Reference for Project Rescue: and Safety Committees of International Finance & Investment and Nomination Senior Managing Director, Shoreland, Consolidated Airlines Group S. A. : Committees at E. ONSE: and member Inc: and advisory position at Lonsdale.
Non-Executive Chairman and of the Board and member of the Skills and experience: White House Chairofthe Nominations, Audit AuditCommittee of Pyry Oyj.
Physician from 1995 to 2009, andCompliance and Risk and Skills and experience: Former NED includingPhysician to the President Remuneration Committees of F&C ofLonmin Plc until 29 January 2015. ofthe United States from 2002 until Asset Management plc: and NonSenior executive roles before retiring retirement in 2009: Clinical Assistant Executive Chairman of Nomura asCEO Shell International Renewables Professor at theUniformed Services International PLC.
and President Shell Hydrogen in 2005.
University retired : Brigadier General Skills and experience: Chartered Holds a Masters degree in Law from retired, USAir Force and various Accountant: Chairman and Senior Leiden University, an MBA from medical positions in the USAir Force.
Partner of  Michigan State University and is Awardedhis Doctor of Medicine in until2008: served on the Presidents aCouncil Member of the Anglo 1985: Specialty Certification 1988.
Committee of the Confederation of Netherlands Society.
British Industry and as member of an advisory committee for the Chancellor ofthe Exchequer.
49 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
