Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Management Board Jerome Abelman Jack Bowles Alan Davy Group Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Director 51 Regional Director, Asia-Pacific 51 Director, Operations 51 Nationality: US Nationality: French Nationality: British Jerry joined the Management Board as Jack became Regional Director Alan was appointed to the Group Corporate & Regulatory Affairs forAsia-Pacific in January 2013.
Management Board as Group Director in January 2015.
He has been JoiningtheGroup in 2004, he was Operations Director in March2013.
with the British American Tobacco Chairman of British American Tobacco Hejoined the Group in1988 Group for 12 years and has held a France in 2005 before taking up the andhasheld various roles number of roles in the Legal function.
role of Managing Director of British inmanufacturing, supply chain Jerry was most recently Regional American Tobacco Malaysia in 2007. andgeneral management.
General Counsel, Asia-Pacific from He joined the Management Board as Alanpreviously held theposition 2010 to 2014, before becoming Regional Director for Western Europe ofGroupHead of Supply Chain.
Assistant General Counsel Corporate in October 2009 before becoming & Commercial.
With effect from Regional Director for the Americas 1May2015, Jerry will replace Neil inOctober 2011.
Withington and will be appointed to the combined role of Group General Counsel and Legal and Corporate Affairs Director.
Giovanni Giordano Andrew Gray Tadeu Marroco Director, Group Human Resources 49 Director, Marketing 50 Director, Business Development 48 Nationality: Italian US Nationality: Brazilian British Nationality: Brazilian Giovanni joined the Management Andrew was appointed Marketing Tadeu joined the Management Board Board of British American Tobacco Director in September 2014.
Joining as Business Development Director in inJune 2011.
He is an international SouzaCruz as an intern in 1986, he September 2014.
In addition to his human resources executive with wide went onto hold a number of senior roleleading Strategy and M&A, experience from senior roles at Procter management positions in South Tadeuisresponsible for IT, including & Gamble and Ferrero, where he was America and the Caribbean including the roll-out of the Groups new Chief Corporate Officer.
President of Souza Cruz and also in operating model and global IT Malaysia.
He joined the Management solution.
Tadeu joined British American Board as Regional Director for Africa Tobacco in Brazil 22 years ago.
He has and the Middle East in January 2008 held various senior finance positions, before being appointed Regional including Regional Finance Controller, Director for Eastern Europe, Middle East EEMEA and Group Finance Controller.
and Africa EEMEA in January 2011.
50 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Dr David OReilly Ricardo Oberlander Naresh Sethi Group Scientific Director 48 Regional Director, Americas 51 Regional Director, Western Europe 48 Nationality: British Nationality: Brazilian Nationality: Australian Indian David was appointed Group Scientific Ricardo joined the Management Board Naresh was appointed Regional Director in January 2012.
He is as Regional Director for the Americas Director for Western Europe in currently Head of Group Research & in January 2013.
He has over two decades Development GR&D, has been with in May 1989 and has held various roles of experience in the tobacco industry, British American Tobacco for over including Marketing Director ofour holding various marketing roles in 20years and has held various positions Malaysian business, Regional India, Indonesia, West Africa and in GR&D.
He has led the Groups R&D Marketing Manager for the Americas, Australasia before moving to Japan.
efforts to develop reduced toxicant General Manager in France and Global Hewas Marketing Director in Japan products and has alsobeen Head of Consumer Director.
Ricardo joined and then the Groups General International Public Health & Scientific theBoard of the Groups associate Manager.
He became Group Head Affairs, responsible for engagement company, Reynolds American Inc. ofStrategy and Planning with the scientific, medical and public inDecember 2014. andwasappointed Director, Group health communities.
Johan Vandermeulen Kingsley Wheaton Neil Withington Regional Director, Eastern Europe, Managing Director, Director, Legal and General Counsel 58 MiddleEast and Africa 47 Next-Generation Products 42 Nationality: Belgian Nationality: British Nationality: British Johan joined the Management Board Kingsley was appointed Managing Neil was appointed to the as Regional Director for Eastern Director, Next-Generation Products Management Board as Legal Director Europe, Middle East and Africa in inJanuary 2015.
He joined the Group and General Counsel of British September 2014.
He hasbeen with in 1996 and has held a number of American Tobacco in 2000, having British American Tobacco for more rolesin Marketing.
He was Marketing previously been the Groups Deputy than 20 years and was previously Director in Nigeria and Russia, before General Counsel.
He joined the Group General Manager in Russia, General becoming General Manager in Russia.
in 1993 after a career at the Bar and in Manager in Turkey andGlobal Brand Hewas then the Global Brand Director the chemical and pharmaceutical Director for Kent.
responsible for Kent and Vogue before industries with ICI.
He was a Director taking his place on the Management ofReynolds American Inc. from July Board in January 2012 as Deputy 2004 to December 2014.
Neil will Corporate and Regulatory Affairs retirefrom the Management Board Director.
In June 2012 he was andleave theGroup on 30 April 2015. appointed Director, Corporate and Regulatory Affairs.
Kingsley is also amember of the Next-Generation Products Board.
51 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
