Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Board effectiveness Balance of Non-Executive Directors Balance and diversity Information and and Executive Directors A balanced Board  Our NonExecutive Directors come from Board induction broad industry and professional backgrounds, On joining the Board, all Directors receive with varied experience and expertise a full induction.
NonExecutive Directors aligned to the needs of our business.
also receive a full programme of briefings Women constitute over 30% of our Board.
on all areas of the Companys business from Short biographies of the Directors, including the Executive Directors, members of the details of relevant skills and experience, Management Board, the Company Secretary and nationalities, are set out in the Board and other senior executives.
The expected of Directors pages in this section pages 48 time commitment from NonExecutive and 49.
Directors for their induction is formalised in our standard letter of appointment and Promoting diversity visits to an overseas factory location and the The Board appreciates the benefit of diversity Chairman 1 Groups R&D facilities in Southampton are in all its forms, within its own membership Executive Directors 2 required elements.
and at all levels of the Group.
The Board Independent Non-Executive Directors 10 promotes diversity and is encouraging Following his appointment in 2014, Savio initiatives to improve gender diversity in Kwan received a comprehensive induction Length of tenure of senior management roles.
You can read our including a visit to the Groups R&D facilities Non-Executive Directors diversity policy, including the proportion of in the UK and participation in a market women in our total workforce and in senior visit to Mexico at the end of March 2014. management, in the winning organisation Induction programmes will also be put in section of our Strategic Report on pages 24 place for Sue Farr, Pedro Malan and Dimitri and 25.
Panayotopoulos, who were appointed to the Board in February 2015.
These will include Independence and briefings covering the Groups strategy, conflictsofinterest organisational structure, business functions including nextgeneration products, Independence statutory reporting cycle, financing principles, The Board considers all NonExecutive IT strategy and legal and regulatory Directors to be independent, as they have issues.
They will also attend sessions on not previously been employed in Group corporate governance, internal control and management roles and are free from any risk management.
03 years 5 business or other relationships that could 36 years 3 interfere materially with, or appear to affect, Training and development 69 years 2 their judgement.
NonExecutive Directors are encouraged to attend meetings of the Groups regional Audit Conflicts of interest Gender split of Directors and CSR committees, so that they have a The Board has formal procedures for good sense of the Groups regional operations managing conflicts of interest in accordance as well as the Groups Corporate Audit with the Companies Act 2006 and may Committee to gain a better understanding authorise situational conflicts under of the Groups central functions such as IT, the Companys Articles of Association.
Finance and Corporate and Regulatory Affairs.
Directors are required to give advance The NonExecutive Directors are also each notice of any conflict issues to the Company invited to attend a scheduled market visit Secretary, and these are considered either alongside a Regional Director, so that they at the next Board meeting or, if the timing gain exposure to the Groups business on requires it, at a meeting of the Boards theground.
In 2014, NonExecutive Directors Conflicts Committee.
In addition, Each year, the Board considers afresh all aBoardmeeting was held in Hong Kong.
Male 9 Directors are excluded from the quorum and Female 4 vote in respect of any matters in which they have an interest.
No material conflicts were Note: reported by Directors in 2014.
The above graphics reflect the composition of the Board as at the date ofthis report.
54 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Board and its Committees receive In 2014, as part of the annual programme, Board evaluation regular briefings on legal and regulatory 495 meetings were held with over 310 of Evaluation process developments.
The Board was also briefed the Companys institutional shareholders In 2014, the Board conducted an internal on changes to the UK Corporate Governance in 20 countries, spanning five continents.
review of its effectiveness and that of its Code which will impact the reporting cycle In terms of percentage shareholding, the Committees, the Executive and NonExecutive for 2015 and the transitional timetable and Company engaged with the owners of the Directors, and the Chairman.
This followed steps required in identifying and managing majority of its shares.
The Chairman had an external review that had been undertaken a change in external auditors introduced by 11personal meetings with major shareholders in 2013.
The evaluation was conducted EU regulation.
Regular investor presentations through questionnaires and indepth were also given, and these together with The Chairman meets each NonExecutive interviews with each Board member by the results presentations are all published Director individually, in the latter part of each theCompany Secretary.
All results presentations year, to discuss their individual training and areavailable to shareholders by webcast.
A report was prepared for the Board on the development plans.
results of this exercise, and the principal In addition, there is a micro site on Committees also considered reports on their For the Boards access to information and www.
com for debt investors, with advice see Information and advice in the Other own effectiveness, drawn from questionnaires comprehensive bondholder information Corporate Disclosures section on page 110 relating specifically to those Committees oncredit ratings, debt facilities, as well as from comments made in the outstandingbonds and maturity profiles.
Commitment to dialogue The AGM is an opportunity for further While the Board and each of its Committees shareholder engagement and for the The Board is committed to highquality are considered to be fully effective, fresh Chairman to explain the Companys progress dialogue with shareholders.
The Executive action points were identified.
A summary of and, along with other members of the Board, Directors lead in this respect, facilitated by the findings is set out in the accompanying to answer any questions.
All Directors attend, the Head of Investor Relations.
Our progress against 2014 action points unless illness or pressing commitments also contacts major shareholders periodically, is also included in the summary.
All Directors attended the and in advance of the AGM each year, so he AGM in 2014, with the exception of Karen Constructive feedback can hear their views and ensure that they fide Segundo who was attending the AGM are communicated to the Board.
The Senior In addition, the Chairman received reports of another company of which she is a Independent Director and other Non from the Company Secretary on the NonExecutive Director.
Details of our 2015 Executive Directors are available to meet performance of each of the Executive and AGM are set out in the Other Corporate with major shareholders on request.
A report on the Disclosures section.
Richard Tubb met with an institutional Chairmans own performance was prepared investor following one such request.
In early Twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations for the Senior Independent Director.
2015, both the Remuneration Committee reports to the Board on investor relations Individual feedback was given by the Chairman and the Chairman met a number of activities, identifying key issues raised Chairman to all Board members.
All Board key shareholders to engage further in relation by institutional shareholders as well as a members continued to perform well, and to the Groups Remuneration Policy.
Details of commentary on share price performance.
each was considered to be making an the rationale for proposing changes before The Board receives a report at each meeting effective contribution to the Board.
the third anniversary of the Policy agreed on any changes to the holdings of the last year are set out in the Remuneration Companys main institutional shareholders.
For disclosures required by paragraph Report.
6of the Disclosure and Transparency Topics of discussion shareholders responses in relation to these Rules and the Companies Act 2006 seethe Other Corporate Disclosures section proposals, however, no policy changes are This year, shareholders were keen to hear on pages108114 being put forward this year.
more about the Groups NGP strategy and the development of the ecigarette sector.
Annual programme Developments in industry regulation, A full programme of engagement with including the impact of plain packaging in shareholders, potential investors and analysts, Australia and the potential impact of more in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each plain packaging regulation in other countries year by the Head of Investor Relations.
was also of interest, as was the continued On occasions he is accompanied by one or rollout of the Groups new Operating Model more Executive Directors and Management and Global IT solution.
Every two years, combined issues, specifically with regard to developments investor meetings are held over two days in the Eurozone continue to be key issues with the Management Board in attendance.
At a market level, The next such meeting will be in 2015. continued concerns were expressed about pricing and excise and the impact on the Group, especially with regard to illicit trade.
55 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Board effectiveness continued Board evaluation 2014 Leadership Oversight Meetings Findings Findings Findings The Board is considered to have a clear The Board as a whole is effective in tracking The annual Board programme is considered understanding of the Groups business and delivery of strategy and in providing the to be comprehensive, agendas to be properly the environment within which it operates: necessary oversight: prioritised and papers are of a high quality: and Market visits are particularly appreciated as a The Board has a good view of the Groups Issues are debated openly and fully with useful tool, allowing NonExecutive Directors activities through participation in the Audit searching and robust questions posed to to see the Groups strategy in action: CSR Committee framework, and risk is management, when necessary.
monitored by the Board in this context: and Action for 2015 The Board understands the regulatory environment within which it operates and The formal risk management process Regional functional reviews that deal with receives excellent briefings in this area: and highlights the key risks to the business.
specific areas of the Groups business will be The NonExecutive Directors appreciate that included in the Board programme.
On strategy, the focus on the long term, there are also other opportunities for them particularly on nextgeneration products, Progress in 2014 to consider risks, including at the regional strategic M&A and evolving markets NonExecutive Director feedback on end Audit and CSR committees, Corporate Audit was applauded.
market visits has become a regular agenda Committee and at the indepth strategy days.
Action for 2015 item at Board meetings and generates Action for 2015 The more recently appointed NonExecutive andinforms debates relating to business How the Group sets its appetite for risk will Directors need to become more familiar activities: and be reviewed in the context of the Financial with the Company and the industry.
Stakeholder mapping is now incorporated Reporting Councils revised Guidance on Detailed induction plans, as well as market as an annual item on the agenda of the RiskManagement which was issued in visits, will ensure that all NonExecutive CSR Committee.
September 2014: and Directors are made aware of the principal challenges and opportunities facing Time with individual members of the the Group.
Management Board will further develop theBoards confidence in effective oversight, Progress in 2014 as well as helping with succession planning.
In 2014, the format of market visits was Progress in 2014 changed to allow the Directors to gain greater insight into a specific aspect of the business.
Improved risk mapping, including an annual The Chairman, Savio Kwan, Gerry Murphy and review of stakeholder maps by the CSR Richard Tubb visited Mexico, a commercial and Committee, is a good example of how the manufacturing hub for the local market and for overall risk profile is being tracked: and export to Canada.
Christine MorinPostel, Ann The format change to the market visits has Godbehere and Kieran Poynter accompanied also helped to improve oversight, providing the Chairman on a visit to Romania and effective deep dives into specific areas of the reviewed its direct sales delivery operation as business, including a focus on relevant CSR well as the support services function for finance.
Collective decision making The Chairman seeks a consensus at Board meetings but, if necessary, decisions are taken bymajority.
If any Director has concerns on any issue that cannot be resolved, such concerns arenoted in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2014.
When required, the NonExecutive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet prior to Board meetings and without the Executive Directors present.
The Executive and the NonExecutive Directors also meet annually, led by the Senior Independent Director and without the Chairman present, in order to discuss the Chairmans performance.
56 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Support Composition Working together Findings Findings Findings The NonExecutive Directors expressed All Directors are aware of the current Board There is an even contribution by all Directors their satisfaction with the induction process refreshment exercise and the need for across the variety of topics discussed at and were comfortable with the ongoing additional NonExecutive Directors with Board meetings: level of training and support they receive in specific skills and experience: and Differences of opinion have been performing their duties: At Board level the Group has a relatively discussed candidly at Board level and The NonExecutive Directors receive sufficient, good gender balance.
However, the Board a better understanding of different relevant and uptodate information about the is concerned to see improved diversity at perspectives obtained: Groups business on a regular basis: and Executive and senior management level.
Feedback on the views of institutional Action for 2015 Directors are briefed regularly on their investors is accurate and all stakeholder legal duties, the relevant areas of corporate viewsare taken into account in the Boards Planning will commence for the next Board governance and opportunities are given decision making: and refreshment, which is likely to be required forfurther training.
Shareholder views have been particularly 55, the Chairman meets each NonExecutive influential over the Boards consideration Progress in 2014 Director individually, each year, to discuss ofremuneration proposals.
Recognising the strength of the Boards their training and development plans.
Action for 2015 culture and dynamics, the composition matrix Action for 2015 The NonExecutive Directors are committed considered by the Nominations Committee Responsiveness and effectiveness to be to building good relationships with all factored in the balance of individual maintained: and members of the Management Board, approaches and styles in addition tospecific Using feedback from Sue Farr, Pedro Malan including those recently appointed, as this experience.
Recent Board appointments have and Dimitri Panayotopoulos following their willhelp them with succession planning: and taken this into account: induction, the induction process will be Market visits and continued attendance by The Board throughout 2014 continued to refined and improved further.
NonExecutive Directors at regional Audit scrutinise plans to promote gender diversity andCSR committees and the Corporate Audit insenior management roles and diversity in Progress in 2014 Committee will continue to improve their itsbroadest sense across the business: and Guidance and support has been provided understanding of the business.
throughout the year, as required, in the Significant progress was made reviewing operation of the Board software system potential candidates during 2014 leading to Progress in 2014 andsettings have been amended to allow the appointment in February 2015 of: Pedro The Chairman held a number of meetings alibrary of Board papers to be generated.
Malan expertise in finance and extensive with the NonExecutive Directors without the experience in Brazil and Latin America : Sue Executive Directors present throughout the Farr brand marketing and communications year.
These helped to facilitate better working experience : and Dimitri Panayotopoulos relationships between members ofthe Board.
FMCG experience at senior executive level.
57 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
