Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Leadership and effectiveness Governance framework The Board Board programme The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups vision and Our annual Board programme is designed to enable the Board to strategic direction, its values and its governance.
The Board is monitor and review the delivery of strategy across all the elements accountable to shareholders for the performance of the business of the Groups business model, which is set out in our Strategic andthe Groups long-term success.
It provides the leadership Report on pages 14 and 15.
The key activities of the Board in necessary forthe Group to meet its performance objectives 2014, grouped under the Groups four strategy pillars: Growth, withinaframework of internal controls.
Productivity, Sustainability and Winning Organisation, are set out in theaccompanying table on pages 52 and 53.
The Boards Board responsibilities: strategic priorities for 2015 are identified within the key performance Group strategy.
indicatorsset out inour Strategic Report on page 18.
The Board devotes considerable attention to corporate governance Major corporate activities.
Risk management and internal control.
matters relating to the Groups internal controls and compliance Annual Report approval.
It receives verbal updates from the chairmen of the Audit, Periodic financial reporting.
Remuneration and CSR Committees following each Committee Dividend policy.
Copies of the minutes of the Audit and CSR Committees arecirculated to all members of the Board.
Board Committees The Board has established four principal Board Committees listed below, to which it has delegated certain responsibilities.
The roles, membership and activities of these Committees are described in detail in their individual reports in this section.
Each Committee has itsownterms of reference, available at www.
com governance, which are updated regularly, most recently in December 2013.
Audit CSR Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee page 58 page 64 page 66 page 67 Management Board Next-Generation Products NGP Board The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, is The NGP Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, focuses responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Groups exclusively onthe Groups non-combustible tobacco and nicotinestrategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating the based businesses.
Its other members are the Finance Director frameworkfor the successful day-to-day operation of the and ManagingDirector, NGP.
It also included Des Naughton, Groupsoperating subsidiaries.
Alongside the Finance Director, previouslyManaging Director of Nicoventures, who was a member itsother members, at the date of this Report, comprise 12senior of the Management Board until his departure from the Group on Group executives whose biographies appear on pages 50 and 51.
Principal Management Board role: Principal NGP Board role: Developing Group strategy for Ensuring regional and functional Developing strategy on nonOverseeing the NGP businesses approval by the Board.
strategies are effective and aligned combustible tobacco and nicotineportfolio of programmes and and managing the central functions.
based products for approval by projects.
Reviewing regional and functional Overseeing the management budgets.
Monitoring the overall performance anddevelopment of talent within Developing guidelines for the of the NGP businesses.
Overseeing the management anddevelopment of talent.
Making recommendations to the Board on NGP matters.
Leadership roles and responsibilities Leadership Oversight Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors NEDs Senior Independent Director SID Leadership of the Board.
Overall responsibility Help develop strategy.
Lead review of Chairmans forperformance.
Preside at Board in Chairmans Facilitate contribution of Directors.
Enable planning and execution Bring an external perspective Interface with shareholders.
Available to meet with major Ensure effective shareholder shareholders.
47 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
