56 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement All ICAPs directors have a good understanding of the markets, regions UK Corporate Governance Code and regulatory frameworks within which the Group operates as well The corporate governance statement sets out how the Company has as the technology it uses.
The biographies of the directors highlight the applied the principles of the Code during the year ended 31 March 2014 skills and experience each director brings and are set out on pages 52 and details ICAPs governance framework and its management practices, and 53.
The Chairman has a limited number of other commitments, together with the directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 88. which reduced during the year with his resignation as Chairman of The Code can be found on the FRCs website at www.
CPP Group Plc and St. Jamess Place plc.
Board governance The board is responsible for providing leadership of the Group and for ensuring the Group has the appropriate people, financial resources and controls in place to deliver the long-term objectives, commercial strategy and risk management strategy set by the board.
Details of the strategic priorities and the business model are detailed in the strategic report on Balance of the board pages 8 to 19.
1 Roles and responsibilities Chairman The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are clearly Independent non-executive directors defined and distinctly separate.
This division of responsibilities is set out 3 Executive directors in writing and approved by the board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders, and the Group Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business, within the limits delegated to him by the board.
4 Board members ICAP is headed by an appropriately experienced board of eight members, comprising the non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Executive Director, Americas and the Group Finance Director and four independent non-executive Directors tenure directors.
Hsieh Fu Hua retired as a non-executive director at the Companys annual general meeting in July 2013.
Following this meeting Ivan Ritossa was appointed as a non-executive director.
He brings to 1 1 2 years the board extensive experience of international markets, particularly in 2 5 years electronic trading.
5 years 3 John Sievwright is the senior independent director and is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer or other executive director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
4 The independence of the non-executive directors is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the directors evaluation process.
This takes into account length of tenure, ability to provide objective challenge to management and any relationships that might be considered as a factor when determining independence.
The board has determined that all directors are independent against the criteria stated in the Code.
All have shown independence of character and exercised independent judgement.
The non-executive directors are members of the principal committees of the board, these being Audit, Governance, Risk, Nomination and Remuneration.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations for appointments to the Audit and Risk Committees.
The board makes all other committee appointments.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 57 ICAPs governance framework Board The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring e ective communication with shareholders.
Chairman Board Operational Risk Framework Audit Governance Risk Implementation Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive The Group Chief Executive O cer is responsible for leading and managing the business, within limits delegated to him by the board.
Group Chief Executive O cer Global Executive Management Group Global Operating Group Risk and Committee Capital Committee 58 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors and the Group Activities during the year Company Secretary, sets the agenda for board meetings.
All directors receive documentation prior to each meeting on the matters to be Summary of board business during discussed to enable them to exercise their judgement in the discharge the year ended 31 March 2014 of their duties.
In addition, directors receive management information on a monthly basis.
GEMG members and other senior executives May 2013 London attend meetings by invitation to present on their areas of expertise and Annual Report 2013 responsibility within the business.
final dividend recommendation The board operates in accordance with an approved schedule of review of progress against strategic objectives matters reserved for the board.
The board specifies policies and delegated authorities to which all members of the Group are required to review of business reports and projects adhere.
Details of the principal matters reserved for the board include presentation on Global Broking business the following: update on EBS Direct to approve the Groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy, July 2013 London budget and significant acquisitions, investments and disposals: update on major projects to determine the Groups risk appetite and risk management strategy: update on regulatory investigations to approve changes to capital structure: financial update to approve the Groups financial statements and its interim approval of interim management statement management statements: and succession planning to approve the interim dividend and make a recommendation for the September 2013 London final dividend.
review of full-year financial forecast Six board meetings were held during the year.
Between these meetings, the board convened by conference calls to receive trading reports and Money Laundering Officers annual report updates on current issues which included regulatory investigations.
review of Global Broking structure and governance review of Group strategy Board attendance The following table sets out the directors who served on the board November 2013 London during the year and their meeting attendance.
financial overview Total Attended approval of half-year results Charles Gregson 6 6 presentation from the FCA Michael Spencer 6 6 SEF implementation update John Nixon 6 6 January 2014 Jersey City Iain Torrens 6 6 business presentations from Traiana and Hsieh Fu Hua 2 1 ICAP Shipping management Ivan Ritossa 4 4 financial update and forecast Diane Schueneman 6 6 approval of financing strategy John Sievwright 6 6 approval of interim management statement SEF update Robert Standing 6 6 ICAP Fusion update and demonstration Hsieh Fu Hua retired from the board and stood down at the Companys annual general meeting in July 2013.
March 2014 Shanghai Ivan Ritossa joined the board in July 2013 and has attended all meetings since financial update his appointment.
approval of pre-close trading statement presentations on economic and political outlook in China ICAPs opportunities in China SEF update board and committees effectiveness review Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 59 The review confirmed that board and committee meetings are Board induction and continuing development conducted in such a way as to permit and foster an excellent atmosphere On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a full in which to have challenging discussions and provide sufficient time to and formal induction.
This covers training and briefings, including meet the board and committee agendas.
The board review suggested directors duties and the UK listing regime, an overview of the business, that, going forward, in the continuing evolving market environment, its operations, risk and regulatory matters, governance, finance and the boards priorities for 2014 15 continue to be strategy testing and investor relations.
developing, people talent development and succession planning and a focus on ICAPs changing customer base.
Ivan Ritossa received the formal induction pack and specific briefings on the Groups financial position, financing facilities and the strategy The Chairmans evaluation was led by John Sievwright as senior and implementation of ICAPs SEF.
In addition he attended the senior independent director.
It concluded that the Chairmans leadership of the management conference and participated in a session entitled A view board provides a culture of openness and debate and ensures that all from the buy side.
directors are able to contribute at board meetings with no one individual able to dominate board discussions and decisions.
The evaluation also During the year all directors received a number of updates on the noted that the Chairman uses the experiences and skills of the nonregulatory environment, from both external advisors and ICAPs senior executive directors very constructively to assist with the board agenda managers, and update briefings on governance changes and their and its development.
The board evaluation process identified specific areas of development for the coming year.
Directors conflicts of interest Board meetings were held at various Group locations to assist with The board has procedures in place for the disclosure of conflicts of the boards greater understanding of the business and to provide an interest.
Directors are aware of their responsibility to avoid a situation opportunity for the directors to meet with local management and whereby they have an actual or potential conflict of interest and employees to gain a wider view of these businesses.
the requirement to inform the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary of any change in their situation.
An effective procedure is in Board committees place for the board to authorise conflict situations should they arise, in To assist the board in carrying out its duties, certain roles and accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles responsibilities are delegated to the board committees Audit, of association.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for keeping Governance, Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
appropriate records, including the scope of any authorisations granted During the year a new committee, the Operational Risk Framework by the board and ensures the board undertakes regular reviews of Implementation Committee, was established with responsibility for the conflict authorisations.
oversight of areas identified as requiring improvement in operational risk.
Compliance with the Code Details of the membership and work of these committees are shown on It is the boards view that for the year ended 31 March 2014 the pages 60 to 69.
Company has been fully compliant with all the principles set out in the Board evaluation Code.
The boards approach to tendering the external audit is set out in the Audit Committee report.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 an external evaluation of the board and board committees was undertaken using an external facilitator, Lintstock.
Board members and the Group Company Secretary were asked to complete a questionnaire.
The objective of the evaluation was to provide insight into the effectiveness of the board and to identify actions for improving performance.
Lintstock does not provide any other advisory services to ICAP.
60 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Audit Committee Chairmans overview Audit Committee As chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce The Audit Committee is responsible for the effective governance of the this report which sets out how the committee has discharged its Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of financial disclosures responsibilities during the year.
The committees primary focus is to and both the external and internal audit functions.
It is authorised by the ensure the integrity of the financial reporting by reviewing the controls board to carry out any activity within its terms of reference, which are in place and those areas where judgement is required.
available to view on the Companys website at www.
The principal areas of judgement which were considered by the The principal areas of responsibility are: committee were the annual goodwill impairment review, consideration to review and challenge the integrity of external financial reporting: of the Groups significant accounting policies, including the provisions to review the Groups internal financial controls: and items to be considered exceptional, and the Groups tax strategy.
Further details of the areas which were addressed can be found on to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal and page 61. external auditors: to consider the appointment of the external auditor and assess The board is also required to provide a statement that, taken as a whole, its independence: it believes the Annual Report and financial statements to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The governance framework to provide such to review and approve the internal audit plan: assurance to the committee, and to the board, and the statement itself, to make recommendations to the board relating to the appointment is set out in this report and on page 74. or dismissal of the outsourced internal audit function: There has been much external debate about the length of tenure of to review the major findings and recommendations of external audit auditor appointments and the committee has discussed the challenges reports: and and benefits to these proposals.
 LLP and its to approve external audit fees.
predecessor firms have been ICAPs auditor since 1999.
In order to The committee may seek any information it requires from any employee, ensure that  LLPs independence is maintained, and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the committee considers  LLPs effectiveness the Audit Committee and to obtain outside legal or other independent through the quality of the audit findings and managements response professional advice, and to secure the attendance of outsiders with through an annual review process.
relevant experience and expertise, if the committee considers this The committee considers that the relationship with the external auditor necessary, at the Groups expense.
continues to work well and remains satisfied with its effectiveness and The Audit Committee reports to the board.
In light of the Codes transitional arrangements, it is not considered necessary to require  LLP to Committee members tender for the audit work for 2014 15 although this will be kept under The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive regular review.
directors and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright.
The board is satisfied that all committee members have recent and relevant financial  LLPs audit and non-audit fees are experience and bring extensive financial expertise to the committee.
set, monitored and reviewed by the committee throughout the Under the committees terms of reference, and to ensure a free flow of year.
The non-audit fees for the year were primarily for COREP information, at least one member of the Audit Committee should be a implementation and CRD IV impact analysis.
The non-audit spend was member of the Risk Committee.
Currently, all members of the committee in line with the current policy of not exceeding 75% of the audit fee.
are also members of the Risk Committee.
The following table sets out the directors who served on the Audit John Sievwright Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance.
Chairman Audit Committee meetings Audit Committee 14 May 2014 Total Attended John Sievwright chairman 5 5 Diane Schueneman 5 5 Robert Standing 5 5 Meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the board, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group General Counsel, Deputy Group CFO, CFO Group Finance, KPMG Group Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner.
The chairman of the Audit Committee maintains contact with attendees throughout the year.
There have been two meetings during 2013 14 when the committee has met with the KPMG Group Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner without any executive director or member of management present.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 61 Activities during the year Additionally, the auditing standards require the external auditor An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance to presume risks of fraud in revenue recognition and the risk of are considered by the committee and that business and reporting management override of controls as significant audit risk areas and to requirements are met.
perform procedures to address those risks.
The committee concluded that, based on the findings reported by the external and internal auditors, During the year, the committees work included: and from its own review of internal control and the risk management system, the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 th e appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements were not exposed to a material risk arising from either of these risk areas.
and financial announcements to the London Stock Exchange: th e going concern statement and the appropriateness of preparing The work described above provided the assurance to the committee, the Groups financial statements for the year and half year on a going and to the board, that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March concern basis: 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the th e review of financial reports from internal auditors and the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
effectiveness of systems for the internal control and financial reporting: th e annual schedule of work to be conducted by the external and The committee has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day financial internal audit teams: management and monitoring of financial controls to the GRACC.
a uditor rotation and appropriate timing: Internal audit th e effectiveness of the external audit: and The internal audit function, which is outsourced to KPMG, reports to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit establishes an annual audit plan based on th e effectiveness of internal audit.
discussions with management and an assessment of the risks inherent Financial reporting in the Groups activities.
The results of these audits provide assurance The committee reviews the Groups accounting policies, it monitors to management and the Audit and Risk Committees that the system the integrity of the Groups financial statements including the half-year of internal control achieves its objectives and highlights gaps and areas and annual reports and interim management statements, and other for improvement.
announcements relating to the Groups financial performance to ensure An evaluation of the KPMG internal audit team and its work was carried that these present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups out by questionnaire during the year.
The results showed that the financial position and outlook.
relationship was improving as the KPMG team become more familiar with During the year, the committee considered certain accounting the Groups business, history and risk profile.
The internal audit priorities and financial reporting areas to be of a more subjective nature.
for 2014 15 will be on thematic audits that focus on the big areas of Throughout the year, management presented to the committee concern and risk for the Group, including information technology.
its position on those areas that were material in nature and involved External auditor significant management judgement and assumptions.
The committee has discussed the requirements of the Code in respect The committee considers the annual goodwill impairment review to of tendering the Groups external audit and has recommended to the be a significant judgement area and, as such, reviewed the impairment board not to carry out a tender process for 2014 15.
This decision will testing which had been undertaken by management during March be kept under regular review, in light of the Codes transitional 2014.
The impairment test identified an impairment loss of 11 million arrangements that will require the Group audit to be tendered by which management presents in the acquisition and disposal costs 2017 18.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys column in the consolidated income statement.
In reviewing this area, choice of external auditor.
the committee considered the appropriateness of managements During the year, the committee reviewed and approved the proposed judgements and estimates and, where appropriate, discussed these audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2013 14 audit and judgements and estimates with the external auditor, see note 14 to recommended to the board that it proposes to shareholders that the financial statements.
 LLP be re-appointed as the Groups external The committee considered and approved the Groups significant auditor for 2014 15.
 LLP expressed their accounting policies, including managements position on provisions and its willingness to continue as auditor of the Company and resolutions definition of exceptional items see the basis of preparation statement on proposing their re-appointment and determination of their remuneration page 103, which remained consistent with the prior year.
The committee will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 16 July 2014. discussed and approved the appropriateness of items, considering their nature and materiality, that were presented in the exceptional items column in the consolidated income statement.
The committee, where appropriate, discussed managements judgements and estimates with the external auditor, and approved the provisions as at 31 March 2014.
The committee considered and approved the Groups tax strategy, the strategic objectives of which were to deliver shareholder value by complying with all tax obligations and being open and transparent with the relevant tax authorities.
62 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Governance Committee A policy is in place whereby the expenditure with the Groups auditor on Governance Committee non-audit fee should not exceed 75% of the audit fee.
The committee The committee is responsible for the review of governance monitors the balance of spend on audit and non-audit fees to ensure arrangements and to offer recommendations and make decisions in their continued independence.
During the year  relation to all aspects of the governance environment of the Group and LLP provided a limited amount of non-audit fee work, including COREP its principal subsidiaries and to ensure the Groups governance facilitates implementation, CRD IV impact analysis and tax advisory work.
The total efficient, effective management that can deliver shareholders value spend on these services was 700,000 being 19% of the audit fee over the longer term.
It is authorised by the board to carry out any 2012 13 20%.
Any proposed non-audit assignments, with fees activity within its terms of reference, which are available to view on the in excess of 100,000, are subject to the Audit Committees prior Companys website at www.
approval and fees below this limit are approved by the chairman of the Audit Committee and reported to the committee.
Note 3 to the financial The principal areas of responsibility are: statements details the fees paid to the external auditors for audit and to review the Groups governance standards: non-audit services.
to review regulatory enquiries: An evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process for to review and approve the Group Policies and Delegated Authorities: 2012 13 was carried out by questionnaire following the completion of to review and approve the design and delivery of training provided to the audit for that year.
The results of this assessment were reviewed by the Companys directors and directors of subsidiary companies: the committee in March 2014 and concluded the external audit team continued to be effective throughout the Group.
The appointment of to approve the terms of reference of the board committees: a new lead partner had not affected the continuity or level of service to approve the composition of the boards of the Groups principal and further improvement in the working relationship going forward was financing subsidiaries and the regulated entities: anticipated.
The assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit to review the operation of the applicable governance arrangements for process for 2013 14 will be undertaken following completion of the ICAPs RIE and the SEF entities and other significant subsidiaries: and Group audit.
to review and determine reputation risk issues related to proposed new Committee evaluation business initiatives or transactions.
The results of the external evaluation showed that the effectiveness of the Audit Committee was highly rated.
It was noted in particular that the The committee reports to the board.
quality of the information provided to the committee by internal audit had Committee members improved and that this had greatly assisted the committee in its review.
The Governance Committee membership is made up of the Chairman The areas of focus for 2014 15 will include ongoing regulatory of the board, the senior independent director, the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director.
The Chairman of the board is training and a continued focus on technology competencies and business resilience.
chairman of the committee and the Group Chief Operating Officer and the Group General Counsel are attendees.
The following table sets out the directors who served on the Governance Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance.
Governance Committee meetings Total Attended Charles Gregson chairman 6 6 John Sievwright 6 5 Michael Spencer 6 4 Iain Torrens 6 5 Apologies for absence were received in advance by John Sievwright, Michael Spencer and Iain Torrens owing to unavoidable diary conflicts.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 63 Risk Committee Activities during the year Chairmans overview An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance I am pleased to introduce the Risk Committee report and to use this are considered by the committee and that business and reporting opportunity to highlight a number of the areas on which the committee requirements are met.
has spent its time during the year.
During the year, the committees work included: One of the committees principal areas of responsibility is to review the r eview of ICAP Americas governance arrangements: quality and effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and to ensure that the key risks of the Group are properly assessed and a pproval of the appointment of directors for regulated entities: mitigated.
The Groups risk profile remained largely unchanged during the r eview of ISDX governance arrangements and processes to year under review with strategic, operational and liquidity risks continuing launch new products: to be the Groups three principal risks.
The committee is also responsible r eview of delegated authorities and new business initiatives policy: for assessing risk in the Groups strategy and emerging risks and during the year this included a review of the risks, and mitigation of those risks, r eview summary of ICAAP for each UK regulated entity: and in the launch of the ICAP SEF in the US.
The committee reviewed the r eview of proposed governance structure of the SEF.
Groups business continuity planning following the learnings following Of particular significance were the discussions on the Undertakings Hurricane Sandy in the US.
agreed with the CFTC and the FCA Body of Orders to be implemented Another important focus for the committee during the year has following the yen Libor settlements and the review of the remediation been that of operational risk following the identification of a number programme and cultural changes required.
As part of the review of areas which required improvement.
A separate board committee, the committee has taken responsibility for the delivery of both the the Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committee chaired Undertakings agreed with the CFTC and the FCA Body of Orders.
by Charles Gregson, has been established to provide oversight of the Under the committees responsibility for reviewing core governance implementation of the improvement programme.
To support the standards, the committee has reviewed the Companys compliance with programme, the Risk Committee has received a number of presentations the Code and explanations to shareholders as to how its implementation from divisional chief executive officers on the risks faced by their specific is consistent with good governance.
businesses and the mitigating actions.
These have provided valuable assurance to the committee that the business, as the first line of defence, is fully engaged in the risk management process.
The committees evaluation review confirmed that the committees agenda covers appropriate areas and that there is a high quality of discussion at meetings.
Due to the committee members experience, there is a very high level of engagement and understanding of the risk issues facing ICAP both internally and externally which provides a high level of challenge to management.
The following section provides further detail of how the committee fulfilled its responsibilities.
John Sievwright Chairman Risk Committee 14 May 2014 64 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Risk Committee continued Activities during the year Risk Committee An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance The committee is responsible for setting the overall risk strategy, are considered by the committee and that business and reporting risk appetite and risk tolerance for the Group to ensure that the risk requirements are met.
management function within the Group promotes the success of the Company within this framework.
The Risk Committee is authorised by During the year, the committees work included: the board to carry out any activity within its terms of reference, which are update on operational risk: available on the Companys website at www.
ICAAP project review and scenario challenge follow-up: The principal areas of responsibility are: risk review of ICAPs SEF: to review the quality and effectiveness of the Groups risk management review of internal audit reports: framework, in particular to ensure that the key risks of the Group update on regulatory investigations: including emerging threats are properly assessed and mitigated: restructuring of information security and IT security functions: to monitor the mechanisms of internal control: and approval of amendments to risk taxonomy: to review the internal audit programme as part of integrated assurance.
review of learnings from Hurricane Sandy in respect of business To ensure and reinforce the independence of the risk and compliance continuity plans: and functions, the committee is responsible for approving the appointment presentation of global business continuity management plans.
and dismissal of the Global Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of Compliance and for making recommendations to the Remuneration To support the Risk Committee in the day-to-day risk management of Committee regarding their compensation.
the Group certain responsibilities have been delegated to the GRACC.
The committee reports to the board.
The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the GRACC have terms of reference that require all aspects of the Groups risk management Committee members activities to be regularly reviewed.
The Global Chief Risk Officer and the The Risk Committee members are independent non-executive directors Group Head of Compliance are members of the GRACC and the KMPG and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright.
Three members of the Group Head of Internal Audit is an attendee of the GRACC.
The Global committee are also members of the Audit Committee which facilitates Chief Risk Officer is also a member of the GOC, the executive committee full and free flow of information.
with responsibility for the operations of the Group.
In addition to the The following table sets out the directors who served on the Risk Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the GOC and the GRACC, all Committee during the year and their committee attendance.
lines of business and regions have risk committees which are responsible for supervising risk levels in their respective businesses and regions and Risk Committee meetings acting as the interface between front office management and the Group Total Attended risk function.
John Sievwright chairman 7 7 Committee evaluation The results of the external evaluation showed that the effectiveness of Ivan Ritossa 4 4 the Risk Committee, and in particular the leadership of the chairman of Diane Schueneman 7 7 the committee, was highly rated.
Robert Standing 7 7 The committees focus for 2014 15 will include the Groups ICAAP, risk Ivan Ritossa joined the committee on his appointment to the ICAP plc board in July 2013. appetite and ongoing training for changing regulatory requirements.
The Chairman of the board, the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel, the Global Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Compliance, the KPMG Group Head of Internal Audit, the KPMG IT Internal Audit Partner and the external audit partner regularly attend meetings of the committee.
The chairman of the Risk Committee maintains contact with attendees throughout the year and meets with the Global Chief Risk Officer without other members of the executive being present.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 65 Risk control and management framework First line of defence Business unit: process and risk owners Owns the risk management process Identi es, manages, mitigates and reports on risk Tracks loss data Second line of defence Compliance Risk management Interpret Design Provides interpretation of regulations and Designs and deploys the overall risk management and develop and facilitate disseminates to business units framework across the organisation Monitors compliance with regulations Monitors business unit adherence to framework Develops and monitors policies and procedures and strategy Monitor Monitor Risk assessment based compliance testing Compiles risk across business units and escalates and report and report Advises on regulatory issues and provides training risk and control issues to senior management Performs aggregated risk reporting Third line of defence Internal audit Provides independence testing and veri cation of e cacy of corporate standard and business line compliance Monitor and advise Validates the overall risk framework Provides assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed and identi es improvement opportunities The significant risks of the Group are continually monitored, assessed A key tenet of the three lines of defence model is that the senior and managed by operating a three lines of defence model for the risk management of the Group, in particular those senior managers with management and control of the businesses.
The first line of defence responsibility for overseeing the front, middle and back office functions, comprises senior business and executive management who own the risks are responsible for all control-related business issues and have full and controls for their respective businesses and retain full accountability accountability for the management of the risks in their businesses, within for control-related business issues.
The second line of defence comprises the limits and the control environment established by the Group.
All staff the compliance and risk management functions.
These functions are and managers are required to take a prudent approach to risk taking responsible for the Groups risk framework and infrastructure and identify, and to regularly review the effectiveness of their control environment monitor, mitigate and report key risks.
The internal audit function provides predominantly through a risk and control self-assessment process.
the third line of defence by making a systematic and disciplined evaluation The Groups independent control functions risk, compliance and internal of the business, control and governance frameworks, structures, audit are responsible for ensuring that the control environment is fit for processes and methodologies operating within the Group.
purpose and able to identify and escalate to senior management the Groups key risks and to mitigate these risks where appropriate.
66 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Risk Committee continued Risk management Board Group Chief Executive O cer Operational Risk Member: Framework Risk Committee Global Executive Management Group Implementation Committee Group Chief Operating O cer Member: Global Executive Management Group Global Operating Committee Group Risk and Capital Committee Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committee Attendee: Governance Committee Global Chief Risk O cer Member: Global Operating Committee Group Risk and Capital Committee Attendee: Risk Committee Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committee Group risk department Head of Business Regional Continuity and Head of Head of Group Liquidity Heads of Risk Information Operational Risk Credit Risk Risk Director Security Risk department The Groups risk management function operates under the mandate These tools include: set by the board.
The Global Chief Risk Officer reports functionally to independent monitoring and analysis of the Groups current and the Group Chief Operating Officer.
Under the leadership of regional projected liquidity exposures: heads, with guidance from the global risk function to ensure standard credit risk limits based on an internal scoring system with near real-time best practice, risk departments support each of the businesses globally monitoring of credit exposure globally: and are members of business level and regional risk committees.
The Global Chief Risk Officer is a member of the GOC and the management information, including key risk indicators and product and GRACC and attends the Risk and the Operational Risk Framework region specific dashboards: Implementation Committees.
global risk management policies and procedures: Day-to-day management of risk and its mitigation is the responsibility of operational risk framework: business heads.
Risk management provides an independent assessment periodic risk and control self assessments and process maps: and of the Groups risks and supports the business heads in identifying, stress testing on current exposure and scenario and probability analysis.
monitoring, mitigating and reporting key risks through the use of a range of tools.
In this way, risk management reviews the Groups activities both A number of qualitative and quantitative measures are monitored by functionally and globally.
risk management to ensure that the businesses risks remain within acceptable risk appetite and tolerances.
Using these measures, the Group produces a number of risk intelligence reports which are disseminated through the governance structures at all levels as appropriate.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 67 Compliance management Board Group Chief Operating Ocer Member: Risk Committee Global Executive Management Group Group Risk and Capital Committee Attendee: Risk Committee Group Head of Compliance Member: Group Risk and Capital Committee Attendee: Risk Committee Group compliance department Head of Compliance, EMEA Head of Compliance, Americas Head of Compliance, Asia Pacic Member: Member: Member: Business level and regional Business level and regional Business level and regional risk committees risk committees risk committees Compliance department The Groups compliance department reports to the Group Head of The Groups compliance department undertakes an annual risk Compliance who in turn reports to the Group Chief Operating Officer.
assessment in each region as the basis for the annual compliance plan Dedicated compliance departments support the businesses operating in for those legal entities, desks, offices, business and operating units EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific regions, each under the leadership which will be the subject of compliance review and examination.
ICAPs of regional heads of compliance who are members of regional and compliance risk management framework is risk based, which means that business level risk committees.
The Group Head of Compliance is a ICAP assesses and ranks its compliance risks and prioritises its compliance member of the GRACC and is an attendee of the Risk Committee.
resources accordingly on a Group, regional and business unit basis.
The Groups compliance department operates under the mandate set by the board.
This mandate, inter alia, establishes the compliance department as an independent global control and assurance function which implements and manages ICAPs compliance risk management framework.
This framework is designed to provide assurance that ICAPs business is conducted in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and regulatory standards.
As such, the compliance risk management framework incorporates the requirements of applicable law and published international best practice standards including business advisory support, compliance risk assessment and mitigation, compliance monitoring and surveillance, anti-money laundering compliance and the reporting and escalation of potential and crystallised risks.
68 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Risk Committee continued Internal control The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and the internal control system, which management is responsible for maintaining, and it does this through the Audit and Risk Committees.
The day-to-day business of the Group is managed through a system of financial, operational and compliance controls and monitored by a series of risk management systems.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the independent internal audit function.
The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associates.
Internal control procedures for joint ventures and associates rest with the senior management of these operations and the Company seeks to monitor such investments and exert influence through board representation.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committee During the year the board agreed that a committee, reporting to the board, should be established to provide oversight of the operational risk areas identified as requiring improvement.
The purpose of the committee is to ensure the effective implementation of an appropriate operational risk framework globally and to oversee the embedding of risk within the business and as an integral part of ICAP culture.
Committee members The committee is appointed by the board from the directors and senior managers of the Company and consists of the Chairman of the board, a non-executive director, the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel, the Group Chief Operating Officer, the Global Head of Risk and the Chief Executive Officer, Global Broking.
The chairman of the committee is the Chairman of the board.
Activities during the year The committee met five times during the year to discuss and review progress of the implementation of the operational risk framework programme.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 69 Nomination Committee Activities during the year Nomination Committee Following Hsieh Fu Huas decision to retire as a director, the committee The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and identified the skill set required to fill this position.
Led by the Chairman, composition of the board and for identifying and nominating, for the a number of meetings were held with potential candidates identified approval of the board, candidates to fill board positions as and when by members of the board.
The particular knowledge and industry they arise.
experience of Ivan Ritossa was considered to be the most closely aligned to the requirements set out by the committee.
It was therefore As well as assessing the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on determined that the use of an external search consultancy or open the board, the committee gives consideration to succession planning for advertising was not required for this appointment.
directors and other senior executives.
As part of the committees discussions, succession planning was reviewed The Nomination Committee operates within its terms of reference which for directors and other senior executives to ensure there continued to be are available on the Companys website at www.
com the appropriate mix of skills and experience within the Group to cover the The principal areas of responsibility are: various challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
to identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates to Board appointment policy fill board positions as and when they arise: ICAP is committed to providing and promoting equality of opportunity to balance the skills, knowledge and experience on the board: in employment and advancement and an environment that ensures tolerance and respect for all employees.
ICAPs policy is that no employee, to give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other contractor or temporary worker will be treated less favourably, victimised senior executives: and or harassed on the grounds of disability, gender, marital or civil partnership to keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both status, race, nationality, colour, ethnicity, religion or similar philosophical executive and non-executive.
belief, sexual orientation, age or any distinction other than merit.
Accordingly, all board appointments, including those for non-executive directors are made on merit, acknowledging the benefits a diverse range Committee members of skills, experience, background and gender can bring to the board and it The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise a therefore does not support the implementation of quotas.
majority of independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the board is the chairman of the committee.
Committee evaluation The performance of the Nomination Committee was positively rated in The following table sets out the directors who served on the Nomination the external evaluation undertaken.
Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance.
The focus for 2014 15 will include board succession planning and the Nomination Committee meetings identification of any talent gaps within senior management.
Total Attended Charles Gregson chairman 3 3 Michael Spencer 3 3 Hsieh Fu Hua 1 0 Diane Schueneman 3 3 John Sievwright 3 3 Robert Standing 3 3 Hsieh Fu Hua retired as a director in July 2013.
