36 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility and relationships We recognise our obligations to act responsibly, ethically and with integrity As an integral part of the wholesale financial markets, we believe that On our SEF, regulations specify that we must deliver to all types ICAPs success contributes to the economies in which we operate by of customers, both directly and via sponsored access through our helping companies and organisations manage and mitigate their business bank customers.
risks and government and companies raise capital.
Since its launch in November 2013, adoption of the EBS Direct platform ICAP fulls its corporate responsibilities in a number of different ways.
has exceeded expectations with almost 500 customers now contracted For our shareholders we aim to produce superior returns over the long to the service including 30 non-bank institutions of which 180 have term.
For our customers we aim to provide products and services which, already traded.
This scalable relationship-based disclosed streaming in turn, will enable them to create value.
For our employees, we aim service provides direct access to an enlarged customer base, including to provide an environment that is intellectually challenging, motivating small and regional banks.
Non-bank execution revenue is largely generated from transaction Our principal contribution is to help ensure the efficient functioning activity on EBS and BrokerTec and from Global Brokings commodities and of the global markets.
Our broking and electronic platforms provide futures broking business.
The majority of commodities revenue comes transparency, source liquidity and enable price discovery for our from energy producers, users and trading rms.
The move towards electronic trading in OTC markets, where represents 12% of Group revenue.
Subscription revenue comes from ICAP is a leader, together with our Post Trade Risk and Information data vendors and is generated mainly from our Electronic Markets and business, helps make markets more resilient, safer and more transparent.
Post Trade Risk and Information businesses.
Customers Health and safety ICAP has a broad and growing customer base.
Revenue from our ICAP has a health and safety policy which is approved by the board customers is derived from a wide range of products in different asset and owned by the Group Finance Director.
Regional health and safety classes across both execution and risk mitigation services.
ICAPs broking committees oversee structures for policy compliance.
All employees customers are primarily banks with the relative size of specic customers have a responsibility for ensuring a healthy and safe working environment.
varying considerably by product and geography.
No single customer The great majority of ICAP employees work in an office environment and represents more than 5% of Group revenue.
One of our key strategic therefore there are no significant areas of risk to report.
priorities is to expand and diversify our customer base outside our Suppliers traditional area of expertise.
We rely on a number of key suppliers to help us carry out our business.
As our customers face regulatory change and cost and capital issues, We have procedures in place to ensure purchasing decisions balance cost we have seen our Post Trade Risk and Information business grow.
against other factors including service quality, global reach and resilience.
This has been facilitated by the development of industry standard market infrastructure solutions by TriOptima and Traiana to simplify operational workload.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 37 Under new reporting requirements the table below sets out the Groups Environment estimated greenhouse gas emissions for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Groups environmental policy is approved by the board and owned Tonnes of by the Group Finance Director.
As a service-orientated business, ICAPs COe emissions operations cause minimal environmental impact.
Wherever possible, Scope 1 821 ICAP takes into account the direct and indirect environmental impact of its activities.
Scope 2 17,828 Electricity consumption and air travel are the areas responsible for the Scope 3 15,181 majority of ICAPs carbon emissions.
While we have seen a decrease Total 33,830 in air travel-related emissions, those from consumption of purchased Total emissions per employee 6.8 electricity have increased.
This is due primarily to increased lab capacity following the investment in new technologies and products in our Scope 1 includes direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned EBS business.
ICAP plans to reduce electricity consumption by the or controlled by the company such as natural gas combustion and company virtualisation of its server environment.
Scope 2 accounts for greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased We continue to make use of our telephone and video conferencing electricity, heat and steam generated off-site.
facilities where available and work to introduce more efficient lighting Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions such as waste disposal, business travel and air conditioning in our offices.
Renewable energy sources are used to and employee commuting.
purchase electricity where possible, waste is recycled where facilities are The above estimates were prepared by The CarbonNeutral Company, an available and when office moves are required a key area of focus is the environmental consultancy.
CarbonNeutrals assessment was carried out environmentally friendly nature of the building.
in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting As in previous years, we will be mitigating our total carbon emissions by and Reporting Standard.
Responsibility for emissions sources was investment in carbon reducing projects.
determined using the operational control approach.
Our strategy in action Reinforce cultural values and uphold best practices ICAPs voluntary carbon capture programme In 2012 13 ICAPs voluntary carbon capture programme invested Halterburnhead in 90 hectares of new native woodlands in the UK, comprising Working in partnership with Forest Carbon and the Tweed Forum, 145,000 trees.
These woodlands are certied to the Woodland ICAP has planted one of five new riparian woodlands in the Tweed Carbon Code the UK government quality assurance standard catchment area.
In addition to carbon capture the woodlands and will not only mitigate ICAPs carbon footprint but also deliver have been designed to deliver flood mitigation in the Tweed Valley other benets to society and the environment.
following significant damage from flooding in the area in 2008 and 2009.
ICAP has recommitted to this programme in 2013 14 and invested in a further 70 hectares of UK woodland creation.
There is a considerable body of research evidence pointing to river bank trees being an effective means of flood management.
Benefits of UK woodland creation The woodland projects also provide other benets.
All Woodland By reducing the amount of water reaching rivers, and extending the Carbon Code certied projects offer public access as a core period over which the surge of water is delivered to a river, flooding requirement.
Woodlands also have a significant role to play in is prevented altogether or reduced.
Upstream flood management is mitigating flooding, reducing air pollution, purifying watercourses also cost-effective removing the need for flood protection, or the and creating habitats for biodiversity.
An investment in woodland consequences of flooding, in urban areas.
creation also contributes to the UK rural economy by helping to The new woodlands will also make a valuable contribution to create jobs in the forestry and nursery sectors.
woodland and river biodiversity by maintaining base flows of rivers, The Woodland Carbon Code shading rivers and ltering pollution.
The Woodland Carbon Code delivers independently certied ICAPs project, at Halterburnhead, comprises 42,000 trees, covers woodland creation projects audited by UKAS accredited bodies 26 hectares, and during its lifetime will capture more than 11,000 to ISO standards that offer social and environmental benets.
tonnes of CO. 2 It is the only standard of its kind in the UK.
38 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate responsibility and relationships continued ICAP Charity Day 110m donated since 1993 Cheryl Cole Cheryl Cole Foundation Together we give 100% ICAP Charity Day has had an enormous impact.
By donating all our revenue on one day each year, we have positively changed the lives of thousands of people around the world.
Thanks to the efforts of our customers, Damian Lewis Julie Walters suppliers and employees, an incredible The Howletts Wild Animal Trust Womens Aid 9.5 million $15.5 million was raised on 3 December 2013 bringing the total amount donated over 21 years to more than 110 million.
JLS JLS Foundation Cancer Research UK Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 39 Halle Berry Jenesse Center Daniel Craig SAFE Kenya Opportunity Network & Concerns of Police Survivors Metro NY It is an incredible achievement to have raised 110 million since Charity Day first started and Id like to thank our customers, suppliers and employees as well as our charities and patrons for supporting the special event.
We are delighted to be supporting 200 charities around the world this year.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Watch the video www.
com Visit our Facebook page www.
com icapcharityday Lawrence Dallaglio Holly Willoughby Lawrence Dallaglio Foundation Together for Short Lives Read the tweets www.
com icapcharityday 40 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate responsibility and relationships continued Making a huge impact ICAP Charity Day has made a remarkable difference by supporting more than 1,600 charities worldwide.
It has enabled us to fund projects such as installing Solar Aid renewable energy lighting in Malawi, supporting interactive theatre for sick children in hospitals, therapeutic horse riding for disabled children and medical research for degenerative conditions such as Alzheimers.
Read more about the projects ICAP Charity Day has supported in the Success stories section of the website www.
com success-stories Riding for the Disabled Solar Aid Association Singapore London Riding for the Disabled provides therapy for children A donation from Charity Day enabled SolarAid to with a range of disabilities.
Funds from ICAP Charity expand its operations in Malawi, bringing clean, Day were used to support two horses for the charity, renewable solar energy to hundreds of thousands of which is Singapores only organisation providing people.
Following ICAPs support, 207,179 people therapeutic horse riding.
The horses, named ICAP have benefited from clean, safe solar lights in Malawi.
Evolution and ICAP Leopard, will be put through their The impact of switching from kerosene lamps to paces as they provide disabled people of all ages with safe solar lighting is astonishing.
Not only does it save an exciting and rewarding experience.
Horses provide families nearly 45 a year, it also provides double the a tool for physical therapy, emotional growth and lighting hours each evening enabling children to do cognitive improvement in a unique format that is fun their homework and study for longer.
Besides the physical benets, riders Two-thirds of head teachers spoken to by SolarAid gain increased self-confidence, improved circulation, maintain that children with solar lights had better respiration, balance, coordination and mobility.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 41 The Art Room London A donation from ICAPs Charity Day funded The ICAP Art Room at Northolt High School in London.
The Art Room provides art as therapy for children and young people between the ages of 5 and 16, many of whom are disengaged from mainstream education, to help raise their self-esteem, selfconfidence and independence.
Participating children are delighted with the new service, with one saying, I want to live in The Art Room!
Head teacher Gloria Lowe says The Art Room has been a wonderful and most welcome addition to the learning community of Northolt High School.
Only Make Believe United States Only Make Believe creates and performs interactive theatre for sick children in hospitals and care facilities.
The aim is to let the children have a brief respite from worrying about their illnesses and daily treatments and have some fun.
ICAPs contribution from Charity Day has enabled Only Make Believe to reach its goal of performing in over 60 hospitals and care facilities, bringing a little magic to the lives of more than 5,000 sick children.
Only Make Believe recognises that freeing a childs imagination is a valuable part of the healing process.
@Heart Wellington @Heart provides lifelong care to children affected by a congenital or childhood heart defect and their families.
A donation from ICAP Charity Day has enabled @Heart to continue its practical and emotional support of families living with the impact of a serious heart condition.
The charity runs monthly Murmurs groups providing essential support for young families before and after their childs surgery.
Through ICAPs donation, @Heart has made it possible for more families to access this vital support network, and was also able to send six teenagers and one cardiac nurse to attend the annual Teen Beat in Auckland in 2013.
