CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors are pleased to submit their report, together Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES with the Group Financial Statements for the year ended Spain and Sweden.
It has operating subsidiaries in the US, In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities 31 May 2014.
The Directors Report comprises pages Singapore, Japan, Australia, India, Switzerland and Belarus.
must disclose both the nature and extent of any potential in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles 96 to 98 of this report, together with the sections of the or actual conflicts with the interests of the Company.
We and certain laws or regulations, such as those related to REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND LIKELY Annual Report incorporated by reference.
explain the procedure for this in the Board section, on insider trading, which may be imposed from time to time.
The Directors and certain employees of the Company are The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Directors We provide a review of the Groups progress, outlining required to obtain the Companys approval prior to dealing to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report and developments during the year and giving an indication INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES in the Companys securities.
The Company is not aware of Accounts.
This information can be found on pages 8 to of likely future developments, in the Strategic Report on The Group has Directors and Officers liability insurance any agreements between holders of securities that may 47.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with section pages 8 to 47.
The Strategic Report also covers an analysis in place, providing appropriate cover for any legal action result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 414 C 11 of the Act and as noted in this Directors of the financial position of the Group at the year-end, and brought against its Directors.
Report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report information about our Key Performance Indicators.
indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the that it would otherwise be necessary to disclose in the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year ended EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF SHARES IN EMPLOYEE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Directors Report.
These provisions remain in force for the SHARE SCHEMES The Companys articles of association the Articles are benefit of the Directors, in relation to certain losses and The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust do not seek to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT available from the Groups website, iggroup.
com, or by liabilities which they may incur or have incurred to third exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts, In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules writing to the Company Secretary at the Groups registered parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
The Articles can also be obtained from the UK No voting rights are exercised in relation to shares are set out in this Directors Report and in the Corporate Registrar of Companies.
Amendments to the Articles can RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
Governance Report on pages 48 to 103 which, together only be made by means of a special resolution at a general In the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, is meeting of the Companys shareholders.
develops new products and services.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE OR incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
PURCHASE THE COMPANYS SHARES BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS The Articles permit the Directors to issue or repurchase the ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the Information on the required disclosure of the Groups GHG Companys own shares, subject to obtaining shareholders A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect year are set out on pages 50 to 51 and are incorporated into emissions for the year ended 31 May 2014 is set out in the prior approval.
The shareholders gave this approval at the of the Financial Statements is set out immediately prior this report by reference.
We provide information about the Strategic Report on page 31.
The authority to issue or buy back shares will to that section of the Annual Report, on page 99, and a Directors service contracts, and their interests in the share POLITICAL DONATIONS expire at the 2014 AGM, and it will be proposed at the statement regarding the use of the going-concern basis capital of the Company, in the Directors Remuneration The Company made no political donations to political meeting that the Directors be granted new authorities in preparing these Financial Statements is provided later Report on pages 62 to 87. organisations or independent election candidates and to issue or buy back shares.
The Directors currently have in this report.
Jim Newman joined the Board as Non-Executive Director incurred no political expenditure in the year 2013: nil.
authority to purchase up to 36,541,588 of the Companys The Independent Auditors Report, which sets out the on 1 October 2013 and will be appointed Chairman of ordinary shares.
However, the Company did not repurchase EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT auditors reporting responsibilities, can be found on the Audit Committee after Martin Jackson steps down any of its ordinary shares during the year.
The Company is fully committed to involving employees pages 100 to 103. from the Board at the Annual General Meeting AGM on in all aspects of the business.
Detailed information on During the year, the Company instructed the trustee of the 16 October 2014.
Jonathan Davie will also retire from the PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS employee engagement can be found on page 28 of the Employee Benefit Trust to purchase shares in order to satisfy Board at the AGM, and will be replaced by Andy Green as The Groups statutory profit for the year after taxation Strategic Report.
awards under the Groups share-incentive plan schemes.
amounted to 147,035,000 2013: 141,748,000, all The Company also issued shares in respect of long-term EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES of which is attributable to the equity members of the APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS incentive plan and value-sharing plan schemes.
Details of We give full and fair consideration to applications for Company 2013: 141,692,000.
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed the shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts and employment from people with disabilities.
Information on by the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the the amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 28 The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend the Companys policy on employing people with disabilities Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
of 22.40 pence per share, amounting to 81,814,000, can be found on page 28 of the Strategic Report.
The Board has the power to appoint any person as a making a total of 28.15 pence per share and 102,807,000 Director to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director, SHARE CAPITAL for the year.
Dividends are recognised in the Financial provided the total number of Directors does not exceed The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, Statements for the year in which they are paid or, in the maximum prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director B shares and preference shares.
As at 31 May 2014, the the case of a final dividend, when approved by the holds office only until the next AGM, and is then eligible to Companys issued shares comprised 365,754,631 ordinary shareholders.
The amount recognised in the Financial offer himself or herself for election.
shares of 0.005p each, 65,000 B shares of 0.001p and 40,000 Statements, as described in note 12, includes this preference shares of 1.00 each.
Details of movement in financial years interim dividend and the final dividend The Articles also require that all those Directors who have the Companys share capital and rights attached to the from the previous year, both of which were paid.
been in office at the time of the two previous AGMs, and issued shares are given in notes 26 and 27 to the Financial who did not retire at either of them, must retire as The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on Statements.
Information about the rights attached to the Directors by rotation.
Such Directors are eligible to stand 18 November 2014 to those shareholders on the register Companys shares can also be found in the Articles.
However, in line with the Codes at 24 October 2014. of the Groups required regulatory capital are disclosed in recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies note 37 to the Financial Statements.
OPERATIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM should be subject to annual election, all our Directors will In line with our strategic objectives, the Group has stand for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM, with the branches in Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, exception of Jonathan Davie and Martin Jackson, who are retiring from the Board.
96 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 97 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Report
