ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 RISk COMMITTee RepORT Dear shareholder CoMMIttee GovernanCe During the year we have focused on the roLe anD responsIBILItIes risks impacting the Group, particularly The Committee meets regularly, at least those arising from the Groups geographic three times a year, and is responsible for: expansion and consequently increased exposure to regulation.
Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems The Board established a separate Risk Committee at the end of the 2013 financial Reviewing and approving the statements year.
The identification, control, mitigation to be included in the Annual Report and reporting of risks is a fundamental concerning risk management KevIn parrY Chairman of the Risk Committee aspect of operating in the financial Reviewing any reports on the sector.
Good practice requires a sound effectiveness of systems risk management understanding of the Groups risks, our appetite for risk taking and mitigations to limit Reviewing the Groups procedures for downsides.
Consequently, during the course identifying, assessing, controlling and of the current year, the Risk Committee has mitigating the material risks faced by the worked closely with the Audit Committee Group and to ensure these procedures with the aim of effectively covering pertinent allow proportionate and independent topics in one or other forum.
investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action The following pages set out the Risk Committee report for the financial year.
CoMposItIon The report considers: The Committee consists of Non Executive 1.
Committee governance: our scope and Directors only.
The current members are terms of reference Kevin Parry Chairman of the Committee, Justin Dowley, Peter Gibbs, Lindsey 2. Review of the year: the significant risk McMurray and Kim Wahl.
Full details of their issues we addressed attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the Corporate Governance section on page 51.
Biographical details can be found on pages 48 and 49.
The Committee members have a wide range of business and financial experience, including risk management, fund management and investment, regulation and compliance, M&A, tax and international business practices.
These skills enable the Committee to fulfil its Terms of Reference in a robust and independent manner.
The Managing Directors of the Board are not members of the Committee but attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements ICAAP during the year, the Committee revIeW of the Year reviewed the capital adequacy of the Set out below are the significant issues Group having regard to all risks facing considered during the year: the Group as required under the Internal Specific risks arising from the Groups Capital Adequacy Assessment Process exposure to new regulations and from ICAAP of the FCA.
The Pillar 3 undertaking activities in new jurisdictions disclosures required to be made public as during the year the Group drew closer a result are available on the Companys to undertaking activities in a number of website at www.
com jurisdictions, predominantly the United In the year ahead the Committee will States, Singapore and more recently, continue to monitor the risks faced by the Japan.
In all instances this attracts new Group in delivering its strategic objectives, regulation and exposes the Group to new in particular risks arising from the exposure regulatory regimes.
Consequently, the to new regulations or developments in Committee has been kept informed of the regulation and risks associated with new development of policies and procedures business initiatives arising from the continued to satisfy the respective regulations development of the Group.
and has challenged managements assessments of the adequacy of the I would be pleased to discuss the proposed policies and procedures.
Committees work with any shareholder.
The Committee will undertake geographic KevIn parrY reviews in the future to assess the Groups Chairman of the Risk Committee compliance with regulatory reporting 23 May 2014 Material risks the Group uses a risk scorecard as part of its risk framework that summarises the material risks faced by the Group, the tolerance of the Group to each respective risk, and key risk indicators that indicate, for each risk, the extent to which the tolerance is being approached or has been exceeded.
The Committee has overseen and challenged the Groups management of material risks by reference to the risk scorecard which has been presented to the Committee periodically during the year Material risks toward the end of the year the Committee has overseen a high level review of the material risks faced by the Group.
In recognition of the Groups transition toward an alternative asset manager, the Committee challenged whether the material risks faced by the Group remained wholly relevant.
This exercise, which is ongoing, has re-affirmed the majority of the prevailing material risks while highlighting the need to add or remove a small number of material risks 60 61
