ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 ouR ReSouRCeS AndReLAtionSHiPS our business model can only function because it is supported byseveral critical resources and relationships.
our resources and relationships our people manage our scalable then manage those assets to realise returns inFrastructure for investors.
Successful application of those Our people are our key resource and skills has supported the development of our Our infrastructure teams support the whole instrumental in the delivery of our strategic longstanding track record.
business, ensuring consistency and quality objectives.
It is through our people that over of service to our counterparties and fund the last 25 years we have generated a brand We value the local knowledge of our investors.
They have established, manage and track record making us a well known investment professionals.
We believe that and continue to develop systems and and highly respected fund manager in our this is crucial to maintain a strong flow of controls to support our investment activities core markets.
Evidence of the quality of our investment opportunities and to effectively and effectively report on the performance business has been recognised as we have manage our investments.
Our teams and activities of the Group and our funds.
received six awards during the last year.
speak the local languages, understand local laws and customs and have the Our employees have the market skills, The contribution of our people to the value of necessary depth of relationships required knowledge and relationships to support our business is demonstrated through our: tooperate successfully.
the business as we progress our strategic Investment management skills priorities, expanding both our product range our people distribute our products and our geographical coverage.
Distribution capabilities Our dedicated distribution team Scalable infrastructure our people manage our key is embedded within the business.
relationships Our relationships with third party fund our people manage the investment investors have strengthened since the Building and maintaining our key process team was established in 2011.
The team relationships is essential to both support The Group has a consistent investment has increased investor awareness of our the growth of the business and deliver our culture across its products.
We deliver a products, expanding our fund investor strategic objectives.
disciplined investment process, demonstrate network both geographically and by investor 1 grow assets under management core credit principles and are focused type.
This enhanced network promotes The Group is expanding and on capital preservation.
Our rigorous continuous engagement and supports the strengthening its relationships with risk analysis and engagement with our development of investment products which third party investors.
Our products offer portfolio management processes continue provide solutions to investors.
investors an opportunity to diversify their throughout the life of the investment, Our distribution team have replicated the portfolio and generate yield.
We are encompassing regular reviews, active local model established by the investment continuously engaged with our investors management of the investment and a business.
Their local market knowledge, to understand their current and future proactive approach to realisation.
supported with an understanding of what needs and to ensure that we have the Our investment professionals are specialists, the Group can offer, are giving us access to products to meet these requirements.
with the skills required to understand and new investors.
The availability of balance sheet capital assess the relevant risks and opportunities to co-invest and to support product for their product, to originate investments and development is underpinned by our relationships with our key finance strateGic report Governance Financial statements resOUrces aND relatiONships performance strategy and priorities business model marketplace year in review risks counterparties.
These include banks, performing well above financial services bondholders, other lenders and norms.
It also demonstrated clear progress rating agencies.
on the initiatives identified in the prior survey.
Our active compliance team works The Group considers that training and with the business and our regulators development are essential to attract and to both identify and manage regulatory retain people of the highest calibre and has risk and also to promote best practice always invested significantly in this.
We are within the marketing, investment and committing to enhancing the knowledge and infrastructure teams.
The profile of this skills of our people and nurturing their talent.
area is increasing as we expand our We run an extensive programme of internal product range.
and external training to develop and enhance core skills, increase technical competency 2 invest selectively and to develop future leaders.
Our investment professionals manage the relationships necessary to originate The ongoing development of our people is and source investment opportunities supported by our performance management for our funds.
This provides a regular forum include financial advisers, banks for employees and managers to review and other investment managers.
performance against agreed objectives and Our reputation, built up over 25 years, to identify areas for further development.
has generated strong, supportive, asset Our people are offered access to a range sourcing networks.
of benefits designed to attract, develop and 3 manage portfolios to maximise value retain talented employees.
We ensure our We invest money across the capital levels of overall remuneration are market Top: Harpley tower Hamlets Pupil Referral structure of companies and property competitive.
Benefits include: pension unitpupils attend a ThinkForward workshop at the groups Londonoffice assets.
We seek to develop strong savings, healthcare and health screening, relationships both with owners and the life assurance, child care vouchers, travel Bottom: Pupils from oaklands School, bethnal management teams.
Our investment insurance, share save scheme, gym green being escorted around the Aldgate tower development in the City of London by iCg volunteers teams have local market knowledge membership and cycle to work schemes.
and access to the Groups extensive The Group supports flexible working, with sector and market experience to support 5.2% of employees benefitting from these those businesses.
Our employee initiated board meetings of originated corporate turnover is 7.5%.
investments both increases our knowledge of the business and diversity and values allows our investment professionals The permanent employee population of 189 to develop strong relationships with represents 24 different nationalities.
permanent employees 66 are women and 123 men.
We do not record the religion our responsibility to our people or ethnicity of employees.
The senior To successfully deliver our strategic priorities management team excluding the Groups the Group is focused on engaging with Board comprises two women and four men and motivating its employees.
The current and ICGs Board comprises eight individuals engagement of our people is demonstrated of which one is a woman.
by our staff retention rate of 90.5%.
We are committed to providing a safe and Effective two way communication with our healthy work environment for our people people is essential to build and maintain 500 where diversity is valued, where everyone is engagement.
We have a number of formal treated fairly and with dignity and respect, and informal channels to achieve this.
regardless of age, gender, race, sexual These include monthly whole business orientation, disability, religion or beliefs.
k briefings, an intranet and regular team and We do not tolerate discrimination of any manager meetings.
nature and comply fully with appropriate The Group conducts regular, confidential, human rights legislation.
We aim for employee surveys to identify the areas of the employees to have a sense of wellbeing business in need of further development, and we promote a working culture where 5 year commitment from and those areas that are performing well.
employees can freely question practices ICG to Impetus PEF The last survey was conducted in 2012 andsuggest alternatives.
ThinkForward programme and demonstrated that the Group was 36 37 ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 our responsibility to dedicated coaches in schools where there ouR ReSouRCeS ourcommunity are young people who have been identified AndReLAtionSHiPS as at risk of becoming NEETs.
The coaches Our social and community policies and continued work with individuals to help them achieve practices are grounded in promoting their goals, providing support both at school opportunities to young people, through and at home.
In practice this means making a contribution through The Groups commitment has provided creating work experience opportunities funding to support a full time coach for the across the Group and supporting a charity Harpley Tower Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit.
ThinkForward which helps young people The coach works with young people to make the often difficult transition from support them to maximise their opportunities education to the workplace.
In addition, while in full time education and to improve employees are encouraged to donate time to their chances of a successful transition activities supporting ThinkForward or have the into long term employment.
ICG is the first opportunity to receive matched contributions company to make such a commitment to for their fundraising efforts for other charities.
a Pupil Referral Unit and is very proud of its association.
The Group runs an internship programme which offers a number of placements for young For more information about Impetus-PEF graduates who have achieved academically please visit: http: impetus-pef.
uk but are not readily able to access opportunities For more information about ThinkForward in the financial sector.
The fully funded please visit: http: think-forward.
uk internship offers the opportunity to rotate through ICGs key business areas, building For more information about Tower a strong understanding of our business Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit please visit: model with the opportunities to specialise in www.
The internship programme is expected to provide that difficult first step on our responsibility to our the career ladder.
The programme is now in environment its second year, 100% of its first cohort having ICG recognises that businesses have a successfully secured a permanent job in their responsibility to protect the environment and chosen field.
understand the impact their operations have, The Group has made a five year, 500k and we take appropriate measures to limit commitment to Impetus-PEFs ThinkForward our energy use and carbon output.
ThinkForward was set up by The Group is required to state the annual the Private Equity Foundation now merged quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon with Impetus to form Impetus-PEF in 2010 dioxide equivalent from activities for which the to dramatically reduce the risk of young Group is responsible.
The Groups carbon people becoming NEETs not in education, emissions result predominantly from business employment or training.
Using Defra DECCs GHG conversion Impetus-PEF, 15% of young people are failing factors for company reporting, emissions for to make a successful move from education the year to 31 March 2014 were 4,438 tonnes into employment.
The charity places of CO. 2 Operational scope Greenhouse gas emission source 2014 Units Direct emissions Scope 1 On-site air conditioning refrigerant loss 14 Tonnes CO e 2 Indirect emissions Scope 2 Purchased electricity heat 870 Tonnes CO e 2 Indirect emissions Scope 3 Business travel: flights and rail 3,554 Tonnes CO e 2 total 4,438 Tonnes CO2e Emissions per FTE 20.6 Tonnes CO e perFTE 2 We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated financial statements.
