ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 AUDIT COMMITTee RepORT Dear shareholder The report sets out in detail the significant issues considered during the year.
From my During the year we have focused on perspective the most important issues were: the complexity of regulation, particularly concerning audit rotation and tendering, Valuation of the portfolio and assessment and the communication of this Committees of impairments the valuation of unquoted work to you.
The changes have, in illiquid assets and any impairment requires part, broadened the Committees work considerable professional judgement.
and, in part, formalised pre-existing Consequently, the Committee undertakes review procedures.
a comprehensive review at each balance sheet date challenging managements I have remained conscious of the need to KevIn parrY assessments based on established Chairman of the Audit Committee ensure that contemporary developments do processes and a judgemental sample of not detract from our established focus on direct file reviews judgemental areas of accounting and the quality of the control environment.
Tax provisioning the Group has some historical employee related tax issues The Board established a separate Risk that were put in place when businesses Committee at the end of the 2013 financial undertook more aggressive tax planning year.
The taking and control of risk is a than your Directors would contemplate fundamental aspect of operating in the today.
In order to avoid conflicts of interest, financial sector.
Good auditing requires a the Chairmen of the Remuneration and sound understanding of the Groups risks, Audit Committees constituted an ad our appetite for risk taking and mitigations hoc team overseeing communications to limit downsides.
Consequently, during with HM Revenue and Customs, the course of the current year, the Audit and current and former employees.
Committee has worked closely with the Professional advice and opinions were Risk Committee and the Remuneration provided by internal and external tax Committee with the aim of effectively lawyers and tax accountants as well as covering pertinent topics in one or by HMRC.
The accounting treatment has other forum.
been carefully considered in the light of The following pages set out the Audit remaining uncertainties, also drawing on Committee report for financial year 2014. the advice of experts.
See note 11 to the The report is structured into four parts: financial statements 1.
Committee governance: roles Security of data and the procedural and responsibilities, composition formalities of the IT department and effectiveness we reviewed our expectations of IT capabilities and the need for security 2. Review of the year: the significant and continuity of service in light of the financial reporting and auditing issues growth of the Group and the prevalence we addressed of cybercrime.
Internal controls: the assessment of the the law emphasise data security and adequacy of the control framework integrity.
Based on a comprehensive review by specialist consultants, we were 4.
External auditors: ensuring their advised that the IT function would benefit independence, effectiveness and from additional resource and a wider objectivity: and their appointment international perspective to provide greater likelihood of the continuity and security of service.
The resource has been recruited
