strateGic report Governance Financial statements Relationship with the external auditors and Kim Wahl.
Full details of their attendance CoMMIttee GovernanCe it is fundamental that our auditors are at Committee meetings can be found in the On behalf of the Board, the Committee independent of management and provide Corporate Governance section on page 51. encourages and seeks to safeguard high robust challenge to the financial reporting Biographical details can be found on pages standards of integrity and conduct in financial and disclosures.
Based on our enquiries, 48 and 49. reporting and internal control.
we are satisfied that Deloitte LLP and The Committee members have a wide the incumbent audit partner are effective roLe anD responsIBILItIes range of business and financial experience, and that they have robust processes including risk management, fund The Committee meets regularly, at least four for maintaining their objectivity and management and investment, regulation times a year, and is responsible for: independence in accordance with our and and compliance, M&A, tax and international their procedures.
We have commenced Selecting and recommending the business practices.
These skills enable the planning for future audit partner and appointment and reappointment of the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference firm rotation external auditor, approving their terms of in a robust and independent manner.
reference and fees Requirement for an internal audit function Kevin Parry, a Chartered Accountant, the Committee have continued to was recently the Chief Financial Officer Reviewing the performance of the external monitor the need for an independent at Schroders plc and was previously a auditor and ensuring the rotation of audit internal audit function.
During the year managing partner at KPMG.
The Board partner to an individual with relevant we continued our practice of undertaking considers that he has recent and relevant experience and skills ad hoc internal audits using part-time financial experience for the purposes of Reviewing the independence of the resource but have now concluded that the Code.
external auditor and the relationship there needs to be either a properly The Managing Directors and Chairman of the between audit and non audit work outsourced or a dedicated internal auditor Board are not members of the Committee performed by the external auditor operating to a structured programme but regularly attend meetings at the invitation Reviewing the annual and interim In the year ahead the Committee will of the Chairman of the Committee, together accounts before they are presented continue to monitor new developments in with Deloitte LLP, the Companys auditor.
to the Board, in particular addressing regulation, particularly as they impact audit The Committee meets the external auditors any significant issues arising from the tendering, and to consider the audit risks without the management present twice a audit: accounting policies and clarity of associated with new business initiatives year to ensure that they are receiving full disclosures: compliance with applicable arising from the continued development cooperation from management, obtaining accounting and legal standards: and ofthe Group.
all the information they require and are issues regarding a significant element I would be pleased to discuss the able to raise matters directly with the Audit of judgement Committees work with any shareholder.
Committee if they consider it is desirable to Reviewing the provisioning policy for the do so.
investment portfolio on a six monthly basis KevIn parrY Chairman of the Audit Committee effeCtIveness Monitoring the integrity of the financial 23 May 2014 statements of the Group, including its The Committee reviews its terms of annual and half yearly reports, interim reference and effectiveness annually.
management statements and any The 2014 review adopted a more other formal announcement relating comprehensive questionnaire than previously to its financial performance, reviewing and was completed by all Audit Committee significant financial reporting issues and members and regular Group attendees.
judgements which they contain The review included best practice questions.
The results confirmed that the Committee The Committee has fulfilled its responsibilities continues to operate effectively, fulfils its during the year.
terms of reference and receives reliable and trustworthy information from management CoMposItIon and auditors.
Based on the results of the The Committee consists of independent review the Audit Committee members would Non Executive Directors only.
The current like more training on market developments members are Kevin Parry Chairman of the and this will, in future, be undertaken with the Committee, Peter Gibbs, Lindsey McMurray Risk Committee.
