ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 BoarD CoMMIttees In July 2013, the Committee reviewed and CORpORATe GOveRNANCe updated their policy on the background The Board is supported in its decisions by continued and diversity of Board members.
The policy five principal Committees.
The reports of provides that, prior to any appointment to the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee the Board, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee can be considers the balance of skills, experience, found at pages 54, 60 and 62 respectively, independence and knowledge appropriate to while details of the other two Committees determine the requirements and necessary are below.
In considering The Terms of Reference of each of the candidates, appointments should be made Board Committees, together with the relative to a number of different criteria, Directors service agreements, the terms and including diversity of gender, background conditions of appointment of Non Executive and personal attributes, alongside the Directors and Directors deeds of indemnity, appropriate skill set, experience and Our Committees are available for inspection at the Companys expertise, and the Committee will seek registered office during normal business to ensure that long lists and short lists of supplement Board hours.
Each Committee has access to possible appointments to the Board reflect proceedings and allow such external advice as it may consider that position.
The Committee will always appropriate.
The Company Secretary acts seek to appoint the candidate with the most for more detailed as Secretary of the Nominations Committee: appropriate skills and experience regardless scrutiny of key issues.
the Groups Head of Human Resources of their background, gender, race, marital acts as Secretary to the Remuneration status, age, disability, religious belief or Committee: the Groups Financial Controller sexual orientation.
The Committee and the acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee: Board are committed to diversity both at and the Groups Compliance Officer acts Board level and throughout the organisation.
as Secretary to the Risk Committee.
The Committee is aware of the Each Committees Secretary serves at the recommendations of the Davis Report on invitation of the Chairman of that Committee.
gender diversity at Board level.
While it The Terms of Reference of each Committee remains supportive of increased gender are considered regularly by the respective diversity at Board level, it may not always Committee and referred to the Board be in the best interest of shareholders for approval.
to prioritise this above other factors.
The Committee will consider the Davis noMInatIons CoMMIttee Reports recommendations, along with all The Nominations Committee consists of five other appropriate factors, when making Non Executive Directors, these being Justin future recommendations to the Board.
Dowley Chairman of the Committee, Kevin Parry, Peter Gibbs, Lindsey McMurray and exeCUtIve CoMMIttee Kim Wahl.
The Executive Committee consists of the three Managing Directors of ICG, The Committee is responsible for each of whom has a specific area of considering the composition of the responsibility.
The Executive Committee Board to ensure that the balance of its has general responsibility for ICGs membership between Managing Directors resources, determining strategy, financial and Non Executive Directors is appropriate.
and operational control and managing the Appointments of Managing Directors and business worldwide.
Christophe Evain is Non Executive Directors are made as Chief Executive Officer and in addition to his necessary as a result of discussions by the strategic and operational remit he oversees Committee and are subject to full Board the Groups Investment Committees in his approval and election or re-election at a role as the Chief Investment Officer.
He is general meeting of the shareholders.
also responsible for the Groups credit funds Prior to any appointment to the Board, the business.
Philip Keller is Chief Financial Nominations Committee considers the Officer and is responsible for finance balance of skills, experience, independence and infrastructure.
Benot Durteste has and knowledge appropriate to determine responsibility for the European mezzanine the requirements and necessary capabilities and minority equity business of ICG.
In addition, any new Director normally meets all existing Directors prior to appointment.
