ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 AUDIT COMMITTee RepORT continued the IssUe anD Its sIGnIfICanCe WorK UnDertaKen CoMMents anD ConCLUsIon aUDItInG ContInUeD The audit is conducted to an ICG has volatile profitability due to capital gains The audit materiality was set at 10% of profit appropriate level of materiality to and losses and impairments.
We determined in before capital gains and losses equivalent ensure that there is strong comfort conjunction with Deloitte that it is appropriate to base to 12m 2013: 16m.
This is equivalent that the financial statements are materiality on 10% profit before capital gains and to 7.6% 2013: 11.2% of pre-tax profits.
losses and impairments and that individual capital The Committee considered this provides gains and losses should be audited in their entirety.
appropriate comfort as to the quantification of the robustness of Deloittes audit opinion.
The FY14 profit is overstated by 0.4m as a result of prior year audit differences.
The Committee has deemed this amount immaterial.
We received a memorandum on the audit findings We were satisfied with the outputs The audit is properly conducted and discussed its content with Deloitte in the ofthe audit and have tasked financial in practice.
This ensures that the Committee with and without management being management with implementing the audit findings are discussed with present.
The audit did not result in any changes to recommended enhancements to the the Committee.
A number of disclosures were control environment.
enhanced on the recommendation of the auditors to provide clarity.
A number of useful control enhancements around formalising and documenting our existing practices for loans and receivables were recommended.
In addition to the significant matters addressed above, the Committee maintained a rolling agenda of items for its review including financial crime, whistleblowing and the finance functions capabilities.
No issues of significance arose.
the context of the Groups complexity, the In the light of the benefit attained from the InternaL ControLs norm for the financial sector and regulatory IT report and the increasing size of the Risk management and internal control expectations and standards.
Group, the Audit Committee has determined matters are the responsibility of the Groups that it is necessary to have either a properly Risk Committee.
Its report is set out on For example, in 2014 there was a review planned outsourced Internal Audit function pages 60 and 61. of the IT function.
This was commissioned or an internal auditor who is an employee.
from a consultancy with deep IT expertise.
The Group has an established control Further there should be a two year audit It raised a number of important issues framework as described on page 28. programme of work that has a rolling agenda highlighting limitations of the current The framework is designed to manage but with time for flexibility to address any issues arrangements.
Issues raised around data not eliminate risks and is designed to provide that emerge.
The marginal direct cost is security and disaster recovery planning were reasonable but not absolute assurance estimated to be 0.2m.
promptly addressed where possible and against material losses or misstatements.
extra skilled staff were engaged in respect The Audit Committee will oversee the The Group is expanding and this adds to of matters that would take time to resolve installation of the Internal Audit function in complexity and risk.
To date, there has and improve, typically requiring system the 2015 financial year and there will be a been no internal audit function but ad hoc enhancements or geographic relocation.
direct line of report to the Audit Committee reviews have either been outsourced or Chairman.
If the function is outsourced to conducted by other control functions such one or more providers, Deloitte which is as Compliance.
This has been a subject of our external auditor, will be precluded from regular review by the Audit Committee in the work.
