strateGic report Governance Financial statements The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance record of individual Directors.
BoarD anD CoMMIttee MeetInGs Audit Risk Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 6 5 4 4 2 Justin Dowley 6 4 3 4 2 Christophe Evain 6 3 4 4 N A Philip Keller 6 5 4 4 1 Benot Durteste 6 4 3 4 N A Peter Gibbs 6 5 4 4 2 Lindsey McMurray 6 4 3 4 2 Kevin Parry 6 5 4 4 2 Kim Wahl 5 5 3 4 2 Attended part or all of these meetings at the invitation of the relevant Chairman but was not a member of the relevant Committee.
BoarD perforManCe eLeCtIon anD re-eLeCtIon At each Board meeting there is a full financial ofDIreCtors and business review which includes the In line with the effective governance comparison of performance to date against the The Companys current Articles of requirements of the Code, the Board Boards previously approved annual budget.
Association provide that a Director appointed reviews its own performance annually.
by the Board shall retire at the Annual The assessment covers the functioning of Each Board member receives a General Meeting following his appointment the Board as a whole, the functioning of comprehensive Board pack at least and that at each Annual General Meeting of the Executive Committee, the evaluation of five days prior to each meeting which the Company one third of the Directors must individual Directors and includes a review of incorporates a formal agenda together with retire by rotation.
The Board has decided that the effectiveness of the Board Committees.
supporting papers for items to be discussed in accordance with the Code, each of the The Non Executive Directors, led by the at the meeting.
Further information is Directors will retire and stand for re-election Senior Independent Director, and taking into obtained by the Board from the Managing at each years Annual General Meeting.
account the views of Executive Directors, are Directors and other relevant members responsible for evaluating the performance of senior management, as the Board, In relation to the Directors who are standing of the Chairman.
The Board considers the particularly its Non Executive Directors, for re-election, the Chairman is satisfied that, results of the performance evaluation when considers appropriate.
following formal performance evaluation, making its recommendations regarding the each of the other Directors continues to be All Directors have access to the advice and re-election of Directors.
This exercise was effective and demonstrates commitment to services of the Company Secretary and may carried out in May 2014 and the feedback their role.
In the case of the Chairman, the take independent professional advice at the obtained was collated and presented Non Executive Directors are satisfied that he Companys expense in the furtherance of to the Board for a detailed discussion.
continues to be effective and demonstrates their duties.
The appointment or removal of The evaluation did not identify any significant commitment to his role.
the Company Secretary would be a matter areas for concern and the Board is satisfied for the Board.
with its performance and that of its members, ConfLICts of Interest and also the performance of its Committees.
The Board appreciates the importance of Directors have a statutory duty to avoid Certain points raised during this exercise will the continued professional development conflicts of interest with the Company.
be addressed at Board meetings during the of the Directors.
The focus in this area this The Companys Articles of Association forthcoming financial year.
year has been on informing the Board allow the Directors to authorise conflicts of about areas of expansion for the Group, In 2013, the Board also employed the interest and the Board has adopted a policy and consequently the Board has received services of an external independent third and effective procedures for managing detailed presentations from a number of party for these purposes.
This considered the and, where appropriate, approving potential business heads about their plans.
effectiveness and performance of the Board conflicts of interest.
in relation to: Board composition, expertise The Non Executive Directors, at least and dynamics: time management and Board annually, hold meetings in the absence of support: strategic oversight: risk management the Managing Directors and, separately, in and internal control: and succession planning the absence of the Chairman.
Each Non and human resource management.
The Executive Director has an appointment letter independent Board evaluation concluded with the Company and their appointments that the Board was effective inall areas.
