64 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT OVERVIEW Membership Our Audit and Risk Committee comprises three non-executive Our revised governance directors and is chaired by Nicholas Page, a Fellow of the Institute of and oversight structure Chartered Accountants in England was fully implemented and Wales, and who has relevant and recent experience for the in 2014. purposes of the Code.
Meetings related to risk are normally attended by all members of the Board.
The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the Chief Financial Officer together with the Head of Compliance and Risk are invited to attend all meetings.
Nicholas Page Periodically, senior management Chairman from across the Group are invited to present on specific aspects of the business.
The Committee also meets from time Committee members to time with the external auditor, Nicholas Page Chairman without an executive director or Tony Hales member of the Groups senior Richard Moat management being present, to discuss the external audit process.
The Head of Compliance and Risk reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee, which ensures his independence from the Achievements for 2014 2015 objectives management and operation of the Implementation and embedding Review effectiveness of new business.
of Operational Governance market entry and business Framework.
Committee responsibilities Introduction of Common Monitoring effectiveness of The objective of the Committee is to Minimum Risk Control Standards management of the oversee the Groups financial across all markets.
reporting, internal controls and risk management procedures together Continued training on areas of Continued development of the with the work performed by the business significance.
external auditor and internal audit Areas reviewed: Review organisational monitoring function.
The main responsibilities are information security: of the competitive environment.
as follows: business continuity: Review the risks presented by keep under review the T4G controls and monitoring: organisational changes effectiveness of the Groups system and stemming from the T4G of internal control, including PROXXI implementation.
operational and compliance controls and risk management: Review systems for the prevention and detection of fraud.
monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Review the approach to current Company and the formal and potential regulatory announcements relating to the changes.
Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Effective oversight Corporate Governance 65 provide advice to the Board on disclosures and presentation: and treatment of transactions is not whether the Annual Report and always certain and, therefore, whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a management is required to make Financial Statements are fair, whole, are fair, balanced and judgements, based on internal balanced and understandable.
understandable and provide the expertise and external advice, on information necessary for In carrying this out, the Committee the methodology to be adopted shareholders to assess the Groups considered the work and for providing for uncertain tax performance, business model and recommendations of management.
The external auditor strategy: In addition, the Committee received performed procedures to assess reports from the external auditor managements judgements and make recommendations to the setting out its view on the accounting reported its findings to the Board, for the Board to put to treatments and judgements Committee.
shareholders in general meeting, in underpinning the Financial relation to the appointment, Deferred tax accounting: The key Statements.
The significant re-appointment and removal of the judgement in respect of the judgements considered by the external auditor and to approve its Groups deferred tax assets, which Committee were: terms of appointment: arise largely from timing differences between the accounting and tax Impairment of receivables: The key review and monitor the objectivity treatments of revenue and area of judgement in respect of and independence of the external impairment transactions, is the impairment provisions made auditor and the effectiveness of extent to which the timing against customer receivables is the the external audit process, taking differences will reverse and a tax predictive accuracy of statistical into consideration relevant UK deduction will be obtained in models used to estimate future professional and regulatory future periods.
The external auditor customer default rates and requirements: performed procedures to assess expected future timing of cash review and approve the internal whether the recognition of the flows in respect of each portfolio.
At audit programme for the year and deferred tax asset is appropriate both the half year and full year monitor the effectiveness of the and reported its findings to the results the Committee considered internal audit function in the Committee.
a paper prepared by delivery of the plan: and management summarising the Regulation: The business is subject work performed to test the keep under review the Group Risk to regulatory scrutiny in multiple continued predictive capacity of Register and consider the most jurisdictions and at times it is these statistical models and to important risks facing the Group appropriate to make provision for update them where appropriate.
potentially adverse rulings by these The external auditor performed regulatory authorities.
The audit procedures on impairment Committee received a report from ACTIVITIES IN 2014 provisioning and reported its the Group Legal Director outlining findings to the Committee.
the various regulatory and other Additionally, at its meeting in Meetings similar issues and managements October, the Committee received The Committee met six times during approach.
External audit discussed and considered an independent the year: twice to consider risk, three the matter with the Group Legal opinion from the Companys times to consider audit-related Director, reviewed the external legal actuarial advisor in relation to matters and once to consider both advice and reported its findings to managements approach to using risk and audit-related matters.
this modelling technique for new, longer-term products.
Financial reporting Internal control and risk The Committee reviewed and management Revenue recognition: The considered the following areas in Whilst the Board is responsible for the judgement in respect of revenue respect of financial reporting and the Groups system of internal control, the recognition is the methodology preparation of the interim and review of its effectiveness is used to calculate the effective annual Financial Statements: delegated to the Committee.
The external auditor Committee, with the Board in performed procedures to assess the appropriateness of accounting attendance, reviews and approves managements calculations and policies used: the Group Risk Register.
The internal assumptions used to calculate the compliance with external and control environments in place to effective interest rate and reported internal financial reporting mitigate the impact of each risk are its findings to the Committee.
standards and policies: monitored by the Committee on a Provision for uncertain tax positions: regular basis, as are the principal significant judgements made by The Group operates in multiple actions being taken to improve these.
management: jurisdictions where the taxation 66 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued The Committee requests additional Internal audit Compliance and Risk, the Chairman presentations on key business areas The opinion on the Companys of the Audit and Risk Committee and as necessary to supplement their internal control environment was management, including the items understanding of control provided by the Head of Compliance shown in the Internal audit table environments in place.
PwC continued to be used below.
covered by these in 2014 are referred to support specific thematic reviews The Committee tracks the status of to in the Training section on page where specialist technical issues raised in control reports closely.
The internal controls in relation to knowledge was required.
During the year the volume and age the preparation of consolidated During 2014 a series of planned profile of outstanding control issues Financial Statements are outlined on internal audit reviews was has remained within our risk appetite.
page 61. undertaken in both field operations Following the comprehensive review The Committee is supported in this and head office environments.
These last year of our overall operational work by the Risk Advisory Group, were split between basic assurance governance and oversight structure, which comprises the Chairman, reviews, covering core controls across shown on page 57, the Internal Audit Chief Executive Officer, Chief the business as defined in the Group function has continued to monitor its Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Risk Register, and thematic reviews implementation and effectiveness Officer, Group Legal Director, Head of providing a deeper review of topics throughout 2014.
Compliance and Risk, together with agreed between the Head of other members of the senior Internal audit leadership team.
The Risk Advisory Basic assurance Thematic reviews Group meets four times a year.
It Branch level reviews Group reports to the Audit and Risk covering one-third of branches Review of the alignment and Committee and considers the risk Management of administration, planning of field performance assessments and risk registers operational, financial and loss reward structures.
produced in each country, and prevention control and legal Review of competition monitoring updates the Group Risk Register.
also considers areas of specific risk Review of the maturity of control and particular issues.
Head office reviews processes within the new markets Oversight of branch performance It is recognised that any system can Lithuania and Bulgaria.
provide only reasonable and not Review of the management of Management of financial loss absolute assurance against material credit strategies and their interdetection and prevention controls.
Management of financial control The Committee provides oversight framework.
T4G programme and direction over the internal audit Management of the branch Transformation programme plan to ensure the plan provides it administration and quality control governance and assurance with independent assurance over the processes.
integrity of internal controls and the The existence and effectiveness of Alignment of the transformation operational governance framework.
the controls used to monitor and programme initiatives to the target In addition, our external auditor manage each of the Group key operating model.
communicated to the Committee risks see pages 49 to 53. any control deficiencies in the internal control environment observed as part of its audit procedures.
During the year, Deloitte did not highlight any material control weaknesses.
Corporate Governance 67 External auditor effectiveness and practices are used to provide services Review of effectiveness of the independence where appropriate.
During the year, the internal controls The Committee considered the non-audit services carried out by On behalf of the Board, the external auditors assessment of the Deloitte were as follows.
Committee has reviewed the significant risks in the Groups effectiveness of the Groups Non-audit services carried Fee Financial Statements set out in its framework of internal controls, out by Deloitte in 2014 000 audit plan and approved the scope including financial, operational and Taxation compliance of the external audit that addressed compliance controls and risk services 117 these risks.
The Committee management systems during 2014.
Other assurance services 28 considered these risks and the The process for identifying, evaluating Total 145 associated work undertaken by the and managing the significant risks external auditor when forming its faced by the Group was in place judgement on the Financial throughout 2014 and up to 25 Audit tendering Statements.
In addition, the The Companys policy is to undertake Committee, where appropriate, a formal tendering exercise of the The Committee monitored the ensures that necessary actions have audit contract at least once every effectiveness and conduct of the been or are being taken to remedy ten years.
The last tender exercise external audit by reviewing: significant failings or weaknesses was carried out in March 2011 and identified from the review of the experience and capabilities of the resulted in the appointment of effectiveness of internal control.
auditor and the calibre of the audit Deloitte in May of that year.
Deloitte firm: has now been external auditor for The Committee has also undertaken almost four years.
At its February 2015 the delivery of its audit work in a review of its own effectiveness meeting, the Committee accordance with the agreed plan: amongst its members, executive recommended the reappointment of and directors, management and external Deloitte to the Board and its advisers: and concluded as a result the quality of its report and reappointment will be put to that it continues to be effective.
communications to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Annual Report and Financial Training In order to confirm its independence, Statements The Committee undertook a the external auditor issued a formal The Committee reviewed and significant amount of training during statement of independence to the considered the Annual Report and 2014.
This included presentations on Committee.
In addition, the Financial Statements in line with key business areas such as: Committee ensured compliance with other information the Committee has the Groups policy on the use of the considered throughout the course of personal safety and the Group external auditor for non-audit work.
It concluded and approach to obtaining and The key requirements of this policy recommended to the Board that the maintaining ISO compliance: are: Annual Report and Financial financial fraud and the approach Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, the external auditor may not to the continued improvement in balanced and understandable and undertake certain prohibited prevention and detection provide the information necessary for services including internal audit, capabilities with particular note to shareholders to assess the Groups information technology, how this is being addressed under performance, business model and remuneration, recruitment, the transformation programme : strategy.
valuation or general management legal and regulatory risk and the consultancy: approach to managing the the Head of Compliance and Risk specific issues faced by the Group: must approve all non-audit taxation and the Group approach services: and to ensuring continued compliance the Committee Chairman must with relevant legislation: and Nicholas Page approve any individual non-audit information security and the Chairman service over a specific fee level.
approach to addressing the ever The Committee believes that the increasing cyber-security risk.
Group receives a particular benefit This training was complemented by a from certain non-audit services where visit to the Companys business in a detailed knowledge of its operations Poland, which included visits to are important or where the auditor has branches and discussions with the very specific skills and experience.
