56 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Our entry into Spain is again indicative of our approach to good governance.
Following extensive research, the Board announced in July 2014 its decision to establish an operation in Spain.
A multi-national We are driving our team was mobilised to set up the business forward using operation in Madrid.
This drew on the best expertise from around the the principles of good Group.
As a result, the team is governance that are building a business based from the already rooted deeply outset on our established standards of good governance and Groupwithin our existing wide best practice.
I hope that the insights I have given illustrate that, despite a challenging external environment and a Christopher Rodrigues significant programme of change Chairman and expansion, we are driving our business forward using the principles of good governance that are already rooted deeply within our existing business.
These are explained more Dear Shareholder, customers the excellent service they fully in the report which follows and expect from an international, Good governance is never more form a firm foundation for our future.
important than during a time of change.
Not only is it needed to Solid decision-making processes and ensure that oversight is properly careful oversight have been a core exercised within our existing core part of our existing operations for business, it is an essential premany years.
They are at the heart of requisite to underpin the sound our new initiatives too.
Taking existing decision-making needed to drive experience and embedding it into Christopher Rodrigues forward our new business initiatives our new projects from the outset Chairman and transformational change.
simply reflects and builds on the way we operate.
This is particularly true when these activities are taking place against a Take our T4G programme as an backdrop of increased competition example.
This is without doubt our and regulatory scrutiny.
In 2014, largest and most complex change competition in markets such as initiative to date.
It permeates all Poland and the Czech Republic aspects of the organisation.
increased, regulatory oversight Recognising the importance and across Europe intensified and at the complexity of the programme, the same time the pace of change Board set up a new sub-committee in within our organisation accelerated.
2014 to provide the appropriate level During the year we announced our of support and oversight.
Chaired by entry into the Spanish market and Cathryn Riley, the Committee reports the introduction of our digital directly to the Board giving it the level proposition, hapiloans, in Poland.
Our of assurance it requires, and bringing T4G programme gained significant to the T4G programme a wealth of momentum and, in February 2015, experience to help it deliver benefits we completed the acquisition of in both the short and long term.
An MCB Finance, a business in the insight into the programme can be digital lending sphere, to drive found on page 30 and I would forward the expansion of our recommend that you take a look at footprint both geographically and this.
At the same time we continued to manage and grow our existing business and deliver to our Chairmans introduction Corporate Governance 57 OUR GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT STRUCTURE Board Transformation Audit and Risk Disclosure Executive Nomination Remuneration for Growth Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsible for setting and communicating the strategy and ensuring the financial plan supports this strategy Responsible for ensuring the governance, risk and Risk Advisory control framework is adequate to respond Group appropriately to key internal and external risk factors.
Transformation Country Finance Reputation and Group Loss Steering Management Group Credit Leadership Regulation Prevention Group Product Team and Committee Team Committee Committee Development Performance Calls Committee Financial Transformation Risk Control and Credit Regulation Strategy Management Reporting Implementation CEO CFO CEO CFO CCO Treasury and Information Operational Reputation Loss Prevention Funding Technology CFO CEO CEO CCO CEO Group Governance Committee Key Risk Area Executive Risk Owner
