62 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT of having at least two female directors on the Board by the end of 2014.
However, as Edyta Kurek left the Board in early 2015, this number has New members joining reduced.
The Board intends to meet its diversity commitments in 2015. the Board in 2014 brought a wealth of ACTIVITIES IN 2014 experience to support the Group as it moves Meetings The Committee met four times during forward with its growth the year.
Board appointments In January 2014, having carried out a recruitment process in conjunction Christopher Rodrigues with MWM Consulting, the Chairman Committee recommended the appointment of Cathryn Riley to the Board as a non-executive director.
Cathryn then joined the Board in February, following on from Adrian Committee members reviewing the size, structure and Gardner taking up his position as composition of the Board: and Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Chief Financial Officer in January.
These new members joining the Tony Hales succession planning.
Board in 2014 brought a wealth of Edyta Kurek until 16 January 2015 experience to support the Group as Composition Dan OConnor from 28 January 2015 it moves forward with its growth and The Committee must have at least Nicholas Page transformation programmes.
three members, the majority being Gerard Ryan independent non-executive directors.
A sub-committee of the Nomination Members can also include the Committee, led by the Senior Chairman and the Chief Executive Independent Director, was also Achievements for 2014 Officer.
Three members form a formed in 2014 to oversee the Three new directors were quorum.
recruited to the Board, Russell Reynolds were appointed to broadening its expertise.
Boardroom diversity assist and this resulted in the Succession planning for a new The Board diversity policy was appointment of Dan OConnor on 2 Chairman completed.
January 2015 as non-executive director and Chairman-elect.
In reviewing Board composition, the 2015 objectives Christopher Rodrigues did not Committee considers the benefits of Search for new non-executive participate in the selection and all aspects of diversity, including directors to be undertaken.
differences in skills, regional and industry experience, race and Board diversity commitments to MWM Consulting and Russell gender.
Currently the Company be achieved once again.
Reynolds have no other connection considers candidates as nonwith the Company.
executives from a wide pool OVERVIEW including those with little or no listed Board composition and succession company board experience and The Committee keeps under review reviews long lists of candidates, 50% Role the size, structure and composition of of which it aims to ensure are The Committees responsibilities the Board.
As can be seen from the women.
include: chart on page 63, 44 per cent of the directors have been in place for six The Company only engages assisting the Board in selecting years or more.
Whilst this brings a executive search firms who have and appointing any new director wealth of experience, thoughts signed up to the voluntary Code of and recommending their inevitably turn to the introduction of Conduct on gender diversity and appointment to the Board: new non-executive directors in the best practice.
As a result, the Committee Board members 22% were women.
considered Board-level succession The Committee therefore met its aim Shaping the Board Corporate Governance 63 planning throughout the year.
Role Tenure of directors Further activities specifications and profiles were The tenure of all current directors is At the beginning of 2014, the agreed.
Potential search consultants shown below.
Committee also reviewed and were discussed to undertake a approved Board and Committee Tenure of current directors preliminary search for suitable meeting attendance for 2013 for non-executive director candidates, inclusion in the 2013 Annual Report including now a replacement for and Financial Statements.
Attendance in 2014 is shown below.
3 4 Election and re-election of directors Directors are appointed to the Board following a robust selection process and on the Committees 1 recommendation.
The performance 1 of each Director is assessed on an 6 years and over annual basis as part of the Board 3 to 5 years evaluation process.
In addition, a review of the independence of each 2 to 3 years non-executive director is undertaken Less than 2 years and consideration given to the attendance of each director at Board and Committee meetings.
Based on these reviews the Board recommends the re-election of all directors who are standing for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and Board Committees Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Transformation 1 Director Board Committee Committee Committee for Growth 2 Christopher Rodrigues 11 out of 11 3 out of 4 5 out of 5 David Broadbent 11 out of 11 5 out of 5 3 Adrian Gardner 11 out of 11 4 Tony Hales 10 out of 11 6 out of 6 4 out of 4 3 out of 3 5 Edyta Kurek 10 out of 11 3 out of 4 3 out of 5 Richard Moat 11 out of 11 6 out of 6 3 out of 3 5 out of 5 6 Nicholas Page 9 out of 11 6 out of 6 4 out of 4 3 out of 3 7 Cathryn Riley 10 out of 10 2 out of 2 5 out of 5 Gerard Ryan 11 out of 11 4 out of 4 1 The Transformation for Growth Committee was created on 26 May 2014.
2 Christopher Rodrigues did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting as this related to the search for his successor.
3 Adrian Gardner joined the Board on 2 January 2014.
4 T ony Hales missed one ad hoc Board meeting March as he was on holiday and unable to dial in.
He had, however, expressed support for the proposals under discussion by email in advance.
5 Edyt a Kurek missed one Board meeting October due to a conflicting business appointment: one Nomination Committee meeting February due to travel complications: and two Transformation for Growth Committee meetings: due to her flight from Poland being cancelled June : and due to other business commitments December.
Edyta Kurek stepped down from the Board on 16 January 2015 following a change in her role and new responsibilities in her executive capacity at Herbalife.
6 Nicholas Page was unable to dial in to two ad hoc Board meetings March and November.
7 Cathryn Riley joined the Board on 12 February 2014 and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 20 February 2014.
Christopher Rodrigues See page 76 for more details on the membership and work of the Chairman Remuneration Committee
