Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board of Directors is committed to high standards of regular intervals subject to continued satisfactory performance.
In corporate governance and has put in place a framework for accordance with the Companys articles of incorporation, at least corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an one third of the Independent Directors and Mr Frost treated for investment company.
the purposes of the AIC Code as a non-independent director will retire at each Annual General Meeting Principle 3 AIC Code.
The Company considers that putting forward all independent Compliance with Corporate Governance Codes directors for re-election more frequently would not be in the best All companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock interests of shareholders, given the long-term nature of the Exchange are required to confirm their compliance with or Companys assets that benefit from a consistent approach across explain departures from the UK Corporate Governance Code UK years both in terms of management and independent Board Code.
This requirement applies regardless of where the company supervision.
As such the Company takes the view that the benefits to The Company is a member of the Association of Investment shareholders arising from the Directors long-term knowledge and Companies the AIC.
The UK Code acknowledges that the AIC experience of these underlying assets and their management Corporate Governance Code AIC Code can assist externally including their ongoing ability to review the performance of the managed companies in meeting their obligations under the UK Investment Adviser and other advisors outweighs the benefit of Code in areas that are of specific relevance to investment more frequent re-election being applied to all directors.
However, as detailed in the Board Tenure and Re-election The Guernsey Financial Services Commission has also confirmed section below as Mr Dorey will have been a director for over nine that companies that report against the UK Code or AIC Code are years from August 2015, the Board determined that it would be deemed to meet the Guernsey Code of Corporate Governance.
appropriate that he offer himself for re-election on an annual basis.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment Companies www.
The UK Code is available from the Other directors seeking re-election this year are detailed in the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Company has complied throughout the year with all the provisions of the AIC Code and as such also meets the 3.
Nomination of candidates to join the Board requirements of the UK Code except to the extent highlighted As noted in the sections that follow, the Board formed a below.
In particular the Company notes the following departures Nomination and Remuneration Committee in September 2014 from the code for part or all of the year for the reasons as set which, among other things, considers the appointment of out below: candidates to the Board.
The role of the chief executive and executive Prior to the establishment of this Committee, nomination of directors remuneration candidates to join the Board was considered by the full Board.
This approach was in compliance with Principle 9 of the AIC Code, As an investment company, most of the Companys day to day recommending that the independent directors take the lead in the responsibilities are delegated to third parties.
The Company does appointment of new directors.
Following the establishment of the not have any executive directors.
The UK Codes two separate Committee the Company now also meets the requirement of the principles of setting out the responsibilities of the chief executive and disclosing the remuneration of executive directors Section 12 UK Code Section 12 B.
2 of the UK Code are therefore not applicable.
Re-election of all Directors The Board notes the AIC Code and UK Code suggest it would be good practice for all Directors to be offered for re-election at The table below details all Directors of the Company at the date of this report.
Name Position Independent Date Appointed under Code 1 Rupert Dorey Non-Executive Chairman Chairman of the Nomination and Yes 2 August 2006 Remuneration and Investment Committees Giles Frost Non-Executive Director No 2 August 2006 1 John Whittle Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director and Yes 6 August 2009 Chairman Audit and Risk Committee 1 Claire Whittet Non-Executive Director Chairman - Management Engagement Yes 10 September 2012 Committee 1 John Stares Non-Executive Director Chairman Risk Sub-Committee Yes 28 August 2013 1 All of the independent Directors are members of all committees.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board of Directors The Board of Directors currently consists of five non-executive Taking this into account Mr Dorey, Mr Frost and Mr Whittle will all Directors, whose biographies, on pages 51-52, demonstrate a retire and stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
breadth of investment and business experience.
Board Diversity The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors and is chaired The Board is committed to maintaining the appropriate balance of by Mr Dorey who is responsible for leadership of the Board and skills, gender, knowledge and experience among its members to ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Mr Dorey met ensure strong leadership of the Company.
When appointing Board the independence criteria of the AIC Code and UK Code upon members, its priority will always be based on merit, but will be appointment and has continued to meet this condition influenced by the strong desire to maintain board diversity, throughout his term of service.
Mr Whittle was appointed as including gender.
The Board currently has one female director.
Senior Independent Director on 31 December 2013 and as such, is an alternative point of contact for shareholders and leads in All new Directors receive introductory support and education matters where it is not appropriate for the Chairman to do so.
about the infrastructure sector and the Company from the Investment Adviser on joining the Board and, in consultation with For the purposes of the AIC Code Mr Frost is treated as not being the Chairman all Directors are entitled to receive other relevant an independent director, due to his relationship with the ongoing training as necessary.
In accordance with the AIC Code all other non-executives are independent of the Companys Board Performance Evaluation Investment Adviser.
During the period, the Board engaged external consultants to conduct an external review of the companys corporate Board Tenure and Re-election governance processes.
This is in accordance with the UK Recognising the importance of the composition and function of Corporate Governance Code which states that evaluation of the the Board, a Nomination and Remuneration Committee was Board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at formally established in September 2014.
It is formally charged by least every three years.
the Board for considering the structure, size, remuneration and composition of the Board.
It also oversees the appointment or reThe evaluation process was facilitated by Trust Associates, an appointment of directors, taking into account the expertise of the independent consultant specialising in board advisory and candidates and their independence see page 43 for more detail corporate governance services with no other connections to the on the Committee.
Interviews were held with the Board, directors of the Investment Adviser, Company Secretary and the Companys Directors do not have service contracts.
Directors are appointed Corporate Brokers.
The review considered a wide variety of areas under letters of appointment, copies of which are available at the including: overall strategy: supervision of investment activities: registered office of the Company.
The Board considers its risk management, shareholder accountability: board composition composition and succession planning on an ongoing basis.
and process: committee structure: composition and effectiveness: overall governance: support and relationship with suppliers: and In accordance with the UK Listing Authority Rules, Mr Frost will performance of the Chairman.
retire and stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Only minor recommendations were made in the course of that In accordance with the AIC Code, when and if any director shall review of which over 90% had already been implemented prior to have been in office or on re-election would at the end of that delivery of their final report and those remaining have been term of office for more than nine years the Company will implemented subsequently.
For example, two new Board consider further whether there is a risk that such a director might committees were established during the period: the Nomination reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through such and Remuneration Committee and the Investment Committee.
While these functions had previously been undertaken by the independent Board members, the new committees will formalise Mr Dorey has been a Board member since August 2006 and In the processes around each of these areas and provide August 2015 will have been a Board member for over nine years.
shareholders with greater visibility of the process and decisions The Board is confident that Mr Dorey remains independent.
However, as a further measure it has been decided that he will now offer himself for re-election on an annual basis.
He also Directors Duties and Responsibilities intends to retire from the Board at the Companys 2018 Annual The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which General Meeting.
establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: One third of the remaining Directors retire by rotation at every Statutory obligations and public disclosure AGM and will therefore be subject to annual re-election by Approval of investment decisions shareholders.
Any Directors appointed to the Board since the Strategic matters and financial reporting previous AGM also retire and stand for re-election.
Board composition and accountability to shareholders Risk assessment and management, including reporting, Mr Whittle will make himself available for re-election at the 2015 compliance, monitoring, governance and control AGM on this basis.
Other matters having material effects on the Company INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 40 Corporate Governance Report continued These reserved powers of the Board have been adopted by the Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek Directors to demonstrate clearly the importance with which the independent professional advice on any matter that concerns Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis and the The Board monitors the Companys share price and NAV and Company has maintained appropriate cover throughout the regularly considers ways in which future share price performance period.
These may include implementing marketing and investor relations activities, appropriate management of The Board has established four committees consisting of the share price premium discount and the relative positioning and independent non-executive Directors.
The responsibilities of these performance of the Company to its competitors.
The Board is also Committees are described below.
Terms of reference for each responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for Committee have been approved by the Board and are available in taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud full on the Companys website.
No advice or services were provided by any external Board Remuneration persons in respect of its consideration of Directors remuneration.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is comprised only of independent directors.
Prior to the establishment of the All fees payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by Committee in September 2014, these matters were considered by the Directors on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities the independent directors alone.
borne by the Directors and be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of a quality required to run the Company The Committee considers matters relating to the Directors successfully.
The Chairman of the Board is paid a higher fee in remuneration, taking into account benchmark information and recognition of additional responsibilities, as is the Chairman of the based upon the amount of work performed by the Board Audit and Risk Committee.
The Chairman of the new Nomination INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 41 Corporate Governance Report continued and Remuneration and Investment Committees, respectively do Committees of the Board not receive additional fees for these roles.
The Nomination and Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee reviews Director remuneration The Audit and Risk Committee is comprised of the full Board with periodically, taking into account fees paid to directors of the exception of Mr Frost as the non-independent director.
Mr comparable companies, although such a review will not Whittle is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Mr necessarily result in any changes to the rates.
Stares has lead responsibility for Risk.
As a consequence, the Company Chairman is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, There are no long-term incentive schemes provided by the which the Board believes is appropriate as Mr Dorey brings Company and no performance fees, or bonuses paid to Directors.
significant independent expertise in investment trusts and finance Any changes to Directors remuneration are considered at the for the benefit of that Committee.
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The duties of the Audit and Risk Committee in discharging its During the year, serving Directors were paid the following responsibilities are outlined in the table overleaf.
The Audit and emoluments: Risk Committee is also responsible for monitoring the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process, with particular regard to 2014 2013 terms under which the auditor is appointed to perform non-audit Fees paid Fees paid services.
In advance of non-audit work being undertaken by the Director Companys Auditors, any potential threats to independence are 1 Keith Dorrian 26,122 56,750 identified and if they cannot be suitably dealt with an alternative 2 60,000 Rupert Dorey 46,750 audit firm would be engaged.
3 32,000 Giles Frost 32,000 4 50,000 In respect to its risk management function, the Audit and Risk John Whittle 36,125 Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Companys risk 37,500 Claire Whittet 36,125 management framework including in connection with the 5 37,500 John Stares 3,465 acquisition and disposal of assets, the valuation of assets and ensuring that the risk management function of the Investment 1 Mr Dorrian retired from the Board on 12 June 2014.
Adviser, Administrator and other third party service providers are 2 Mr Dorey became Chairman of the Board on 31 December 2013 for which he adequate and to seek assurance of the same.
2 The emoluments for Mr Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure Limited, a related company of the Companys Investment Adviser.
The Audit and Risk Committee, having reviewed the performance 4 Mr Whittle become Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 31 of the Auditor, has recommended to the Board that the Auditor December 2013 for which he receives a higher fee.
be proposed for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting of 5 Mr Stares joined the Board on 28 August 2013. the Company.
Directors Interests The Audit and Risk Committee spent time performing a more Directors, who held office at 31 December 2014, had the following detailed risk review of the Company during the period, focussed interests in the shares of the Company: on identification of new emerging risks that could affect the 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Company and the robustness of processes in place to mitigate Number of Number of those risks.
During this review, the Committee identified and Ordinary Ordinary discussed a number of emerging global risks, for example those 1 1 Director Shares Shares driven by technological advances such as Cybercrime and new 2 Keith Dorrian n a 51,467 industry risks as a result of increased external regulation.
Of 3 significance the committee considered it important to more Rupert Dorey 643,687 593,687 specifically raise with shareholders the new emerging risk of OECD Giles Frost 298,745 298,745 proposals to restrict the tax deductibility of interest payments.
2 John Whittle 40,256 38,393 More detail is provided within the Risk and Mitigation section of Claire Whittet - - this Annual Report.
The Audit and Risk Committee were satisfied 4 John Stares - - that the key risks that could impact the Company and its 1 All shares are beneficially held.
investments were effectively mitigated and were also in line with 2 Mr Dorrian retired from the Board on 12 June 2014.
Previously shares held the Companys peer group.
indirectly through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme.
3 Shares owned by Mr Doreys spouse.
4 Mr Stares joined the Board on 28 August 2013.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of the full There have been no changes to any of the above holdings Board, with the exception of Mr Frost, and is chaired by Ms between 31 December 2014 and the date of this report.
The duties of the Management Engagement Committee in discharging its responsibilities are outlined in the table above.
Mr Frost is also a Director of International Public Partnerships Lux 1 Sarl a wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking of the Company, The Management Engagement Committee carries out its review of and a director of a number of other companies in which the the Companys advisers through consideration of a number of Company directly or indirectly has an investment, although he objective and subjective criteria and through a review of the does not control or receive remuneration in relation to these terms and conditions of the advisors appointments with the aim entities.
of evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring value for money for the Companys shareholders.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 42 Corporate Governance Report continued The Management Engagement Committee formally reviewed the The table below lists directors attendance at Board and performance of Investment Adviser and other key service Committee meetings during the year, to the date of this report.
During the 2014 review, no material Audit and Management weaknesses were identified.
Overall the Committee confirmed its Quarterly Ad-hoc Risk Engagement satisfaction with the services and advice received.
The external Directors Board Board Committee Committee evaluation of the Board referred to above also considered the Max no.
4 6 5 1 effectiveness of the Boards relationship with the Companys R Dorey 4 5 5 1 advisers including the Investment Adviser and concluded 1 K Dorrian 1 3 - 1 positively on the these relationships.
2 G Frost 4 - - - J Whittle 4 6 5 1 Nomination and Remuneration Committee C Whittet 4 5 5 1 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is comprised of J Stares 4 6 5 1 the full Board with the exception of Mr Frost as the non- 1 Mr Dorrian retired from the Board on 12 June 2014. independent director, and will be chaired by Mr Stares.
As noted 2 Mr Frost is not a member of the Audit and Risk Committee or Management earlier the Committee was established in September 2014 to Engagement Committee.
Mr Frost does not attend Ad-hoc Board Meetings as formalise the arrangements that had previously existed to a director where recommendations from the Investment Adviser are under consider matters relating to Board appointments, structure and consideration.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee was established on 3 September 2014 and intends to hold its first meeting during The Committee intends to hold its first meeting during 2015.
The Investment Committee was also established on 3 September 2014 but no matters came forward that needed to be Investment Committee considered by the Committee during the period.
The Investment Committee is comprised of the full Board with the exception of Mr Frost as the non-independent director, and is chaired by Mr Dorey.
The Committee was established in Relationship with Administrator and Company September 2014 to formalise the arrangements that had Secretary previously existed to consider items relating to the acquisition and Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as disposal of investments by the Company.
Previously such Administrator and Company Secretary and is responsible to the decisions were taken by the full board excluding Mr Frost who is Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The not independent and therefore the Committee was not required Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the to meet during 2014.
Rules and Regulations of Guernsey Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, anti-money laundering regulations and The Committee will meet as necessary when new investment or observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this divestment opportunities are recommended by the Investment respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board and Committee Meeting Attendance that Board procedures are followed and that it adheres to The full Board meets at least four times per year and in addition applicable legislation, rules and regulations under Guernsey Law, there is regular contact between the Board, the Investment the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Adviser, the Administrator and the Company Secretary.
agenda and supporting papers are distributed in advance of quarterly Board and Committee meetings to allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at the Relationship with the Investment Adviser meetings.
The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
Under the Investment As part of its ongoing oversight of the Companys portfolio in June Advisory Agreement, Amber Fund Management Limited acts as 2014 the Board visited the Federal German Ministry of Education Investment Adviser to the Company to review and monitor and Research facility in Berlin.
It also met with the German-based investments and advise the Company in relation to strategic members of the Investment Advisers team together with the management of the investment portfolio.
Details of the construction partner on that project, BAM Deutschland.
In Investment Advisers relationship with the Company are provided conjunction with the Investment Adviser, the Board also took the within the Strategic Report.
opportunity to take a step back from its usual tasks to spend time considering the Companys broader strategic approach including In accordance with its normal practice the Board continues to hold its position within the markets and future areas of focus for discussions relating to the future strategy of the Company with growth.
the Investment Adviser and regular formal and informal discussions are held on this subject.
The Directors confirm that they believe that it is in shareholders best interests to continue the appointment of Amber Fund Management Limited AFML as the Companys Investment Adviser.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 43 Corporate Governance Report continued Individuals with material direct or indirect economic interests Making New Investments in the relevant assets will not participate in Buyside The Investment Committee, comprised only of independent directors of the Company, make investment decisions with Committee and Sellside Committee discussions regarding the relevant assets respect to new investments after reviewing recommendations made by the Companys Investment Adviser.
The Investment A requirement that the financial statements, policies and Adviser has a detailed set of procedures and approval processes in records of any such asset offered to the Company be relation to the recommendation of new investments to the Board.
compliant with the Companys accounting policies and procedures It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Investment Adviser.
It is likely that some of these investments will The acquisition of all assets, including those from any associate of have been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may the Investment Adviser is considered and approved in advance by the Investment Committee.
In considering any such acquisition, be acquired from other members of the Investment Advisers group.
Where that is the case the conflicts management process the Committee will, as it deems necessary, review and ask summarised below is followed.
questions of the Buyside Committee of the Investment Adviser and the Groups other advisers and the acquisition will be approved by the Committee on the basis of this advice.
The Managing Conflicts of Interest purpose of these procedures is to ensure that the terms upon The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with which any investment is acquired from a member of the Amber conflicts of interest that may arise on investments acquired from group is on an arms length basis.
the Investment Advisers group, and manage conduct in respect of any such acquisitions.
As previously mentioned, the Companys Risk Management and Internal Controls Board has a majority of independent members and a Chairman The Board is responsible for overall risk management with who is independent of the Investment Adviser.
Each Director is delegation provided to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of of risk management and internal control has been designed to interest prior to Board discussions.
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the materiality of relevant The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include when an risks and therefore the system of internal control cannot provide Amber entity is an existing investor in the target entity while an absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
associated company, AFML, acts on the buyside as Investment Adviser to the Company.
The IAA contains procedures with the The Company has in place a detailed risk management framework, intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such with a comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and updated assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the as necessary by the Board and Audit and Risk Committee on a vendors: and on the buyside the Company as Investment Adviser quarterly basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the risks must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the terms for and facing the Company and controls and other measures in place to the price of, the acquisition.
mitigate the impact of risks.
Key features of these procedures include: There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and The creation of separate committees representing the managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
The process interests of the vendors on the one hand the Sellside has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of Committee and the Company on the other the Buyside approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
Committee, to ensure arms length recommendation and approval processes.
The membership of each committee is restricted in such a way as to ensure its independence and to minimise conflicts of interest arising A requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct and report to the Company on an independent due diligence process on the assets proposed to be acquired prior to making an offer A requirement for any offer made for the assets to be supported by advice on the fair market value for the transaction from an independent expert The establishment of information barriers between the Buyside and Sellside Committees to ensure information is kept confidential to one or the other side The provision of a release letter to each employee of the relevant associate of the Investment Adviser who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall be treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee to the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion necessary for him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside Committee or Sellside Committee INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 44 Corporate Governance Report continued Risk management process Action plans to mitigate risk The Companys risk management process as overseen by the Where new risks are identified or existing risks increase in terms of likelihood or impact, the Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board can be summarised as: Company in developing an action plan to mitigate the risk and put in place enhanced monitoring and reporting.
Re-assessment and reporting of risk Such risk mitigation plans are reassessed by the Audit and Risk Committee, where applicable with the relevant key service providers and reported to Board on a quarterly basis.
Risk framework and systems of internal control The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively monitoring the financial and non-financial risks facing the business.
Whilst responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the management of risk is embedded as part of the The direct communication between the Company and its everyday business and culture of the Company and its principal Investment Adviser and the entity level asset manager is regarded advisers.
as a key element in the effective management of risk and performance at the underlying investment level.
The Company The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function benefits from a strong alignment of risk and management but because of the internal controls systems in place at the key performance approach at the Company and underlying service providers, and the independent controls process reviews investment levels through the provision of services from a performed it has decided instead to place reliance on those vertically integrated Investment Adviser and investment level control and assurance processes.
The overall risk governance framework is the responsibility of the The risk framework is applied holistically across the Company and Board, overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee with input from the underlying investment portfolio through vertically integrated the Management Engagement Committee.
It is implemented service support as illustrated in the Operating Model diagram on through three risk control levels.
Risk identification Relations with Shareholders The Board and Audit and Risk Committee identify risks with input The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great from the Companys Investment Adviser and Administrator.
The importance on communication with shareholders.
It has Board also receives detailed quarterly asset management reports responsibility for communication with the investor base and is highlighting performance and potential risk issues on an directly involved in major communications and announcements.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders Risk assessment and the Chairman and other directors are available to meet Each identified risk is assessed in terms of probability of shareholders as required.
occurrence, potential impact on financial performance and movements in the relative significance of each risk from period to The Investment Adviser conducts the day-to-day investor relations period.
It meets with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
During 2014 the Investment Adviser and members of the Board held INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 45 Corporate Governance Report continued formal meetings with over 85 individual shareholders in addition works with to deliver and manage infrastructure projects.
As a to day-to-day interaction including calls and other forms of result, the Company encourages its partners to report on correspondence.
The Board is also informed on a regular basis of sustainability performance.
all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, Administrator and the Companys Broker.
Many investment entities in which the Company holds investments achieve high standards in sustainability, including The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for building certifications such as BREEAM, LEED and Green Star.
shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the directors and with the Investment Adviser of the Company.
Project highlights: German Ministry of Education and Research BMBF, Germany - To promote a clear understanding of the Company, its objectives Following the completion of construction in August 2014 the and financial results, the Board aims to ensure that information project was awarded Gold Status for the Evaluation Scheme for relating to the Company is disclosed in a timely manner.
The Sustainable Construction of Federal Buildings in Germany by the Company has an investor relations section on its website German Federal Ministry of Environment, Nature Conservation, www.
com where it makes Building and Nuclear Safety.
available all its publicly disclosed documents including annual reports and RNS announcements together with additional Pforzheim Schools, Germany - The project was designed for background information on its assets and corporate practices.
resource efficiency, cost effectiveness and sustainability over the Investors can register to receive notification via email of RNS concession term.
Since the commencement of operations in 2008 announcements the Company issues.
The Board encourages the innovative low energy heating, cooling and ventilation system investors to utilise this useful online resource.
has resulted in significant savings for the Public Sector.
Any shareholder issues of concern including on corporate Police Scotland, Recruitment and Training Centre, UK - Motion governance or strategy can be addressed in writing to the sensors have been installed to operate lights in the stairwells Company at its registered office address see back cover.
Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility Durham Schools, UK - Two combined heat and power plants operate to serve two secondary and one primary school.
Pure plant oil verified as being obtained from sustainable sources is Introduction used as the fuel source.
Surplus electricity that is not used is fed The Company is committed to its responsibility to the back into the national electricity grid.
environment and having a positive role in the local and global community in which it operates.
The Company encourages high South Tyneside and Gateshead Schools, UK - Rainwater standards in sustainability through an integrated approach to harvesting is operational and the water re-used within the managing and influencing our indirect environmental and social building with ground water being directed into a lagoon where impacts.
The Company recognises the value of active plant and insect life has developed.
management in delivering quality services, risk management and resource efficiency.
Moray Schools, UK - Elgin Academy, situated at the base of the Cairngorm Mountains is designed in a unique shape providing The Companys most material impacts are indirect, relating to the protection within the inner playground courtyard from the environmental and social performance of the construction and elements whilst helping to retain heat within the school.
Despite operation of the buildings and infrastructure which make up its harsh conditions utility savings of 10% have been achieved with a portfolio.
Additionally, it recognises the importance of managing gain share for using less than the target consumption of utilities.
its relationship with its Investment Adviser and associated asset management operations including the energy and resources used Highfields Pennfields Schools, UK - The project incorporates a within its operations and their contribution to the local and global renewable combined heat and power unit CHP which meets 62- community.
67% of the schools total energy requirements and saves 620 tonnes per annum in carbon emissions.
The CHP unit is fuelled by The Company's Investment Adviser focuses on sustainability sustainable rapeseed oil that is cultivated and crushed in the UK commitments, both within its operations and through the and generates both renewable heat and power for the schools.
management of the projects and assets within the Companys Excess green electrical energy is supplied onto the grid network portfolio.
The Investment Adviser operates a Sustainability Policy benefiting both the schools and the associated local authority.
The which looks beyond legislative and regulatory requirements to system also attracts additional revenue streams from the sale of promote best practice and continual improvement in renewable obligations certificates for every unit of electricity environmental management and social responsibility.
The Investment Adviser is certified to The Planet Mark and is Royal Childrens Hospital, Australia - Following successful committed to measuring and reducing its carbon footprint and completion of Stage 2 of the project an energy committee was wider sustainability metrics.
As a member of the UK Sustainable established with representation from all major stakeholders Investment and Finance Association, it supports best practice in including the Department of Health for the State Government of responsible investment.
Victoria, with the objective of delivering financial savings.
Over the past two years various energy efficiency initiatives have been The Company sees its key sustainability stakeholders as its implemented resulting in annual savings of A$300,000 and a 6% Investment Adviser and its employees, and the service providers it INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 46 Corporate Governance Report continued reduction in carbon emissions.
Following the success in achieving is expected following the installation of the EnteliWEB energy these financial and environmental savings the Authority has management system which will allow for real time reporting.
earmarked an additional A$100,000 for investment in additional efficiency schemes.
Changes in Regulation The Board actively monitors and responds to changes in Derby Courts, UK - Energy saving initiatives have included the regulation as it impacts the Company and its policies.
A number fitting of LED lights to the office area together with passive of significant changes to regulation occurred during the year.
infrared sensors in all retiring and interview rooms.
The facilities The Companys response to these and significant other policies are utilised to provide a venue for the Courts Magistrates Court are set out below: Mock Trial competition, held in conjunction with Derbyshire Secondary Schools, which aims to introduce the legal system to Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive young people in an innovative and exciting way, giving them the AIFMD opportunity to gain hands on experience.
AIFMD was transposed into law in European Union EU member states on 22 July 2013 with mandatory compliance on expiry of a North Wales Police, UK - In 2014 the car park lights on the project one year transition period.
The Board considers the Company to were re-lamped with LED lights in order to improve lighting be an internally managed non-EU fund.
A non-EU fund i. e. it is conditions, enhance CCTV coverage whilst also delivering energy the AIFM which is internally managed is outside the full scope of savings and reducing carbon emissions.
Future initiatives include AIFMD and is the subject of lighter AIFMD requirements at the assessing the project for its suitability for photo voltaic panels to point of marketing within the EU.
The company registered as a be installed.
non EU-AIF with FCA in 2014 and commenced quarterly reporting from 31 December 2014.
Bootle PFI, UK - During 2014 the project was able to provide four work experience places for local school children in conjunction Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA with the Sefton Council Education Department.
In addition FATCA became effective on 1 January 2014 and is being gradually compost is being produced from kitchen waste which is then used implemented internationally.
The legislation is aimed at to grow vegetables on site.
Such initiatives have led to the project determining the ownership of US assets in foreign accounts and being declared a zero to landfill by Sita the projects waste improving US Tax compliance with respect to those assets.
Energy saving measures have included the Board in discussion with the Companys service providers and replacement of 58 standard lights with LED equivalents resulting advisers ensured that the Company will comply with the Acts in a 60% reduction in energy and a CO2 saving of 74% in requirements to the extent relevant to the Company.
The comparison to standard lights.
Company was registered with IRS in 2014.
Northampton Schools, UK - The Project Company, through its Non-Mainstream Pooled Investment NMPI designers and contractors has worked with Northamptonshire On 1 January 2014 FCA rules relating to the restrictions on the County Council and the Building Research Establishment to retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes optimise systems and introduce energy efficient and low carbon and close substitutes came into effect.
The Board believes that technologies to the construction of new classrooms at eleven of the Company and its shareholders will not be affected by these the project sites.
The Apprenticeship programme has seen three changes.
Apprentices taken on with commitment to award two apprenticeships and one graduate place in 2015.
Locally 50% of Having taken legal advice, the Company confirms that its shares orders are with suppliers and subcontractors based in will qualify as an 'excluded security' under these new rules and Northamptonshire and a minimum of 13 days of free time will be will therefore be excluded from the FCA's restrictions which apply given under the Give a Day of Your Time programme.
As such, the Company's shares can continue to be recommended by independent financial Long Bay Forensic & Prison Hospitals, Australia - During 2014 a advisers IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Honeywell Attune Energy Management Service became fully FCA's rules.
operational and there was an upgrade to new LED down lights across the project.
These initiatives provide better light quality The Company is advised that the basis of being excluded from together with a reduction in light and power consumption of 15% these restrictions is principally due to the Company conducting its and lower carbon emissions.
affairs in such a manner that it would have qualified for approval by HMRC as an investment that had been resident in the UK in its Orange and Associated Health Services PPP, Australia - previous accounting periods.
The Company intends to conduct its Operational efficiency improvements and controls optimisation affairs so that this remains the case for the foreseeable future.
has been the focus of energy efficiency initiatives across the projects three facilities during 2014.
Further energy optimisation INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 47
