Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee is an essential statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and part of the Companys governance framework to which the Board understandable.
has delegated oversight of the Companys financial reporting, internal controls, compliance and external audit.
This report The Committee considered the key accounting judgements provides an overview of the work of the Committee and details exercised in preparing the financial statements continued to be how it has discharged its duties during the year.
related to the application of investment entity amendments as required by IFRS 10 and the basis for determining the fair value of The terms of reference for the Committee, together with details the Companys investments: of the standard business considered by the Committee, have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys Investment entity and service entities accounting website.
considerations A company which qualifies as an investment entity in accordance Committee Meetings with IFRS 10 is required to prepare financial statements on an Meetings of the Committee were attended by the Investment investment basis, that is carry underlying investments at fair Adviser and Administrator by invitation during the year.
representative of the Groups external auditors, Ernst and Young LLP, also attended by invitation those meetings at which the Service entities that provide services in connection with the financial reporting planning and the annual and interim reports investment entitys activities but that are not themselves and financial statements were considered.
investment entities under IFRS 10 continue to be consolidated within the investment entitys group accounts rather than All of the Committees members are considered to be accounted for at fair value.
appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, having significant, recent and relevant financial experience in line with the AIC Code.
The Committee considered reports from the Investment Adviser Biographies of the Committee members can be found on pages setting out the basis on which the Company continues to meet the 51-52. investment entity definition and certain subsidiary entities continue to meet the service entity definition of IFRS 10 but are not themselves investment entities, and agreed this with the Committee Agenda Companys auditors.
The Committee has accordingly The Committees agenda during the year included: recommended that the Board approves the financial statements Review of the final and interim financial statements and on this basis i. e. that investments are accounted for at fair value matters raised by management and external auditors and service entities consolidated.
Further details on the including significant financial reporting judgments therein application of investment entity amendments and service entity Review of the appropriateness of the Companys accounting considerations are detailed in note 1 to the financial statements.
policies Review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Fair Value of Investments systems The Companys investments are typically in unlisted securities, Review of the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of hence market prices for such investments are not typically readily the external auditors and the terms of engagement, cost available.
Instead the Company uses a discounted cash flow effectiveness and the scope of the audit methodology and benchmarks to market comparables to derive Approving the external auditors plan for the current year end the directors valuation of investments.
Review of the policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor This methodology requires a series of judgements to be made as Consideration and challenge of the draft valuation of the explained in note 13 to the financial statements.
Groups investments prepared by the Investment Adviser and recommendations made to the Board on the appropriateness The valuation process and methodology were discussed with the of the valuation Investment Adviser regularly during the year and with the auditor Review of the Companys risk profile, specific risks and as part of the year-end audit planning and interim review mitigation practices processes.
The Committee also challenged the Investment Adviser Review of the Companys controls over cash forecasting on the year-end fair value of investments as part of its consideration of the audited financial statements.
Key activities considered during the year The Committee undertook the following activities in discharging During the period, the Committee reviewed the Investment its responsibilities during the year: Advisers quarterly valuation reports, reports on the performance of the underlying assets and the Investment Advisers assessment Financial reporting of macro economic assumptions.
The Investment Adviser The Committee reviewed the Companys financial statements, confirmed that the valuation methodology has been applied interim reports and interim management statements prior to consistently with the prior years.
The Committee also reviewed approval by the Board and advised the Board with respect to and challenged the valuation assumptions discount rates, deposit meeting the Companys financial reporting obligations.
The rates, foreign exchange rates, inflation rates and tax rates.
Committee reviewed accounting policies and practices, including approval of the critical accounting policies: considered the appropriateness of significant judgements and estimates: and advised the Board that the annual report and the financial INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 48 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued The auditor explained the results of their review of the valuations, audit fees paid to EY are set out in note 9 to the financial including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow statements.
These were reported to and considered by the projections and assumptions: macro-economic assumptions: and Committee as not being so significant so as to risk impacting discount rate methodology and output.
On the basis of their audit objectivity and independence.
work the auditor confirmed no material adjustments were proposed.
Audit Tendering and tenure In October 2010, the Company put the audits of the Company and The Committee, having considered the major assumptions applied controlled investment entities out to tender.
In addition to especially on larger investments, recommended its complying with good practice and satisfying new corporate appropriateness to the Board.
governance requirements, the tender enabled the Board to benchmark competitiveness and value for money.
Internal controls over financial reporting The Committee satisfied itself that the system of internal control A number of firms were approached to tender for the audit.
The and compliance over financial reporting was effective, through list was based upon their experience, industry skills and regular reports from the Investment Adviser and Administrator.
knowledge, their ability to perform the audit to a high standard and any pre-existing business relationships that might affect their The Committee also considered the adequacy of resources, independence.
Following a review of the proposals received, a qualifications and experience of staff in the finance function.
The recommendation was made to the Board to appoint EY as the new Committee Chairman had direct access and independent auditor previously Deloitte LLP.
discussions with the external auditor during the course of the year.
In accordance with the relevant Corporate Governance Code principles the Committee will continue to review the effectiveness of the external auditor and seek to retender in line with best Controls and process reviews practice.
Throughout 2014 the Companys governance and assurance functions have continued to be enhanced as set out within the Corporate Governance Report.
As part of the Companys rolling Review of auditor effectiveness annual controls and processes review, an independent For the year ended 31 December 2014 the Committee reviewed assessment of internal controls over the cash flow forecasting the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
The review confirmed adequate was facilitated through the completion of a questionnaire by controls were in place and operating in relation to the cash flow relevant stakeholders including members of the Committee and forecast process.
senior members of the Investment Advisers finance team, review and challenge of the audit plan for consistency with the Groups financial statement risks, and review of the audit findings report.
External Auditors The Committee recommended to the Board the scope and terms Risk review of engagement of the third party auditors.
The Committee During 2014, the Committee carried out an in depth review of the considered auditor objectivity and independence, audit tenure key risks faced by the Company.
The exercise was aimed at and audit tendering, and auditor effectiveness.
identifying possible gaps in the current risk framework.
The review resulted in identification of certain additional risks as well Objectivity and independence as the alignment of internal and external reporting of risk.
The In assessing the objectivity of the auditor, the Committee Companys risk register was updated to reflect the results of the considered the terms under which the external auditor may be deliberations.
The Committee was satisfied with the robustness of appointed to perform non-audit services.
Work expected to be the risk management framework in place.
completed by an external auditor includes formal reporting for shareholders, regulatory assurance reports and work in Regulatory environment connection with new investments.
The Committee received regular reports from the Administrator and Investment Adviser on regulation and regulatory Under the policy there is a specific list of services for which the developments.
Key regulatory actions taken during the year external auditor cannot be engaged as the Committee considers related to the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA that the provision of such services would impact their and the European Union Alternative Investment Fund independence.
Any potential services to be provided by the Management Directive AIFMD.
external auditor that have an expected value of up to 50,000 and which are not prohibited by the policy must be pre-approved by As a non EU-Alternative Investment Fund AIF marketing in the the Chairman of the Committee: any services above this require United Kingdom, the Company registered with the FCA under the pre-approval by the full Committee.
National Private Placement Regime NPPR and carries out periodic reporting on the Companys activities.
During the year, Non-audit fees represented 11% of total audit fees, reflecting the the Company has also been registered for FATCA.
relatively low level of non-audit work conducted.
In order to maintain Ernst and Youngs EY independence and Fair, Balanced and Understandable objectivity, EY undertook its standard independence procedures in The Committee introduced a new process in 2014 for the review relation to those engagements and confirmed compliance with of the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements in order to these to the Committee.
Further details on the amounts of nonsupport it in making the statement that it considers them to be INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 49 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued fair, balanced and understandable.
This process has continued to apply and included a thorough review of the corporate governance best practice guidance and putting in place processes to ensure consistency, clarity, fairness and balance within the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
This also takes into comments provided by the Companys Investment Adviser, Administrator and external auditor.
The Committee has reviewed the Companys 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements and has advised the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, operating model and strategy.
John Whittle 25 March 2015 Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 50
