Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Chairmans overview Leadership Role of the Board and its Members The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Company and provides leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be appropriately assessed and managed.
The Board sets the strategic direction, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
The Board takes a long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to a wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing its objectives in a manner consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the Companys On behalf of the Board it gives me great pleasure to introduce this members as a whole.
The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company.
It is our responsibility and ability in their particular field of endeavour, and a diversity of to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned to the interests of outlook and experience which directly benefits the operation of the our investors and takes account of the interests of all the Companys Board as the custodian of the business.
A full biography of each Board stakeholders.
As individuals, we believe that effective corporate member is provided on pages 46 and 47. governance is based on honesty, integrity and transparency, and can only be fully realised within an environment of open, robust Roles and responsibilities and effective debate.
This is the Board culture we foster at Sky, The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and have been so and it is my personal responsibility as Chairman to ensure that since the Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994.
The roles we continue to live this culture and promote it within our business.
and expectations of each Director are clearly defined and recorded Following last years external Board evaluation and in line with within their letters of appointment or service contracts.
The roles corporate governance best practice, during the year an internal and responsibilities of the Board members are explained below.
The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees continue to The Chairman operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an Nick Ferguson is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to their its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The resulting development themes that arose from the evaluation The Chairman is responsible for creating an environment for open, are discussed on page 57. robust and effective debate This includes ensuring, via the Company The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the Secretary, that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information in the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Further detail of these arrangements can be found on page 55.
As a result of this, the Board considers the annual report and accounts, The Chief Executive Officer taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides Jeremy Darroch is responsible and accountable to the Board for the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys the management and operation of the Company, advancing long-term performance, business model and strategy.
shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is also During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater involved in the management of the social and environmental and more effective engagement with our shareholders.
Andy responsibilities of the Company.
Higginson, our Executive Directors and I, have met with institutional investors and analysts.
Along with Tracy Clarke, Chairman of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID the Remuneration Committee, we will continue to engage with The role of the SID, currently carried out by Andy Higginson, is shareholders over the course of the coming financial year.
responsible for providing support and counterbalance to the role Nick Ferguson of the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact Chairman for shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors Compliance with the UK corporate governance code The UK Corporate Governance Code as revised in September 2012 Chase Carey, Tracy Clark, David DeVoe, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate, the Code provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK.
Andy Higginson, Dave Lewis, James Murdoch, Matthieu Pigasse, The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose Danny Rimer, Arthur Siskind and Andy Sukawaty, collectively, are whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code responsible for constructively challenging the Executive Directors throughout the financial year.
and overseeing the delivery of the Companys strategy within the risk and control framework.
The Board considers that the Company has fully complied with the provisions and applied the main principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 June 2014.
This section of the Annual Report along with the Directors remuneration report on pages 59 to 76, the Directors report and other statutory disclosures on pages 77 to 80 provide details of how the Company has applied the main principles.
48 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Company Secretary Board and Committee framework Chris Taylor has been Company Secretary since November 2012 and is responsible for the following in respect of effective Board operation: To ensure good information flows within the Board and its committees, between senior management and Non-Executive Directors: Board To facilitate Director induction and assisting with professional development: and To advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate Remuneration Audit governance obligations and developments in best practice.
Committee Committee All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who advises on corporate governance matters, Board procedures and other relevant rules and regulations.
In addition, Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Corporate Bigger Picture Environment supportive of challenge Governance & Committee Nominations The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent Committee checks and balances within the various Board roles.
As highly qualified and successful individuals in their respective fields of endeavour, all Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and contribute to decisions relating to the strategy of the Company, its performance and its impact on stakeholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are evaluated and judged on the quality and content of their contributions to Board debate and are expected to offer alternative viewpoints and challenge The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of corporate perceptions and decisions as appropriate.
reporting, risk management and the Companys relationship with its auditor.
Significant risks to the business are kept under review Board Agenda and appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed as appropriate.
The Companys principal risks and examples of how In addition to its reserved and standing matters, the Board also we mitigate those risks are detailed on pages 40 to 43.
For further considered and received a number of updates and presentations, details, the Audit Committee Report can be found on pages 53 to 55. giving Directors a further opportunity to explore and analyse topics such as: The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Remuneration policy for the Board and ensures that no Director is The Companys operations and five year financial plans involved in decisions affecting their own remuneration.
The Directors The general market and economic outlook Remuneration Report can be found on pages 59 to 76.
The competitive landscape, opportunities and market trends The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is responsible for oversight of the structure, size, composition and succession Growth of existing business activities planning of the Board and its committees and overall compliance Existing and new products, services and technological developments with corporate governance standards.
The Report of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee can be found on pages To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day-to-day affairs 56 and 57. of the Company, the Board has identified certain matters that only it can approve and these matters are contained within the Companys The Bigger Picture Committee has responsibility for oversight of the social, Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board which can be found at environmental and ethical impacts of the Companys activities.
of the Bigger Picture Committee can be found on pages 57 to 58.
The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all Board Board delegation Directors on a timely basis.
At each Board meeting the chairman The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, of each committee provides the Board with a brief update of the notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance & Nominations work currently being carried out by the committee they chair.
Other and the Bigger Picture committees.
Each committees terms of sub-committees and steering groups provide additional resource reference can be found on the Companys corporate website.
and support to the Board Committees or are formed for specific tasks.
A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by the CEO and comprises the CFO and other senior executives from within the Group.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 49 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Board and Committee attendance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
The table shows the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend.
Corporate Governance & Notes Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Bigger Picture Number of meetings held in year 7 6 5 3 2 Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch, CEO 7 7 Andrew Griffith, CFO 7 7 Non-Executive Directors Chase Carey 1 6 7 Tracy Clarke 7 7 5 5 2 2 David DeVoe 7 7 Nick Ferguson 7 7 5 5 3 3 Martin Gilbert 2 6 7 5 6 4 5 Adine Grate 3 7 7 5 5 Andy Higginson 4 7 7 5 6 2 3 Dave Lewis 7 7 6 6 3 3 2 2 James Murdoch 7 7 2 2 Matthieu Pigasse 5 6 7 4 6 Danny Rimer 6 6 7 2 2 1 1 Arthur Siskind 7 7 3 3 Andy Sukawaty 7 7 5 5 Notes 1 Chase Carey was unable to attend a Board meeting due to conflicting business arrangements.
2 Martin Gilbert was unable to attend Board and Committee meetings due to prior Aberdeen Asset Management engagements.
3 Adine Grate was appointed to the Audit committee on 26 July 2013 and was not eligible to attend the meeting on the prior day.
4 Andy Higginson was unable to attend Committee meetings due to conflicting Rugby Football Union board meetings.
5 Matthieu Pigasse was unable to attend Board and Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting due to overseas travel on Lazard business and personal reasons.
6 Danny Rimer was unable to attend a Board meeting due to prior Index Ventures engagements.
Danny stepped down as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee and as member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee following the Companys AGM on 22 November 2013.
Effectiveness Board composition and independence The Board currently comprises 15 Directors, made up of two Executive Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member Directors and 13 Non-Executive Directors.
At least half of the Board receives and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that of Directors are determined to be independent by the Board may affect independence according to best practice statements in accordance with provision B.
On appointment, contained within the Code.
The responses to the questionnaire the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in provision assist the Board in ascertaining whether a Director is independent B.
Biographies of each of the Directors are set out in character and judgement, and whether there are relationships on pages 46 to 47. or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, Chase Carey, David DeVoe, James Murdoch and Arthur Siskind represent the Directors judgement.
the Companys largest shareholder, 21st Century Fox and as such are Board Composition not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
Each of these Directors has extensive media and pay TV experience Chairman and makes significant contribution to Board discussion.
Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of Other Non-Executive Directors experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to challenge management and help develop proposals on strategy.
Time is regularly put aside at Board meetings to discuss the strategic direction of the Company.
50 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Appointments to the Board, diversity and succession planning Jeremy Darroch was appointed as an independent non-executive director of Burberry Group plc on 5 February 2014, and is a member The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the of the audit, nominations and remuneration committees.
Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of service of individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession Andrew Griffith was appointed as an independent non-executive planning and supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an director of Just Eat plc on 12 March 2014.
Andrew serves as senior established procedure for the appointment of Directors.
In brief, the independent director, chairman of the audit committee and is a Committee identifies the set of skills and experience required and, member of the remuneration and nominations committees.
Details with the assistance of external search agencies, selects individuals of pay in respect of these appointments can be found in the Directors to take Board positions on review of their individual merits, regardless Remuneration Report on page 66. of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
Further information on the work of the Committee during the year can be found on pages 56 to 57.
Time commitment The Board has published a statement of its intention to increase All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments female representation on the Board which can be found on the required on induction, and are expected to devote sufficient time Companys corporate website.
As required by company legislation, for the effective discharge of their functions.
The Company provides a table on page 78 illustrates gender diversity amongst the Board.
Non-Executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities for consideration of the Companys strategy and performance, and a dialogue with the Chairman is strongly encouraged so that any Diversity ratio of Directors appointed in last 2 years issues regarding conflicting commitments and time pressures can be addressed appropriately.
Induction and training All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual 2 3 requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all of the Female Male Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the businesss Length of time served on the Board excluding Executive Directors performance.
During the year, Directors have received presentations from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group, Sky Media, Sky Sports and Strategic Planning Group.
The Chairman meets with the Directors throughout the year to review and agree their individual training and developmental needs.
0-5 years 54% 5 years 46% During the year, the Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman and CEO, facilitated Adine Grates induction programme.
1 Industry background experience The elements of the programme are detailed below: Industry related 9 International 11 September November February April Finance investment 7 2013: 2013: 2014: 2014: Technology Innovation 4 Regulatory 5 Meetings Customer Product Accompanied Executive 7 with Senior contact demonstrations a Sky engineer Executives, centre visit on customer Sky News and visits 1 Directors may fall into one or more categories.
Sky Studio visits Directors reappointment In respect of Code provision B.
7.1, all Executive and Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the In addition to this, various presentations from prior Board meetings Companys 2014 AGM, with the exception of Andy Higginson who were made available to Adine in order to improve her understanding of will be retiring from the Board.
the Company and the competitive and regulatory landscape in which it operates.
In view of her position as a member of the Audit Committee, External directorships Adine met with the external auditors as part of her induction.
Any external appointments for the Executive Directors are considered by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
Executive Board evaluation Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 In line with corporate governance best practice, and following the company, but are allowed to take up one external non-executive external Board evaluation carried out by Alice Perkins of JCA Group FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payments in respect of such last year, an internal Board evaluation was undertaken during the year.
The process was facilitated by Andy Higginson, our Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
Further detail of the evaluation process can be found in the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee report on page 57.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 51 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Information provided to the Directors Relations with shareholders Shareholder communications The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and its committees and between senior Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business management and Non-Executive Directors.
For each Board and are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate Committee meeting, Directors are provided with a tailored Board pack website.
The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes at least one week prior to the meeting.
To improve the delivery and downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of security of Board papers, the Company has adopted an electronic shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage system allowing the Board to easily access information, irrespective of of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website geographic location.
Directors regularly receive additional information to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders from the Company between Board meetings, including a daily press where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The summary and a monthly Group performance update.
Where a Director shareholder information section on page 141 contains further details was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided with all the papers on electronic shareholder communications together with more general and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the issues arising directly with the Chairman and CEO.
Conflicts of interest Shareholder engagement Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys Articles and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not each year and the Chairman, CEO, CFO and Andy Higginson have in breach of his duty under company law.
attended meetings with investors, as appropriate.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and investors around the time of All existing external appointments for each Director have been the half-year and full-year results announcement: conference calls authorised by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a are held with analysts and investors following the announcement Conflicts Register.
Directors are required to notify the Board of of the first quarter and third quarter results, and presentations are potential conflicts so that they can be considered, and if appropriate, made during the year to many existing or potential shareholders at authorised by the Board.
In addition, the Corporate Governance investor conferences.
The Company hosts an annual meeting for its & Nominations Committee conducts an annual review of Directors major shareholders to discuss remuneration policy and this year, conflicts and reports its findings to the Board.
The Corporate as a result of new remuneration regulations, the Company invited Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts its major shareholders to comment on the proposed changes to its during the financial year and concluded that conflicts had been remuneration policy.
appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation is operating effectively.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations The Annual General Meeting Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and sets aside time at the meeting for shareholders Directors and Officers Insurance and Indemnity to ask questions.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys activities for the previous year.
All resolutions at The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively the 2013 AGM were voted by way of a poll.
This follows best practice accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of Companys affairs.
The Company maintains a Directors and Officers shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Code, liability insurance policy.
Additionally, the Companys Articles of all resolutions were voted separately and the final voting results, Association allow the Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together of indemnity have been issued to all Directors of the Company.
with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were released to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The announcement was also made available on the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy form and the announcement of the voting results made it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
52 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Attendance at Committee Meetings Report of the Audit Committee Chairmans overview David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to attend meetings.
However, their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
The CFO, other business and finance We have had a busy year as executives and representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, we continued to focus on and the internal audit department attend meetings at the request the financial performance of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
of the Company, internal audit, external audit, risk Audit Committee Agenda management, compliance Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items: and financial governance.
Review and recommendation to the Board of the quarterly, interim and full-year financial statements We were pleased to welcome Adine Grate as a member of the Committee in July 2013.
Adine has extensive financial and investment The review and recommendation to the Board of the dividend policy management experience and we value her contribution at Committee and proposed payments meetings.
We have continued to receive a number of presentations Liquidity and going concern review from the management of different business areas, which this year included Sky Bet, Product Design and Development and the Sales and Review and recommendation of the budget to the Board Marketing Groups to improve our understanding of their operations, Annual reporting due diligence procedures and corporate the risks they face and how those risks are managed.
governance updates We reviewed the integration approach of the O2 consumer broadband The external auditors, assessment of the effectiveness of the and fixed-line telephony business both at the start and following external audit process, terms of engagement and scope of audit its completion, and received a range of presentations relating to data governance, health and safety, fraud and cyber security.
Auditor independence and the policy on the provision of non-audit We also received regular reports from the internal audit function services by the external auditor and external auditor.
Audit plans and findings of external and internal audits We have considered the processes underpinning the production Quarterly reports from the treasury function on the funding, and approval of this years annual report to enable the Board to liquidity, going concern and operational capabilities of the Group confirm that the annual report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and compliance with treasury policies.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model Quarterly updates from internal audit on the status of Senior and strategy and a description of how we approached this can Accounting Officer SAO certification work to ensure SAO be found below.
compliance: There were six meetings during the year and after each Committee Post-acquisition review of the O2 consumer broadband and meeting I gave an oral update to the Board on the key issues discussed fixed-line telephone business during our meetings.
The Committee also has private meetings with Quarterly reports of all related party transactions during the year the Companys external auditors throughout the year.
in excess of 100,000 in value You can find additional information of how we have carried out Review and oversight of the Group risk register, risk methodology our role and responsibilities within the remainder of this report.
and risk management systems and processes The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and controls: Martin Gilbert Committee Chairman Taxation, security, fraud, whistleblowing, cyber security, health and safety, data protection and internal audit updates Committee composition Martin Gilbert Chairman Adine Grate appointed on 26 July 2013 Andy Higginson Dave Lewis Matthieu Pigasse The Committee members have considerable financial and business experience and the Board considers that the membership as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its responsibilities.
In addition, the Board has determined that each member of the Committee has sufficient accounting or related financial management expertise in line with the Code.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 53 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness Significant accounting issues of the operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk When considering the annual financial statements, the Committee management during the year, and this review has been carried out for reviewed the significant areas of judgement and the Groups critical the year ended 30 June 2014 and up to the date on which the financial accounting policies as set out on pages 90 and 96 with particular statements were approved.
This review relates to the Company and focus on the following: its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
The Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups Director: Audit, Retail subscription revenue: Risk Management and Compliance and the external auditors.
The majority of the Groups revenues derive from retail subscription packages, including hardware, supplied to customers.
The Group There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the applies judgement in determining the accounting allocation of annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved payments received from customers to different elements of the by the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget through bundled package, taking into consideration the timing and relative weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial year under value attributed to each element.
During the year, the Committee review monthly reports on performance were provided to the Board received a performance report from the CFO at each committee and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
meeting that included a review of revenues recognised in the period.
In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group Finance team is In addition, the Committee received presentations on the Groups responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and there sales and marketing operations and on new revenue streams are well established controls over the financial reporting process.
The Committee considered managements These are also documented in line with the requirements of the Senior policy and presentations, and considered the views of the external Accounting Officer SAO legislation and the controls are reviewed and auditor and is satisfied that the policies have been applied signed off to confirm their continuous operation by the control owners consistently and appropriately.
twice a year and are independently tested by the internal audit team.
The results of the SAO testing are reported to the Committee on a General entertainment programming inventory: quarterly basis.
The Committee reviews the policy for the recognition of content costs and seeks assurances from management and takes into account the Changes in internal controls views of the external auditor that the policy is appropriate and has been applied consistently.
The method for recognising general No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting entertainment programming expense requires estimation and has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2014 that has materially judgement.
In the year the Committee received a presentation from affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups management that reviewed the accounting methodology for the internal control over financial reporting.
different range of programme genres by comparing viewing profiles and industry benchmarks, to ensure that the expense recognised is Risk registers consistent with the associated relative value received from broadcast.
There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group The Committee is satisfied that the policies have been applied and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The risk register consistently, are appropriate and are aligned to industry practice.
framework is based on methodology to identify the risk based on Capitalisation of intangible and tangible non-current assets: impact and likelihood.
The risk is assessed, quantified and measured The Committee considered the Groups policies and sought assurances which enables discussions on risk appetite.
The registers detail the from management that the Groups project accounting controls are controls that manage the risks and, where necessary, the action plans operating as intended and that spend capitalised as Property, Plant to mitigate the risk exposure.
and Equipment and Intangible assets meets the relevant accounting The business develops the action plans and the internal audit team requirements.
During the year the Committee also received monitors their implementation.
The Committee formally reviews the presentations on the Groups principal project functions including Group Risk Register twice a year and there is a rolling programme product design and development and technology.
The Committee where senior executives from the business present their risk also considered the report from the external auditor.
is satisfied that the Group has followed accounting standards regarding the capitalisation of project expenditure.
The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management to the Groups operating management.
Internal control and risk management The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups 40 to 43. systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
During the period under review no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
54 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report During the year, the following examples were deemed to be Fair, balanced and understandable assessment pre-approved in accordance with the policy.
To enable the Board to confirm that the Annual Report taken as a Comfort procedures in relation to debt programme update whole is fair, balanced and understandable, a process was approved by the Committee which involved establishing a steering committee Assurance of certain KPIs for the Bigger Picture Review consisting of stakeholders from Corporate Affairs, Investor Relations, Group Finance, the Bigger Picture, Company Secretariat and Legal, Effectiveness of external auditor process which had oversight of the production of the Annual Report.
During the year, the effectiveness of the audit process was assessed Comprehensive due diligence procedures and guidance were by the Committee, Group Finance team and other key internal developed to assist with the review process and requirements of stakeholders in the form of a questionnaire.
The Disclosure Committee maintained oversight of the review were: review process and submitted certification to the Committee prior to approval that the necessary compliance requirements had been met.
Quality, resources and scope of planning of the audit Objectivity, independence and transparency of the audit Disclosure controls and procedures Identification of key accounting judgements, significant audit The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems and accounting issues that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed as part of the Companys UK listing obligations is accumulated and Level of technical knowledge and professional scepticism communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as Understanding Sky as a business, its values and culture and appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
challenges it faces Quality of reporting and communications to the Audit Committee Auditor independence The responses to the assessment were discussed which confirmed For the year ended 30 June 2014, the Committee has reviewed audit that Deloitte are performing as expected.
Deloitte continue to independence and scope of non-audit services and independence demonstrate strengths in the majority of these areas.
safeguards with Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
As part of the review, the Audit Committee has received and reviewed There are no significant findings from the assessment and Deloitte confirmation in writing that, in Deloittes professional judgement, continue to carry out an effective and robust external audit.
Deloitte is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit Audit partner rotation engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity for the engagement every five years.
The current lead partner started and independence of Deloitte was not in any way impaired by either his term of office in relation to the 2010 11 financial year.
As the audit the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the partner enters the fifth year of engagement with the Company, year, the level of non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or it has been agreed that a new audit partner be invited to Committee circumstances.
Audit and non-audit services provided during the year meetings to ensure a smooth and orderly transition.
In terms of orderly were approved by the Committee.
An analysis of auditor remuneration succession and to safeguard challenge and objectivity, the current is disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
audit partner will rotate after the 2014 15 audit.
Audit and non-audit services Tenure of external auditor The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor of audit The regulatory regime relating to mandatory audit tendering has and non-audit services, which categorises such services between: significantly changed in the UK and Europe.
The Committee is closely monitoring these developments and taking into account that Those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: Deloitte has been the external auditor of the Company since June Those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide and 2002, it expects to conduct an audit tender before June 2020.
The the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Committee: Committee is satisfied with the quality of challenge, scepticism and and execution by the current auditors and takes into account the Committees annual assessment of the quality of the external audit Those services for which the specific approval of the Committee process, the Companys strategic plans and the implementation of is required before the auditor is permitted to provide the service.
the EU audit directive in the UK.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by the external auditor is reviewed by the Committee on a quarterly basis.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 55 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee Attendance at Committee Meetings Chairmans overview The CEO and General Counsel attend the meetings from time to time and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
We have had an active year, continuing to grow Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee Agenda and diversify our Board Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items: and Committees.
Board and Committee composition Internal Board evaluation Review of Non-Executive Director independence Review of Directors conflicts of interest We were pleased to recommend Tracy Clarke as Chair of the Succession planning Remuneration Committee, in place of Danny Rimer who stepped Changes to the Listing Rules for companies with controlling down as both Chairman and a member of the Remuneration shareholders Committee following the Companys 2013 AGM.
We further recommended Adine Grate to the Board of Directors and Activities during the year as a member of the Audit Committee.
Recruitment processes This year an internal Board evaluation process was undertaken During the year, the Committee has continued to review the following on from last years external evaluation.
The results of composition of the Board and its committees.
There is a formal the evaluation were encouraging and confirmed that the Board recruitment process to identify candidates who meet the and its Committees continue to operate effectively with each Boards criteria.
of the Directors making valued and effective contributions.
In the case of Adine Grate, the most recent appointment to the The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to Board, the Committee engaged with Ridgeway Partners, an external innovations and change within the field, and continues to actively recruitment consultancy to help identify possible candidates and run progress initiatives such as addressing gender balance on the Board, the recruitment process.
Ridgeway Partners has no other connection sourcing the right skills to complement our talented management with the Company.
The timing and recruitment process of Adines team and creating robust succession plans to safeguard the appointment was started in the prior year and was completed in this Companys future performance.
The recruitment process includes: There were three meetings held during the year and after each Briefing of external recruitment consultancy to ensure greater Committee meeting, I reported to the Board on the key issues understanding of the Companys requirements discussed during our meetings.
You can find further information of how we have carried out our role and responsibilities within Review of a shortlist of potential candidates the remainder of this report.
The Committees terms of reference Review of candidates background, experience and skill set, are available on the Companys corporate website.
and potential areas for strengthening the Board.
Andy Higginson Candidate interviews with members of the Committee and the CEO Committee Chairman Committee composition Committee composition During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of all Committees and it was agreed that Adine Grate be appointed to the Andy Higginson Chairman Audit Committee on 26 July 2013 and Danny Rimer would step down Nick Ferguson as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee and as Dave Lewis a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee, Arthur Siskind following the Companys AGM in November 2013.
Tracy Clarke was identified as a suitable successor and she succeeded Danny Rimer as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee after the Companys AGM.
On 24 July 2014, Martin Gilbert stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee and Adine Grate was appointed in his place with effect from 25 July 2014.
56 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Board evaluation Bigger Picture Committee During the year, time was scheduled with each of the Directors Chairmans overview to discuss the following: the effectiveness of the Board as a whole: During the year, the Committee the mix of skills and experience on the Board: has continued to provide strategic leadership in relation the effectiveness of Board processes and procedures: to Skys Bigger Picture development of the Companys strategy: and initiatives.
the performance of Board committees.
The Chairman of the Committee reported the findings of the evaluation to the Committee and the Board and noted a number of strengths: The quality and structure of the Directors induction programme There were two meetings during the year and after each Committee was comprehensive meeting I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed during The quality of information presented to the Board was of a high the meeting.
standard I am pleased to report that the Committee has seen significant The most recently appointed members of the Board had embedded progress across all areas of the programme, from the launch of well and had strengthened the diversity of the Board Sky Academy in November 2013, to reducing environment impacts and working with suppliers to strengthen our approach to Board strategy sessions, insight and prioritisation of projects had responsible sourcing.
enriched Board discussion In 2013, once again, we were identified as one of the leading companies Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its Committees continues in the Publishing Media sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Progress against all of our Bigger Picture commitments and initiatives Independence is detailed on pages 27 to 31 and at sky.
com biggerpicture During the year, all Non-Executive Directors were asked to complete questionnaires to enable the Committee to determine their The Committee believes that the focus and scale of the work being independence.
The Committee reviewed the questionnaires and done continues to make a significant contribution to Skys ability recommended to the Board that there be no changes to the to build a better business for the long term.
independent status of the current Independent Non-Executive James Murdoch Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Committee Chairman Board to be independent are clearly identified on pages 46 to 47.
As noted on page 50, James Murdoch, Chase Carey, David DeVoe and Composition of the Committee Arthur Siskind are not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code, however, following the evaluation the Committee considers James Murdoch Chairman and agrees that each of these directors continue to make a significant Tracy Clarke contribution to Board and Committee discussions.
Dave Lewis The Committees review took into consideration the fact that Andy Higginson has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Attendance at Committee Meetings Provision B.
1.1 of the Code states that serving more than nine years The CEO, CFO, senior executives, representatives from Corporate could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive Directors Affairs and the Bigger Picture team attend meetings at the request independence.
The Committee concluded that Andy Higginson of the Chairman.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary continues to demonstrate the essential characteristics of to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are available independence expected by the Board and that there are no on the Companys corporate website.
relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
In July 2013, the Board agreed that he should remain on the Board for an additional year in order to Bigger Picture Committee Agenda maintain a degree of certainty and smooth handover of Board and Focus for the year has centred on the following items: Committee experience and knowledge and help to integrate the recently appointed Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Andy A review of consumer tracker results Higginson will step down at this years AGM.
Responsible cycling and impact of our partnership with British Cycling Directors conflicts Sky Rainforest Rescue The Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded that Directors conflicts had been appropriately Sky Arts Ignition authorised and that the process for authorisation was operating Sky Academy effectively.
The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate Environmental performance them as necessary.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 57 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Activities during the year The Committee oversaw a number of key developments in relation to Skys Bigger Picture initiatives, notably the launch of Sky Academy with a target to help up to one million young people fulfil their potential by 2020.
The development of Sky Academy as the hub for Skys commitment to enable young people has supported the recommendation of the Committee for greater focus on a clear set of initiatives with a common goal.
The Committee noted the early progress of all strands of Sky Academy initiatives, including: reaching over 20,000 young people since its launch through Sky Academy Skills Studios and expanding into Scotland: extending our Sky Academy Scholarships offering with the launch of TV scholarships: reaching more than 95,000 young people through Sky Sports Living for Sports initiatives, expanding into Ireland: and making a strong start against our commitment to doubling the number of career opportunities available for young people within Sky.
The Committee also reviewed progress against Skys environment targets and accompanying commitments.
The Committee noted that there has been a further reduction in carbon intensity by 2% over the last year and they discussed the potential carbon savings of the campus redevelopment plans and progress in implementing these plans.
See page 79 for more information on our emissions.
Over the year, the Committee reviewed the positive progress made in raising consumer awareness and favourability through the Bigger Picture initiatives.
The independent quarterly mass consumer survey shows further growth in awareness of Bigger Picture initiatives, increasing to almost 70% of customers and almost half of prospective customers.
The Committee expressed its support for the commencement of the next phase of the cycling partnership with British Cycling after a great year of strong pro-cycling and grassroots performance, and staff and stakeholder involvement.
The Committee encouraged the business to take a stronger position in promoting safe cycling through Skys partnership with British Cycling, particularly around the use of helmets in marketing campaigns, and focus on mutual respect between cyclists and motorists.
The Committee oversaw the success of the Sky Rainforest Rescue partnership with WWF in reaching the overall campaign fundraising target of 8 million a year early.
The partnership continues to drive efforts for the project area in Acre, Brazil, and activities to raise awareness in the UK of rainforest deforestation in the Amazon.
The Committee reviewed the achievements of the Sky Arts Ignition Memory Palace project with the V&A, along with the launch of a groundbreaking digital project and on-air programming in Ireland in partnership with Rough Magic and Opera Touring Company.
The Committee continues to note the positive economic, social and environmental contribution of Sky in the UK and Ireland, through its approach to seeing the bigger picture.
For more information go to sky.
com biggerpicture 58 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
