Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance 43 Audit Committee Objective To provide independent scrutiny of the groups financial reporting, the internal control environment and processes in place to monitor this, the adequacy of the risk management framework and the activities of the external auditors.
Responsibilities Reviewing the financial results announcements and financial statements and any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they may contain: Advising the board on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy: Ensuring compliance with applicable accounting standards and reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices in place: Assessing the adequacy of the internal control environment and the Ian McHoul processes in place to monitor this, including reviewing the activities and performance of the internal audit team: Audit Committee Chairman Reviewing risk management processes and considering the adequacy of the actions being taken to identify risks and reduce I am delighted to have been the exposure of the group to those risks: appointed to the role of chair of Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing their activities and performance and advising the board on their Britvics Audit Committee, taking appointment and remuneration: over from Michael Shallow in Ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals to raise issues with the board where a breach of conduct or compliance, June this year.
including any financial reporting irregularity, is suspected.
I have found the Committee to be well set up to undertake the key responsibilities described in the report below and have been pleased Membership and meetings by the focus on governance and control that I have seen.
The Committees undertaking to ensure appropriate oversight over Number of Meetings Membership and Attendance Attended Held the financial reporting, internal control processes and risk management is well supported by the reporting and insight provided by management, 1 Ian McHoul Chairman 3 3 internal audit and the external auditors.
Additional information and Bob Ivell 4 4 reporting has been provided on request and there is an open dialogue between the Committee and the Director of Internal Audit and Risk Ben Gordon 4 4 and the external auditors throughout the year.
2 Michael Shallow 3 3 The Committee discusses a broad range of topics and raises challenges Notes: and questions to support understanding and ensure that all appropriate 1.
Meetings attended by Ian McHoul subsequent to his appointment on 10 March 2014. considerations have been made.
The most significant matters discussed 2.
Meetings attended by Michael Shallow up until his date of resignation on 1 July 2014. over the course of the year are described in the report below.
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, Ben Over the course of this year we have also discussed the impact of the Gordon, Bob Ivell and myself as Chairman.
The board is satisfied that new EU legislation regarding external audit on our business, particularly I have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the in relation to the re-appointment of our existing external auditors and Code, being a serving finance director with Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
tender process that was planned for FY15.
Given that the detail of how this legislation will be adopted in the UK is not yet determined in full, we have decided to defer the tender until such time as this is clear, to ensure that we are in the best place to fully comply with the new requirements.
44 Governance Audit Committee continued The Committee typically meets three times a year: in November and The application of acceptable accounting policies and practices is May to review the annual report and accounts and interim report consistent across the group: respectively and to consider the external audit findings, and in The disclosures provided are clear and as required by financial September to review the activities of the previous year, the plan for reporting standards: the year ahead and to consider any emerging issues.
At each meeting Any correspondence from regulators has been received in relation the performance and findings of the internal audit team are reviewed to our financial reporting.
and the most recent key risks are considered.
An additional meeting was held during the year, in March, to approve additional non-audit The reviews are based on information provided by the Chief Financial consulting spend with the companys auditors in respect of the final Officer and his team as well as reports from the external auditor phase of the Value Organisation Programme.
based on the outcomes of their half year review and annual audit.
Attendees at each of the meetings are the Committees members as Primary areas of focus considered by the Committee in relation to the well as, by invitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 2014 accounts, and how these were addressed were: Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the General Counsel, the Director of Audit and Risk and the external auditor, Ernst and Young LLP.
Valuation of goodwill and Each meeting allows time for the Committee to speak with key people indefinite lived assets without the presence of the others, in particular the external auditor and the Director of Audit and Risk.
The review of goodwill and intangible assets is based on a calculation of value in use, using cash flow projections based on financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by the board of directors.
Main activities during the year The challenging economic conditions in the UK and Europe increase The Committee supports the board in carrying out its responsibilities the risk of impairment and the committee addressed this by receiving in relation to financial reporting, risk management and assessing reports from management outlining the basis for assumptions used internal controls.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the companys for cash generating units together with sensitivities.
Business plans internal audit function and manages the relationship with the external are signed off by the board and assessment models are reviewed as auditor.
The Audit Committee also ensures that the company has part of the audit, for which the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, appropriate provision for confidential and impartial whistle blowing in provide reporting to the Committee.
Committee meetings usually take place prior to a board meeting, Revenue recognition where I report to the board on the activity of the Committee and The group recognises revenue when goods are delivered and accepted matters of particular relevance to the board.
The Committee reviewed the testing and controls of Following the revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code, which the revenue cycle, including long term discounts, promotional discounts applies to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, and account development funds to ensure that a consistent IFRS the board asked the Committee to advise them on whether the compliant policy is in place and it is complied with.
In addition in 2014 annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced the Committee requested and reviewed papers prepared by management and understandable and provides the information necessary for on governance process and controls, with particular reference to the shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model application of discounts for major customers.
The Committees terms of reference have been amended to reflect Exceptional items this and can be found on our website at britvic.
aspx The Committee reviewed the classification and disclosure of exceptional items, defined by the group as significant items of income and expense The Committee undertook the following activities during the course of which because of the size, nature and infrequency merit separate the year to discharge its responsibilities: presentation.
Financial reporting Derivative and hedging activities The role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to ensure The group has derivative instruments to which hedge accounting is that the half year and annual financial statements are appropriate.
applied and which swap principal and interest of US Private Placement Reviews are carried out with both management and the external notes.
The Committee reviewed comparisons of valuations to external auditor through the year, and focus areas include evaluating whether: confirmations, assessment of hedge effectiveness and the quality of The annual report and financial accounts represent a fair, balanced financial statement disclosures including new requirements from the and understandable view of information for shareholders: introduction of IFRS 13.
The financial statements comply with all applicable financial reporting standards and any other required regulations: Material areas of significant judgement have been given due consideration by management and reviewed with external auditors: Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Audit Committee continued 45 External auditor performance Taxation The external auditors, Ernst and Young LLP, provided the Committee Any uncertain tax positions within the group were reviewed to ensure with their plan for undertaking the year end audit at the Committee meeting that the balance sheet provisions are appropriate and the group in May 2014.
This highlighted the proposed approach and scope of effective tax rate is calculated at an acceptable level.
the audit for the coming year and identified the key areas of audit risk, including the audit approach for these areas.
These key areas were primarily identified as areas of judgement and complexity and included Defined benefit pension scheme the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite lived assets, the accounting for the groups derivatives and hedging activities, revenue recognition valuation and the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The Committee The Committee reviewed benchmarks and assumptions that are provided reviewed and appropriately challenged the basis for these before by the groups actuaries and used to value the pension liabilities for the agreeing the proposed approach and scope of the external audit.
The underlying assumptions based on The external auditors prepared a detailed report of their audit findings market conditions and the characteristics of the schemes are at the year end, which they took the Committee through at the reviewed by management and the external auditors and reported on meeting in November.
The findings were reviewed and discussed in to the Committee.
detail by the Committee, particularly in relation to the areas highlighted above.
A similar review of the external auditors report of their findings Internal audit and control at the half year review is undertaken by the Committee.
As part of this review the Committee questioned and challenged the work The Committee agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the Internal undertaken, the findings and the key assumptions made, with audit team prior to the start of the year and, during each of the meetings particular attention to the areas of audit risk identified.
throughout the year, progress against this plan was reviewed.
The plan was assessed on the basis of providing appropriate coverage over the Independence and reappointment internal control environment to provide the Committee with a balanced The Committee reviews the independence of the auditors when overview across the group, taking into account the level of risk and considering their reappointment following the year end close each previous coverage.
Additional areas of review were added to the plan year, and during the year.
The external auditor is required to rotate the as required where circumstances gave rise to an increased level of lead audit partner every five years.
The current lead auditor partner risk and any changes to the agreed audit plan were agreed by the began his tenure for the financial year ended 30 September 2012.
The Committee received an update from the Director of Ernst and Young LLP have been the companys auditors since its Audit and Risk at each meeting summarising the findings of the stock market listing in 2005 9 years.
During that time the external internal audits undertaken and the progress made against actions audit has not been formally tendered: however, the Committee will agreed from previous audits.
Detailed updates on specific areas are continue to regularly consider this in accordance with the audit tendering provided at the request of the Committee.
provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code and EU legislation.
I have regular contact with the external audit partner outside of Committee meetings and without the management of the business present.
Risk management The group has a policy regarding the provision of non-audit services The risk management process is reviewed annually by the Committee by the external auditors, based on common practice of a maximum to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk management across audit to non-audit fee ratio of 1:1, except in exceptional circumstances.
The risk management process is continually improving, in There will be a transition to this policy with the intention to implement particular in relation to embedding across new and developing areas for the financial year ending 27 September 2015.
In the meantime, of the business.
The Committee believe that the improvements will control over non-audit fees is exercised by ensuring non-audit continue to strengthen the way that the business understands and projects, where fees are expected to exceed 50,000, are subject to manages risk.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the key risks on the my prior approval and that of the Chief Financial Officer.
If non-audit corporate risk register at the time of each meeting.
A detailed report was fees on a certain project are expected to exceed 150,000, prior provided to the Committee from the Director of Audit and Risk, showing approval of the Audit Committee is required.
movements in major risks and an update on risk mitigation activity undertaken in relation to those risks.
A summary of the key risks and The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures of the companys uncertainties to which the business is exposed to can be found on auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, during the year and satisfied itself that pages 28 and 29. the independence and objectivity of the external auditors has not been affected by the non-audit work undertaken by them.
Non-audit fees are disclosed in note 7 to the report and accounts.
The Committee External audit has reviewed the recent EU legislation and response from the UK There are a number of areas that the Committee considers in relation regulatory bodies and considered the impact on the reappointment of to the external auditors: their performance in discharging the audit the external auditors.
The company had intended to tender the and interim review of the financial statements, their independence and external audit for the FY15 financial year end however given the EU objectivity, and their reappointment and remuneration.
regulatory changes and the uncertainty about how these will be adopted in the UK this has been deferred until the detail of the new regulations in the UK is clear.
