46 Governance Nomination Committee Main activities during the year The Committee considered and made recommendations to the board in respect of: The appointment of two Non-Executive Directors details of the recruitment process are is set out below : Review of the board and committee membership following the changes to the composition of the board: Succession planning for a successor for Senior Independent Director to Bob Ivell and my role as Chairman: and Review the findings of the board evaluation for more information see page 41.
Appointment of Directors There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board under which the Committee interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing board members Gerald Corbett or by an external search firm.
Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough time available to devote to the role Nomination Committee Chairman and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board is maintained.
When discussions relate to the appointment of Objective my successor, the Senior Independent Director chairs the Committee instead of me.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, To lead the process for board and senior management appointments as Chairman of the Committee, I make a proposal to the whole and to make recommendations to the board.
board, which has retained responsibility for all such appointments.
I also report on the outcome of Committee meetings to the board.
Responsibilities During the year, we welcomed Ian McHoul and Silvia Lagnada to the The Committee is responsible for considering and recommending to board.
Michael Shallow also stepped down from the board.
the board candidates who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for other senior Appointment processes management roles, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the company and on the board and to ensure Non-Executive Director progressive refreshing of the board.
The recruitment procedure described above was undertaken during the year for the appointments of Ian McHoul and Silvia Lagnado.
The Nomination Committee appointed Spencer Stuart, which held no Membership and meetings other existing relations with the company, as the search consultancy, and the following process was undertaken: Number of Meetings Membership and Attendance Attended Held role profiles were prepared against which potential candidates were considered: Gerald Corbett Chairman 4 4 as Chairman, I interviewed an initial list of candidates, from which a Bob Ivell 4 4 shortlist of preferred candidates was selected: Ben Gordon 4 4 other Non-Executive and Executive board members interviewed the 1 shortlist of candidates and provided feedback to the Committee: Ian McHoul 3 3 2 the Committee considered these views in its deliberations before Michael Shallow 3 3 recommending a preferred candidate to the board: and Notes: the board approved the appointment as recommended.
Meetings attended by Ian McHoul subsequent to his appointment on 10 March 2014.
Meetings attended Michael Shallow up until his date of resignation on 1 July 2014.
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, Ben Succession planning Gordon, Bob Ivell and Ian McHoul and myself as Chairman.
The Chief Succession planning has been an area of focus of the Committee during Executive Officer also attends by invitation.
This has included the independence of longer standing members of The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year.
the board, in particular, Bob Ivell, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and also my own succession as Chairman.
Succession planning below board level is also important.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Nomination Committee continued 47 Diversity Board evaluation The Committee monitors diversity on behalf of the board.
At Britvic, Details of the review of the board and its committees, including this we see diversity as a wider topic than simply gender and the board committee and my effectiveness as Chairman, undertaken during the recommend to the company that, in order to achieve its future growth year can be found on page 41. aspirations, it should remain committed to building a pipeline of Having reviewed the results of the evaluation, the Committee has diverse talent and to regularly review its HR processes, including confirmed to the board that the present board and its committees recruitment and performance management frameworks.
continue to operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive I am pleased to say that we have a number of women in senior Directors remained independent in accordance with the Code and management roles and that we have been in a position to welcome a should stand for re-election or election in the case of Ian McHoul and further female director to the board during the year.
The directors Silvia Lagnado at the AGM.
view, however, remains that we do not feel in a position to publish a target of the percentage of women on the board.
Further details of the companys statistics on gender diversity may be found on page 8 of the Strategic Report.
making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable shopping 48 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable a stroll in the park Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information 49
