Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Governance 33 Corporate governance report Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee after almost 8 years service since he was first elected by shareholders.
The board would like to thank Michael for his significant contribution and support to the company during this time.
Silvia is a Non-Executive Director of NASDAQ-listed Sapient Corporation, a global marketing and consulting services company, headquartered in the US.
Silvia brings marketing and international experience to the board.
Your board is committed to remaining effective and recognises that to do so it must ensure that it has the right balance of skills, independence and knowledge of the company to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
I am delighted that both of the above appointments have further strengthened the skills, experience and diversity of the board by bringing in further manufacturing FMCG, financial, international and marketing expertise.
Further details on the boards succession planning activities, and the steps it is taking to develop its policy on diversity, are discussed in my Nomination Committee Report on page 47.
Dear Shareholder, Details of the directors biographies are set out on pages 34 and 35.
As I mentioned in my Chairmans Board evaluation statement earlier in this report, Evidence of the impact that the refreshing of skills on the board and its committees can been seen in the outputs of this years board this has been a year of significant evaluation, details of which are summarised on page 41. activity under the leadership of Simon Litherland, our Chief Fair, balanced and Executive Officer.
The board has understandable During the year the board reviewed the requirement for directors to been busy supporting the make a statement that they consider the annual report and accounts, business in ensuring that the taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
As part of this review, we received an early draft of the annual report to have appropriate structures are in enough time to review and comment.
The Audit Committee met to place to position the business to consider the criteria for a fair, balanced and understandable annual report and to review the processes underpinning the compilation and achieve its strategic plan.
assurance of the report, in relation to the financial and non-financial information.
The board then considered the annual report as a whole This includes ensuring good governance, managing risk and adding being mindful of the new UK reporting requirements to ensure value to our business.
As such, the board continues to be committed consistency between the narrative sections and the financial to high standards of corporate governance and supports the statements.
principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code published The boards statement on the report is outlined on page 76. in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The Corporate Governance Report which follows sets out the activities of the board and its committees and how we conduct our operations in line with the Codes provisions and other accepted principles of good corporate governance.
Gerald Corbett Changes to board composition Chairman As part of the succession plans I shared with you last year, we welcomed Ian McHoul and Silvia Lagnado as Non-Executive Directors 25 November 2014 to the board on 10 March and 2 June 2014, respectively.
Ian is the Chief Financial Officer of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, a FTSE 100-listed company, a position he has held since 2008.
Ian replaced Michael Shallow, who stepped down on 1 July 2014 as a
