Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued The audit and compliance implementation with the rotation of the audit partner.
assessing an appropriate time frame within forum ACIF has been established for The audit committees noted that the which to carry out a formal tender process.
remedies proposed by the UK Competition Investec Limited and its principal operating Commission may be affected by measures subsidiaries.
In the case of Investec plc, currently being considered at the EU level the audit and compliance implementation and accordingly will continue to keep forum was reconstituted as the prudential David Friedland developments in this area under review in audit and conduct committee PACC.
This Chairman, audit committees committee retained the responsibilities of an 11 June 2014 audit and compliance implementation forum while taking into account the additional DLC remuneration committee focus, following the implementation of the TwinPeaks model of regulation, on The report by the chairman of the DLC remuneration committee, including a conduct risk and consumer outcomes.
summary of the roles and responsibilities, is set out in the remuneration report TheACIF and PACC meetings are attended onpages 127 to 129. by key executives, heads of risk and control functions and the chairman of the audit Membership and attendance committees.
Non-executive directors have Attendance by members at remuneration committee meetings during the fi financial year an open invitation to attend.
ended 31 March 2014: The forums are key to enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated Number of Number of control environment of the group.
The meetings held meetings attended forums support and provide important Members during the year during the year insight to the audit committees.
Essentially, PKO Crosthwaite chairman 11 10 the forums act as a fi lter, enabling the audit OC Dickson 11 11 committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
B Fried 11 9 Sir David J Prosser 11 11 Support structures F Titi 11 4 Furthermore, audit sub-committees for OC Dickson was appointed acting chairman of the DLC remuneration committee with Investec plc and Investec Limited, and effect from 31 March 2013 and stepped down with effect from 8 December 2013. other regulated subsidiaries, have been B Fried was appointed to the DLC remuneration committee with effect from 3April 2013. established.
Reports on the risk and F Titi was appointed to the DLC remuneration committee with effect from control environment of all business units 18 September 2013. and principal operating subsidiaries are made to one of the audit sub-committees, Role and responsibilities DLC nominations with signifi cant issues being escalated to The NOMDAC is responsible for, amongst and directors affairs the audit committees.
Theseallow senior other things: managers of the business units, who do not committee NOMDAC Identifying and nominating the approval attend the main Investec plc and Investec of board candidates to fi ll board Limited audit committee meetings, to Introduction vacancies as and when they arise meet with the risk and control functions This report to the board and shareholders, and to provide input on the risk and Determining and evaluating on how the NOMDAC has discharged its the adequacy, effi ciency and control environment of the business units.
duties, has been prepared in accordance appropriateness of the corporate Members of the Investec plc and Investec with sound governance principles.
governance structure and practices Limited audit committees are entitled to ofthe group Background attend these meetings and, as a general 03 rule, at least one non-executive director The NOMDAC has combined the duties of Establishing and maintaining a board a nominations committee as well as that of directorship continuity and refreshment attends these meetings.
a directors affairs committee as required programme under section 64B of the South African Governance developments Regularly reviewing the structure, Banks Act.
The provisions of the UK Corporate size and composition including the Major operating subsidiaries in the skills, knowledge and experience of Governance Code, the UK Competition group are exempt from having their own the boards and board committees Commissions fi final decision published in nominations or directors affairs committee, compared with their current situations October 2013, including the transitional as the NOMDAC fulfi ls the duties for these and making recommendations to the arrangements contained therein, and the companies as well.
boards regarding any changes current proposals of the European Union The NOMDAC complies with all legal and Reviewing the succession plan of regarding putting the external audit contract regulatory requirements as necessary under the key positions in Investec Limited out to tender at least every 10years has both UK and South African legislation and and Investec plc and all their major been considered by the audit committees.
listings rules and corporate governance subsidiaries, in order to ensure that The audit committees have also considered principles.
an updated management succession the Financial Reporting Councils guidance planremains in place.
on aligning the timing of any re-tender The board has approved terms of reference for the NOMDAC which can be found on our website.
94 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Brown and Khumo Shuenyane Membership and attendance be appointed as independent Attendance by members at NOMDAC meetings during the fi financial year ended non-executive directors with effect 31 March 2014: from 8August2014, following the annual general meeting.
Number of Number of meetings held meetings attended Management succession Members during the year during the year The committee received a detailed presentation from the executive regarding F Titi chairman 6 6 senior management succession and the SE Abrahams 6 5 committee is satisfi ed that there is a formal GFO Alford 6 5 management succession plan in place.
Sir David J Prosser 6 6 TheNOMDAC will continue to focus on KXT Socikwa 6 4 ensuring that the management succession plan remains up to date.
PRS Thomas 6 6 Governance KXT Socikwa and SE Abrahams are non-executive directors of Investec Bank Limited, amajor subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represent its interest on this committee.
The committee considered changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and related governance executive appointments are made for Summary of conclusions developments including the Financial anexpected period of nine years reached and key Reporting Councils guidance on three times threeyears from the date recommendations made to the boardeffectiveness the director was fi first appointed.
board during the year under The committee monitors the induction Board succession review programme of new directors The committee continued to focus Board composition on ensuring that the board has the The committee ensures that the Reviewed the structure, size and appropriate balance of skills, experience, directors ongoing training and composition of the board and subsidiary independence and knowledge of development programme remains boards and the principal board the group.
The board agreed, on the relevant and appropriate committees and has carefully reviewed recommendation of the committee, to the balance of independent nonThe committee considered the implement a structured refreshment executives relating to executive directors independent status of board members programme so as to ensure that and made recommendations to we are recruiting new, independent As noted above, the committee theboard non-executive directors and retiring considered that it was appropriate to some of our longer serving nonincrease the number of independent The committee reviewed the expertise executive directors over a period of non-executive directors on the board of the company secretaries and made years.
Thecommittee retained the while ensuring that there is a suffi cient recommendations to the board.
services of Woodburn Mann and Zygos number of non-executive directors Partnership to assist in the board Board effectiveness with experience and knowledge of recruitment process.
Neither of these the business.
Accordingly, the board In 2013, the board commissioned a external search consultancies has any adopted an active programme of board effectiveness review conducted connections to the companies.
refreshing the board by an external independent facilitator, Professor Rob Goffee of the London In this regard: The committee continues to discuss Business School the 2013 Review.
the implications of Lord Davies Review Discussions have been concluded Professor Goffee has no connection Women on Boards, March 2011 03 with the group.
The detailed outcomes with two non-executive directors, i. e. George Alford and Peter of that review were disclosed in the The board acknowledges the value to previous integrated annual report Malungani, both of whom have be derived from bringing together on the successfully served on the board board individuals with a broad range of The 2014 Review of the boards for a period exceeding nine years, backgrounds, experience and outlooks.
effectiveness was accordingly not that they will not stand for reGender is recognised to be an important conducted by an external independent election at the August 2014 annual part of that diversity, and currently the facilitator and took the form of a general meeting board comprises three women detailed questionnaire and a series of structured interviews between individual Olivia Dickson has advised that she While non-executive appointments are directors and the joint chairmen the will not offer herself for re-election based on merit and overall suitability for 2014 Review.
All directors completed at the August 2014 annual general the role, the NOMDAC will be mindful the questionnaire and were interviewed meeting of the value of diversity as it progresses during the course of the 2014 Review the structured refreshment programme The board, on the recommendation described above of the NOMDAC and following regulatory approvals, resolved that The committee has recommended to Charles Jacobs, Lord Mallochthe board that going forward, nonInvestec integrated annual report 2014 95
