Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued annual report, and to ensure that the annual contracts and there are no employment corrective action is taken on matters raised fi financial statements are fair, balanced and contracts with managers for a term of more by Internal Audit.
Signifi cant risks are regularly understandable.
considered by the executive risk review forum ERRF and by the BRCC.
Material In undertaking this responsibility, Our management structure, incidents and losses and signifi cant breaches thedirectors are supported by an ongoing reporting lines and the division of of systems and controls are reported to the process for identifying, evaluating and responsibilities are built around BRCC and the audit committees.
Reports managing the key risks Investec faces a geographic, divisional and from the audit committees, BRCC and risk in preparing the fi financial and other functional network as depicted and control functions are reviewed at each information contained in this integrated onpage 55. board meeting.
This process was in place Each strategic business unit has a for the year under review and up to the management committee and is responsible date of approval of this integrated annual Confl ict of interest for implementing operational decisions, report and annual fi financial statements.
managing risk and aligning divisional Certain statutory duties with respect to The process is implemented by objectives with the group strategy and vision.
directors confl icts of interest are in force management and independently monitored under the UK Companies Act 2006 and The NOMDAC received a detailed for effectiveness by the audit, risk and other the South African Companies Act 2008, presentation from the executive regarding sub-committees of the board.
In accordance with these senior management succession and the Actsand the Articles of Association Articles Further information is provided on NOMDAC is satisfi ed that there is a formal of Investec plc and the Memorandum of pages 89 to 98. management succession plan in place.
Incorporation MOI of Investec Limited, TheNOMDAC will continue to focus on Our annual fi financial statements are the board may authorise any matter that ensuring that the management succession prepared on a going concern basis, taking otherwise may involve the directors breaching plan remains up to date.
into consideration: their duty to avoid confl icts of interest.
The Senior management succession plans board has adopted a procedure, as set The groups strategy and prevailing are also presented annually to the out in the Articles and MOI, that includes a market conditions and business bankingregulators.
requirement for directors to submit, in writing, environment disclosures detailing any actual or potential confl ict for consideration and, if considered Nature and complexity of our business Internal control appropriate, approval.
Risks we assume, and their Risks and controls are reviewed and management and mitigation monitored regularly for relevance and Internal fi financial controls Key business and control processes effectiveness.
The DLC board risk and inoperation capital committee BRCC and audit Internal fi financial controls are based on committees assist the board in this regard.
Credit rating and access to capital Sound risk management practices are Management is responsible for promoted by the group risk management Needs of all our stakeholders implementing internal fi financial controls, function, which is independent of ensuring that personnel are suitably Operational soundness operational management.
The board qualifi ed, that appropriate segregation recognises its responsibility for the overall exists between duties, and that there is Accounting policies adopted risk and control framework and for suitable independent review.
These areas reviewing its effectiveness.
Corporate governance practices are monitored by the board through the audit committees and are independently Internal control is designed to mitigate, Desire to provide relevant and assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
not eliminate, signifi cant risks faced.
cleardisclosures 03 It is recognised that such a system Processes are in place to monitor internal Operation of board committee provides reasonable, but not absolute, control effectiveness, identify and report supportstructures.
assurance against material error, omission, material breakdowns, and ensure that misstatement or loss.
This is achieved within timely and appropriate corrective action the group through a combination of risk is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Management and identifi cation, evaluation and monitoring Relations coordinate, review and comment processes, appropriate decision and on the monthly fi financial and regulatory succession planning oversight forums, and assurance and control reports, and facilitate the interim and annual functions such as group risk management, fi financial reporting process, including the Global business unit heads, geographic internal audit and compliance.
management and the heads of central and group service functions are appointed Internal Audit reports any control by executive management and endorsed recommendations to senior management, Directors dealings by the board, based on the skills and group risk management and the relevant experience deemed necessary to perform audit committee.
Appropriate processes, The remuneration report on pages the required function.
In general, managers including review by the audit committees 127 to 163, contains details of do not have fi xed-term employment support structures, ensure that timely Investec shares held by directors.
