Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance JSE listings requirements, regulatory Joint chairmens requirements in the countries in which we Sound corporate introduction operate, the UK Corporate Governance governance is Code the Code which was issued by implicit in our the UKs Financial Reporting Council in Dear shareholder 2010 and revised in September 2012, and values, culture, Introduction the King Code of Governance Principles processes, for South Africa King III.
Therefore, We are pleased to present the 2014 annual allstakeholders are assured that we are functions and corporate governance report which sets being managed ethically and in compliance out Investecs approach to corporate organisational with the latest legislation, regulations and governance and, more specifi cally, howwe structure best practices.
as joint chairmen ensure that wedischarge our duties of leading the board and The past year in focus ensuring the boards effectiveness in carrying out its role.
Composition of the board and boardrefreshment Our culture and values Sam Abrahams did not seek re-election Underpinning legislative, regulatory as a director at the 2013 annual general and best practice requirements are meeting and accordingly stepped Investecs values and philosophies, which down from the board and from the provide the framework against which we chair of the audit committees at the measure behaviour and practices so as conclusion of the 2013 annual general to assess the characteristics of good meeting.
Ourvalues require that Sam Abrahams as chair of the audit directors and employees act with integrity committees and conduct themselves to promote and The nominations and directors affairs maintaintrust.
committee NOMDAC continued to Sound corporate governance is therefore focus on ensuring that the board has the implicit in our values, culture, processes, appropriate balance of skills, experience, functions and organisational structure.
independence and knowledge of Structures are designed to ensure that our the group.
The board agreed, on the values remain embedded in all businesses recommendation of the NOMDAC, and processes.
We continually refi ne these toimplement a structured refreshment structures, and a written statement of programme so as to ensure that we values serves as our code of ethics.
are recruiting new independent nonexecutive directors and retiring some We operate under a dual listed company of our longer serving non-executive DLC structure, and consider the corporate directors over a period of years.
governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before In this regard, discussions have been adopting the appropriate rule for the group.
concluded with two non-executive directors, i. e. George Alford and All international business units operate in PeterMalungani, both of whom have accordance with the above determined successfully served on the board for a corporate governance requirements, period exceeding nine years, and will not inaddition to those of their jurisdiction, 03 stand for re-election at the August 2014 butwith clear adherence at all times to annual general meeting group values and culture.
Olivia Dickson has advised that she will Regulatory context not offer herself for re-election at the August 2014 annual general meeting The disclosure of our governance practices requires a description of the The board, on the recommendation of regulatory context that Investec, as a the NOMDAC and following regulatory DLC, operateswithin.
approvals, resolved that Charles Jacobs, Lord Malloch-Brown and The board, management and employees Khumo Shuenyane be appointed as of Investec are committed to complying independent non-executive directors with the disclosure and transparency rules with effect from 8August 2014, the day and listing rules of the United Kingdom following the annual general meeting.
Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited 82 Investec integrated annual report 2014
