Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly DLC board risk and to the board and the BRCC.
Theseinclude the DLC capital committee, ERRF, asset and capital committee liability committees, group credit committees, group market risk forum, group deal forum, operational risk committees forums and group legal risk forum.
BRCC The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Introduction Membership and attendance This report to the board and shareholders, on how the BRCC has discharged its Attendance by members at BRCC meetings during the fi financial year ended 31 March 2014: duties, has been prepared in accordance with sound governance principles.
Number of Number of Background meetings held meetings attended during the year during the year The BRCC is the appointed board committee to meet the requirements of Executive directors the UK and SA regulators for the board of directors of a bank.
S Koseff chairman 6 6 B Kantor managing director 6 5 The purpose of the BRCC is to determine, GR Burger group risk and fi finance director 6 5 under delegated authority from and as a sub-committee of the board, the categories Non-executive directors of risk, specifi c risk and the extent of such SE Abrahams 6 6 risks which the group on a consolidated B Fried 6 3 basis, and its banks on a solobasis, D Friedland 6 6 shouldundertake.
H Fukuda OBE 6 6 Role and responsibilities MP Malungani 6 4 The committee will ensure that: Sir David J Prosser 6 4 KXT Socikwa 6 4 All decisions of the board on risk PRS Thomas 6 6 management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored F Titi 6 6 throughout Investec KXT Socikwa and SE Abrahams are non-executive directors of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represent its interests on this committee.
The risk management structure is adequate, with suffi cient resources and Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
Material incidents and budget, and exceptions are reported to losses and signifi cant breaches of systems and controls are reported to the BRCC as well the board as the audit committees.
Exposure limits for market, counterparty For more information on the groups risk management processes, please refer to and credit risk are ratifi ed: liquidity and volumetwo.
operational risk are also monitored There is an ongoing process of risk and control identifi cation, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the basis of measuring risk 03 There is suffi cient capital in relation to existing and potential risks to the organisation.
Over the past year the committee has spent a considerable amount of time reviewing and monitoring matters relating to cybercrime and conduct risk across all geographies in which the group operates.
The BRCC defi fines the processes by which internal fi financial control, risk and capital management are assumed and monitored.
The Group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques from which the processes canbe built and monitored daily.
