Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued The following table indicates non-executive board representation on the board committees as at the date of this report: DLC social and Investec DLC ethics IndepenDLC Investec Limited remunDLC DLC commitMembers dent audit plc audit audit eration NOMDAC BRCC tee Sir David J Prosser joint chairman Yes F Titi joint chairman Yes Chair Chair GFO Alford senior independent director Yes CA Carolus Yes PKO Crosthwaite Yes Chair OC Dickson Yes B Fried No D Friedland Yes Chair Chair Chair H Fukuda OBE Yes MP Malungani No PRS Thomas Yes F Titi was appointed to the DLC remuneration committee with effect from 18 September 2013.
Audit committees This is my fi first report as audit committee chairman.
Having spent six months as an understudy External auditors from both the UK and Background to the former chairman, I have a good South Africa attend meetings.
In terms of Investecs DLC structure, understanding and appreciation of the role the board has mandated authority to The board recognises the important role that I need to play as the audit committee theInvestec plc audit committee and the of the audit committees as part of the risk chairman.
Investec Limited audit committee to be management and corporate governance the audit committees for those respective Introduction processes and procedures of the Investec companies and their subsidiaries with each group.
In this regard the audit committees The audit committee is an essential part having their own regulatory requirements have oversight of and monitor: of the groups governance framework to to meet.
A DLC audit committee which is which the board has delegated oversight Financial reporting process and risks the combined audit committee of Investec of the groups fi financial reporting, risk plc and Investec Limited has responsibility Fraud and IT risks as they relate to management, compliance, internal and to the board for matters common to both fi financial reporting external audit.
Investec plc and Investec Limited and, inparticular, the combined group annual The effectiveness of the groups This report provides an overview of the fi financial statements and results.
internal controls, internal audit and risk work of the committee and details how it management systems has discharged its duties over the year.
The audit committees comply with all legal and regulatory requirements as Following the annual cycle of work of the The statutory audit and group annual 03 necessary under both UK and South fi financial statements committees, we concluded that sound risk African legislation and listings rules, and management and internal controls have The independence of the statutory auditor.
apply the corporate governance principles been maintained during the year.
for audit committees as required by the At each audit committee meeting, the group The committees were satisfi ed that UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules chief executive offi cer, group managing the integrated annual report presents 7.1.
3R, the UKCorporate Governance director and group risk and fi finance director fairly and provides a fair, balanced and Code and KingIII.
provide an in-depth assessment of their understandable assessment of the groups current risk-related concerns and the fi financial position at 31 March 2014, and procedures introduced by management to theresults of its operations for the year control or mitigate these risks.
90 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Following the completion of all group audit In aggregate the audit committees meet committee meetings, a written report is 12 times per year.
The joint chairmen, chief provided to the next meeting of the board executive offi cer, managing director, fi finance of directors highlighting matters of which and risk director, heads of Compliance, the audit committee believes the board IT, Operational Risk, Internal Audit and should be aware.
representatives of the external auditors attend meetings by invitation.
All responsibilities are covered in the audit committees terms of reference.
A comprehensive meeting pack is prepared with written reports received from the The board has approved terms of external auditors and each of the above reference for the audit committees functions.
They present on the signifi cant which can be found on our website.
matters included in their reports.
The audit committees approve the annual The chairman of the audit committees internal audit plan.
The heads of Internal regularly meet with the heads of Audit for both Investec plc and Investec Internal Audit as well as the lead Limited have free access to the chairman of external audit partners outside formal the audit committees or any member of the committeemeetings.
audit committees and they attend all audit committee meetings by invitation.
At the fi final results audit committee meetings, the external auditors and Membership and attendance internal auditors meet separately with the committee members to enable them to The audit committees are comprised have a frank and open debate without the entirely of independent non-executive executives being present.
directors who must meet predetermined skills, competency and experience requirements.
Attendance by members at audit committee meetings during the fi financial year ended 31 March 2014: Investec plc audit Investec Limited audit DLC audit committee committee committee Number of Number of Number of Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Members meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended D Friedland chairman 4 4 4 4 4 4 SE Abrahams 4 2 4 1 4 1 GFO Alford 4 4 4 4 4 4 OC Dickson 4 4 4 4 4 4 PRS Thomas 4 4 4 4 4 4 CB Tshili 4 4 n a n a 4 4 D Friedland was appointed as chairman of the audit committees with effect from 8 August 2013.
03 SE Abrahams stepped down from the audit committees with effect from 8 August 2013, and was therefore only eligible to attend meetings held prior to 8 August 2013.
CB Tshili is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on thiscommittee.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 91 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued With the ever increasing threat posed independence of both Ernst & Young and Summary of conclusions by cybercrime, information security has the audit team, are adequate safeguards reached by the audit become a regular focus for the committees.
to ensure that the audit process is both committees for the year objective and effective.
ended31 March 2014 The audit committees recommended Non-audit services theadoption of the integrated annual report The individual and combined audit to theboard.
committees, to the best of our knowledge The committees have adopted a policy and belief, are satisfi ed that: on the engagement of the external auditor In this regard the audit committees: to provide non-audit services.
This policy, The fi finance functions of both Investec designated to safeguard auditor objectivity Considered all facts and risks that plc and its subsidiaries and Investec and independence, includes guidelines on may impact on the integrity of the Limited and its subsidiaries are permitted and non-permitted services and integrated annual report adequately skilled, resourced and on services requiring specifi c approval by experienced Reviewed and commented on the the committees.
The group fi finance director, GR Burger, annual fi financial statements included in The committees review whether the has the appropriate expertise and the integrated annual report level of non-audit fees could impact the experience to meet the responsibilities Reviewed the disclosure of sustainability independence of the auditors.
This is of the position issues in the integrated annual report monitored by reference to the level of fees The groups internal fi financial controls are to ensure they are reliable and do not paid for services, excluding services which effective and all identifi ed weaknesses in confl ict with the fi financial information are required to be provided by the external fi financial control are rectifi ed auditors due to their offi ce, against the fees Engaged Grant Thornton to verify all paid for the audit of the group.
The external auditors of both Investec the environmental data included in the plc and Investec Limited are, and report.
None of the audit fi rms engaged For further details on non-audit remain, independent in the groups external audit were services see note 6 on page 46 considered for the project.
The external auditors perform their functions with the appropriate expertise, The board subsequently approved the Internal Audit competence and experience.
integrated annual report, including the The committees are responsible for annual fi financial statements, which will In fulfi lling our duties, the audit committees monitoring and reviewing the scope and have: be tabled for approval at the forthcoming the effectiveness of the Internal Audit annual general meeting.
Both the Investec Limited and Considered whether the integrated Investec plc heads of Internal Audit have a annual report taken as a whole was External auditors fair, balanced and understandable and direct reporting line to the chairman of the Appointment and independence provided the information necessary audit committees and they regularly meet for stakeholders to assess the groups During 2014, the committees evaluated to discuss progress with the audit plans, performance the effectiveness of the external auditors and setting annual objectives.
Internal Ernst& Young and, following due Audit was subject to a quality assurance Reviewed and discussed with the consideration, make a recommendation to review during the fi financial year.
The review, external auditors material areas in which shareholders that they be reappointed for confi rming that we have an effective audit signifi cant judgements were applied the year ending 31 March 2015. function, identifi ed areas for improving Reviewed the Internal Audit function effi ciency and streamlining the audit The audit partner responsible for the including the process for evaluating process.
group audit is required to rotate every fi five the control environment, approved years.
The incumbent lead audit partner Risks addressed during the the internal audit plan and considered for Ernst & Young in the UK, AngusGrant, internal audit reports year under review 03 has completed his fi fifth year and, as such, Detailed below are certain of the key areas Reviewed and considered rotates off the audit this year.
the committees focused on: representations by management on thegoing concern statement for the Having considered the experience of Monitoring of credit quality and the group and recommended the adoption Andy Bates, the audit partner proposed appropriateness of the allowance for of the going concern concept to to replace Angus, as well as the robust credit losses.
theboard handover process, the committees recommended to the board that Andy be We discussed with management and Reviewed the risk assessment process appointed as the designated lead audit the auditors the specifi c and collective and the manner in which signifi cant partner for the 2015 fi financial year.
loan provision process, and considered business risks are managed the reasonableness of the allowance Although Ernst & Young has been the Recommended to the board the relative to the quality of the book and groups auditors since listing on the London reappointment of our external auditors.
related collateral Stock Exchange in 2002, we believe that See External auditors below.
partner rotation, limitations on non-audit Impairment assessments for goodwill and intangibles services and the confi rmation of the 92 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued We discussed with management the Inaccurate or improper accounting Adherence to key regulatory issues methodology and assumptions used and fi financial reporting of large or facing the group for assessing the valuation of goodwill complex transactions and the impact of Assessing the internal control andintangibles implementing IFRS 10, 11 and 12. weaknesses identifi ed by the Risk of inappropriate revenue Discussions were held with assurance providers and ensuring recognition, valuation of fi financial management and the external auditors appropriate steps are taken within instruments, unlisted investments with regard to large and complex prescribed and specifi ed time and embedded derivatives including transactions to ensure compliance with limits to mitigate and remedy such the impact of the implementation of the Accounting Standards weaknesses.
The year under The auditors provided detailed reporting in Unlisted investments often require a review has seen a signifi cant escalation respect of these key areas.
large degree of subjectivity surrounding in attempted IT fraud throughout the the various inputs to their valuations.
Considerable effort and time have been devoted by management The implementation of IFRS 13 for the toensure that IT controls are robust fi first time this year presented additional and appropriate solutions are deployed challenges.
to protect the group from increased threatlevels We discussed with management the assumptions used in the valuations Other of unlisted investments, including The adequacy and appropriateness embedded derivatives.
of liquidity management throughout the groups operations We confi rmed compliance with IFRS 13 Audit committees structure The fl ow chart below depicts the Investec group audit committees structure and ambit of activities.
Audit committees of DLC audit committees Investec plc and Investec Limited External auditors Internal auditors Finance Audit sub-committees Planning budget Planning budget Distil only major issues to Accounting policies Confl ict independence Resources Annual fi financial statements auditcommittees Attest and non-attest fees Annual audit plan Half-year results Audit compliance Reports to regulators Adequacy of staffi ng Year-end results implementation forum Management letter complement Production of audited annual High level reports Quality of earnings overs and Succession planning fi financial statements of unders schedule Charter companies and subsidiaries Information technology 03 Appointment reappointment Execution Accounting for one-off Status Reporting transactions Major risks, including Compliance Special ad hoc work Accounting updates and cybercrime Planning budget Review of high level reports conventions IFRS Change control Resources Internal controls Basel Capacity management High level reporting of Sustainability report Reconciliations Security and fraud awareness non-compliance Regulatory reports Staffi ng Monitoring of special projects Operational risk Representation letters Projects Regulatory matters Fundamental internal controls Governance Conduct risk Fraud and loss statistics Prudential audit and conduct Insurance coverage committee Current risk review Tax Corporate governance Distil only major issues to the Chief executive offi cer High level only South African Banks Act Investec plc audit committee Managing director requirements Financial director Disaster recovery and business continuity Key staff issues Investec integrated annual report 2014 93
