Our Governance Committee Reports Report of the Audit Committee Responding to change: Audit tender and integration of Fusion IP The main activities of the Committee Audit Committee responsibilities The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial during 2014 can be seen by referring statements of the Group, and reviews all proposed annual and to the summary agenda items overleaf.
half-yearly results announcements to be made by the Group with In addition to the normal cycle of consideration being given to any significant financial reporting events, the Committee undertook two judgements contained in them.
The Committee also advises the Board on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, important additional activities.
The first taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and of these was the management of the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess audit tender that was concluded in the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also considers internal controls, compliance April 2014, the second was monitoring with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing, the integration of Fusion IP plc during Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct the year following its acquisition by the Authority, and also reviews any proposed change in accounting Group during the first quarter of 2014. policies and any recommendations from the Groups Auditor regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of Jonathan Brooks Chairman of the Audit Committee resources within the Groups finance function.
A full copy of the Committees Terms of Reference is available from the Companys website at www.
Committee membership Between January 2014 and the AGM, the Committee comprised three independent non-executive directors, with myself as Chair.
As the Chair of the Committee, I am deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience being a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and having held senior financial positions in my career.
For the first half of 2014, the other two members of the Committee were Mike Humphrey, who is the Senior Independent Director, and Francis Carpenter.
At the AGM in May, Francis Carpenter stood down and two new independent directors were appointed to the Audit Committee: Doug Liversidge, who had previously been the Chairman of Fusion IP plc, which the Group acquired in the first quarter of the year, and Professor Lynn Gladden, CBE, who is Pro-Vice Chancellor of Research at Cambridge University.
The Committee met four times during the year, with the first two meetings comprising three independent Non-executive Directors and the third and fourth meetings comprising four independent Non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, and the external auditor were invited to attend all of the meetings.
At the end of each of the meetings, the Committee met with the auditor without any members of the executive management team being present.
com 75 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Report of the Audit Committee continued Activities during the year The main activities of the Committee during 2014 can be seen by Summary agendas for Audit committee referring to the summary agenda items on the right.
In addition meetings in 2014 to the normal cycle of events, the Committee undertook two important additional activities.
The first of these was the February management of the audit tender that was concluded in April 2014, and the second was monitoring the integration of Fusion IP Full year financial statements and discussions with auditor plc during the year following its acquisition by the Group in the Fair, balanced and understandable review of Annual Report first quarter of 2014.
Audit committee effectiveness review In terms of the audit tender, three firms were invited to tender, Going concern review including the incumbent firm, with KPMG LLP emerging as the Consideration of the need for a formal internal audit function successful firm to be appointed following the Groups AGM in Audit tender process May 2014.
The Committee was particularly impressed by the Review of Audit Committee annual agenda proposed team, their grasp of the Groups business and the expertise it was felt they could offer both in terms of the Groups May international expansion and also the development of its overall Submission by management of Fusion integration plans systems of control as it grows in complexity.
Review of Risk Register With respect to the integration of Fusion IP plc, the management Planning of internal audit projects team was asked to prepare a thorough list of integration tasks MLRO Compliance officer reports on regulated businesses which was reviewed and approved by the Committee and then External review of FCA-authorised businesses used to monitor progress at each of its subsequent meetings Review of Group Treasury Policy in 2014.
Half year results planning with new audit firm The other activities undertaken by the Committee were the normal August recurring items, the most important of which are noted below.
Half year financial statements and review with auditor Valuation of assets and liabilities Fusion integration progress report This represents the key audit risk for the Group and at Review of anti-bribery policy and procedures each reporting event, the Audit Committee discusses with management and the auditor the approach that has been taken Cyber-security and IT Data update in assessing all key estimates.
Review of D&O and PI insurances The most material area of judgement in the financial statements October relates to the valuation of the unquoted equity investments, which at year end had a carrying value of 207.7m.
The Review of auditors 2014 audit planning document Committee satisfied itself that the portfolio valuations were Fusion integration progress report materially correct after considering findings from the year end Audit committees terms of reference: annual review valuations meeting, which was attended by KPMG, receiving Whistleblowing policy: annual review of process periodic presentational updates from the sector heads and Investment and divestment policy: annual review business building team members, and receiving regular written Related party transaction policy review reports on the Groups portfolio companies.
Review of risk register and risk appetite At year end the fair value of the Groups intangible assets was Cyber security update 16.5m and goodwill was 57.1m.
The majority of these balances Group KPI review arose from the acquisition of Fusion IP in 2014.
The goodwill Discussion on adoption of FRS 101 or 102 for subsidiary companies balance is tested annually for impairment.
The intangible assets are reviewed for impairment indicators and impairment tests are performed if any indicators are noted.
During the year the Committee reviewed a report from the finance team on the The change of auditor in 2014 was also very helpful in allowing accounting treatment adopted for the acquisition of Fusion IP, and a fresh pair of eyes to examine the methodologies for valuations considered the estimates and assumptions made in determining and there has been a very thorough testing of management the initial fair values of the identified intangible assets and goodwill, assumptions on the valuation of a very broad range of the as well as those assumptions and models used for determining if Groups investments.
any impairment indicators were present at year end.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 76 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Committee Reports Our Governance Committee Reports Regulatory Compliance Risk and internal controls Ensuring compliance for FCA regulated businesses also The key elements of the Groups internal control framework and represents an important control risk from the perspective of the procedures are set out on pages 56 and 57.
The principal risks Audit Committee.
An annual review is conducted internally to the Group faces are set out on pages 36 to 39.
Annually, the monitor compliance and an external evaluation is also conducted Audit Committee and the full Board considers the Group risk by a specialist firm.
During the review in 2014, no particular issues register and related management controls.
In addition, during the were identified.
year the Committee considered the Boards risk appetite towards certain of its key strategic priorities for the year.
Review of Annual Report and Accounts and HalfThroughout this process we: yearly Report The Committee carried out a thorough review of the Groups Give consideration to whether areas should be looked 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and its 2014 Half-yearly Report at more closely through internal audit or specific control resulting in the recommendation of both for approval by the reviews: Board.
In carrying out its review, the Committee gave particular Identify areas where enhancement of internal controls is consideration to whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, was required: and fair, balanced and understandable, concluding that it was.
It did Agree action plans to deliver the necessary or recommended this primarily through consideration of the reporting of the Groups enhancements.
business model and strategy, the competitive landscape in which it operates, the significant risks it faces, the progress made against its There is a formal whistleblowing policy which has been strategic objectives and the progress made by, and changes in fair communicated to employees.
This policy provides information value of, its portfolio companies during the year.
on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is Going Concern satisfied that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees Annually, the Committee considers the going concern principle to make representations in confidence to the Group and for on which the financial statements are prepared and also appropriate and proportionate investigations.
considers and approves the impairment review of goodwill prepared by management.
As a business which seeks to Internal audit establish and invest in new ventures as well as support existing The Group does not maintain a separate internal audit function.
investments with further capital, the business model is currently This is principally due to the size of the Group where close inherently cash consuming.
Following the placing which took control over operations is exercised by a small number of place at the start of 2014, the Group has sufficient cash reserves executives.
The Audit Committee currently considers the to continue to provide capital to its existing portfolio and to outsourced provision of internal audit work as both more create and fund new businesses at a similar rate to previous years efficient and cost-effective than having its own central internal for approximately two years assuming broadly similar levels of audit team.
However, the Audit Committee does review the need net operating expenditure and portfolio realisations.
An inability to have its own separate internal audit function each year.
to raise future funds may require the Group to modify its level of The Audit Committee has developed a framework to gain capital deployment into the portfolio or to more actively seek to assurance over the system of internal financial and operational realise one or more portfolio company holdings but these would controls.
This comprises: not in themselves threaten the viability of the overall business.
A risk assessment performed by operational management and During 2015, the Committee will have a role in supporting the the Board to identify key areas for assurance.
Groups compliance with the revised UK Corporate Governance An annual assessment by the Audit Committee of the whole Code, which applies to the Group for the 2015 financial year.
system of internal financial and operational controls.
Amongst other things, the Board will be required to make a statement regarding the Groups longer-term viability and the The Audit Committee considers that a key area of risk in the Committee will work with management to ensure that there is a business lies in the Groups investment and divestment policies and robust process in place to support the statement to be made by processes and during 2013 undertook a review of these processes the Board.
Similarly, the Committee will work with management which it updated in 2014.
Following the acquisition of Fusion IP to ensure that the current processes underpinning its oversight and the divisionalisation of the Group into sector-focused teams, of internal controls provide appropriate support for the required these policies and processes have been further formalised.
Board statement on the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls.
com 77 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Report of the Audit Committee continued Auditor Independence External audit A formal statement of independence is received from the auditor The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent each year and the Board and the Audit Committee are satisfied on appropriate risk identification.
In October, the Committee that the independence of the new auditor, appointed in May discussed the Auditors audit plan for 2014.
This included a 2014, has been maintained.
summary of the proposed audit scope and a summary of what the Auditor considered to be the most significant financial Auditor Effectiveness reporting risks facing the Group together with the Auditors The Committee intends to complete its formal assessment of proposed audit approach to these significant risk areas.
The the effectiveness of the Groups new external auditor following main areas of audit focus for the year were the valuation of the completion of the 2014 audit cycle and will report on this investments in portfolio companies, with particular focus on assessment in the 2015 annual report.
Based on the Committees unquoted companies, including Oxford Nanopore Technologies interactions with the auditor to date, including the speed with Limited, the valuation of intangible assets and goodwill, notably which the auditor has understood the Groups business model following the acquisition of Fusion IP and ensuring there had and risks, the quality and scope of their audit planning, their been regulatory compliance for those parts of the business approach to asset valuation of the companies in which the covered by FCA regulations.
Group invests, and the half-yearly report review process, it is expected that the Committee will conclude that the auditor has Appointment and Independence been effective.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditor and on its remuneration both for audit I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the and non-audit work and discusses the nature, scope and results Committees work.
of the audit with the external auditor.
The Committee keeps under review the cost-effectiveness and the independence and Jonathan Brooks objectivity of the external auditor.
Controls in place to ensure this Chairman of the Audit Committee include monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the 9 March 2015 audit, implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, and a review of the scope of the audit and fee and performance of the external auditor.
As part of this work, as described above, the Committee undertook a tender process for the Groups audit during 2014 that resulted in the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor.
Non-Audit Work The Audit Committee approves all fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work.
During 2013 the previous auditor, BDO LLP, did perform some non-audit work which mainly consisted of tax compliance work for subsidiaries of the Group, as well some other statutory filing work.
In early 2014 BDO LLP carried out financial due diligence on Fusion IP in connection with its acquisition by the Group and also acted as reporting accountants in connection with the Groups placing.
Since its appointment as the Groups Auditor, KPMG LLP has not undertaken any non-audit work, the Committee having preferred to engage other firms to perform tax advisory work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the Auditor is not compromised.
Where appropriate, the Committee may sanction the use of KPMG LLP for non-audit services in accordance with the Groups non-audit services policy.
An analysis of audit and non-audit fees is provided in note 6 to the financial statements on page 100.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 78 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Committee Reports
