Corporate Governance A year of progress: evolving our organisational structure 2014 has been a busy year for IP Group Compliance with the UK Corporate with its UK operations seeing significant Governance Code The Directors are committed to a high standard of corporate developments and progress being made governance and to compliance with the best practice of the UK in its nascent US operations.
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The version of the Code applicable to the twelve months ended 31 December 2014 The Board remains focused on the is that issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September execution of the Groups strategy, 2012, and the Directors consider that the Company has been in working with its partners to compliance with all the provisions set out in that edition of the Code.
The Code has been further revised in September 2014 for develop outstanding intellectual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 and property-based businesses, and, in the Directors are working towards reporting compliance with its doing so, it continues to recognise provisions in next years report.
the importance of a strong focus on Further explanation as to how the provisions set out in the Code corporate governance.
Corporate have been applied by the Company is set out in the following governance at IP Group is more statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Committee Report and the Strategic Report.
than just compliance with rules and regulations.
It is an integral part of all The Board of our activities, especially those of the Role and responsibilities of the Board Board and its committees.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group as a whole, providing entrepreneurial The Board is accountable to the Companys leadership within a framework of controls for assessing and shareholders for good governance and this report, managing risk: defining, challenging and interrogating the together with the Reports of the Remuneration, Groups strategic aims and direction: maintaining the policy Nomination and Audit Committees of the Board and decision-making framework in which such strategic aims describes our detailed approach to corporate are implemented: ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet strategic aims: monitoring governance and further information on the key performance against key financial and non-financial indicators: developments in these areas during the year.
succession planning: overseeing the system of risk management: The Board looks forward to being able to discuss setting values and standards in governance matters and these matters with our shareholders at the Groups monitoring policies and performance on corporate social forthcoming AGM or indeed at any other point responsibility.
The Directors are also responsible for promoting during the year.
the long-term success of the Group, taking into account the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders including Dr Bruce Smith Chairman employees, suppliers, customers, partners, the community, the environment and society: for ensuring that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met: and in maintaining a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
All Directors are equally accountable to the Companys shareholders for the proper stewardship of its affairs and the long-term success of the Group.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 48 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Overview Our Governance Overview Nomination Committee Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are directly responsible for running the business operations, and developing and implementing strategy, and the Non-executive Chief Executive Directors are responsible for constructively challenging and contributing to proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance of management, determining levels of remuneration and for succession planning for the Executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors must also satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises control over the performance of the Group by Senior agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring performance Management against those targets.
The Board has overall responsibility for Team the Groups system of internal controls and risk management, as described on pages 56 and 57.
Any decisions made by the Board on policies and strategy to be adopted by the Group, or changes to current policies and strategy, are made following presentations by the Executive Directors and a detailed process of review and challenge by the Board.
Once made, the Executive Directors are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
In addition to the Executive Committee, the Board delegates Except for a formal schedule of matters, which are reserved for specific responsibilities to certain additional committees decision and approval by the Board, the Board has delegated the that assist the Board in carrying out its functions and ensure day-to-day management of the Groups operations to a newly independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
constituted in June 2014 Executive Committee comprising The three principal Board Committees Audit, Remuneration and the Chief Executive Officer, the other Executive Directors and Nomination play an essential role in supporting the Board in three members of the senior management team: the Groups fulfilling its responsibilities and ensuring that the highest standards Director of Strategy, the Groups Head of Partnerships and the of corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group.
Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The schedule Each committee has its own terms of reference which set out of matters reserved for Board decision and approval are those the specific matters for which delegated authority has been given significant to the Group as a whole due to their strategic, financial by the Board.
The current terms of reference for each of the or reputational implications.
This schedule was reviewed in detail Committees, which were updated in 2014, are fully compliant in 2014 and supplemented as the Board considered appropriate, with the provisions of the Code and reflect best practice, were with a final amended schedule being adopted by the Board in reviewed by the relevant committee throughout the year and no August 2014.
This schedule includes, without limitation, those amendments were considered necessary.
These will continue to matters set out in the box overleaf and the full schedule can be be reviewed annually and updated where necessary.
All of these found within the Corporate Governance section of the Groups are available on request from the Company Secretary or within website at www.
The terms of reference for the the Corporate Governance section of the Groups website at Executive Committee were considered carefully by the Board, www.
alongside the matters reserved for Board decision and approval, to ensure that they worked seamlessly together without overlap.
com 49 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Corporate Governance continued Matters Reserved Approval of the annual report and accounts and half-year results for the Board statement, accounting policies and procedures or any matter having a material impact on future financial performance of the Group.
Strategic acquisitions or disposals by the Group.
Major portfolio capital allocation decisions, being those in excess of 5m per investment.
The entry into by the Group of strategic partnerships and collaborations with universities and other research institutions.
Major disposals from the Groups portfolio.
Approval and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and objectives.
Approval of the annual budget.
Considering and, where appropriate, approving Directors conflicts of interest.
Approving Board appointments and removals and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Approval, subject to shareholder approval, of the appointment and remuneration of the auditors.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders governed by the FSAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Rules or Transparency Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Changes to the Groups capital structure, the issue of any securities and material borrowing of the Group.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Available from the Company Major changes in employee share schemes.
Secretary or on our Material borrowings by the Group.
com Board Committees The terms of reference of each Committee establish its responsibilities and are available from the Company Secretary and on our corporate website: www.
Executive Day-to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive Committee, which Committee operates under agreed terms of reference.
These are available from the Company Secretary and on our corporate website: www.
On 23 April 2014, Charles Winward stepped down from the Board size and composition Board as an Executive Director to pursue other opportunities: As at 31 December 2014, there were nine Directors on the Board: and the Chairman, four Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
The biographies of all of these Directors are provided On 01 July 2014, Francis Carpenter stepped down as a on pages 46 and 47.
During the year, there were a number of Non-executive Director, following completion of his second changes to the Board as follows: three-year term of office.
Professor Lynn Gladden CBE joined the Board as a In addition, on 29 October 2014, Dr Bruce Smith announced Non-executive Director with effect from 26 March 2014: his intention to step down from his position as Chairman of the Board and Director of the Company once a suitably qualified and Following successful completion of the acquisition by the experienced successor had been appointed.
Group of Fusion IP plc Fusion IP in March 2014, David Baynes, previously Fusion IPs CEO, joined the Board as an Executive Director of the Company and Doug Liversidge, previously Fusion IPs Chairman, joined the Board as an additional Non-executive Director.
In April 2014, David Baynes was then appointed as Chief Operating Officer of the Company: IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 50 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Overview Our Governance Overview In light of all of these changes, the Nomination Committee and set either Board or Group-wide targets at this stage and prefers the Board undertook a review of the size and composition of to continue to consider all aspects of diversity including gender the current Board, building on recent work by the Nomination when assessing the overall Board composition and in making Committee on succession planning.
The conclusion of this new appointments as aforementioned.
process was that the Nomination Committee recommended Although it does not have a target in relation to the number to the Board that Mike Humphrey, the Groups current Senior of women on the Board, the Company currently has one Independent Director, be appointed as Chairman with effect from female director on its Board and will aim to maintain female 24 March 2015, with Dr Smith stepping down from the Board on representation on the Board at least at this current level and the same date.
In addition, given the vacancy that will be left by Mr give due consideration to increasing the level when making the Humphrey, the Nomination Committee will seek to recommend at anticipated addition s to the Board through 2015.
In addition, least one additional non-executive director for appointment during the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee include a 2015.
Further detail on the process undertaken by the Nomination requirement for the Nomination Committee to consider diversity, Committee in identifying a successor Chairman for the Group, including gender, in evaluating the composition of the Board and including the identity of the third party executive search consultant in identifying suitable candidates for Board appointments.
engaged to assist in this process, is set out on pages 55 and 56.
The Groups commitment to diversity at the senior management An extract of the Groups Policy relating to the terms of level is also very strong and it actively works to increase the appointment and the remuneration of both executive and nonnumber of women in leadership positions within the Group.
executive directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration A breakdown of employee diversity showing the number Report on pages 60 to 63. of persons who were Directors of the Company and senior In accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit themselves managers at the date of this report can be found on page 41. for annual re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Non-executive Directors Meeting of the Company to be held on 12 May 2015.
The The Non-executive Directors provide a wide range of skills and Board recommends to shareholders the reappointment of all experience to the Group.
They bring their own senior level of Directors retiring at the meeting and offering themselves for experience in each of their own fields, robust opinions and an re-election on the basis that the annual Board evaluation and independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, individual performance reviews demonstrated that they are all risk and people through their contribution and are well placed effective directors of the Company and continue to display the to constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of appropriate level of commitment in their respective roles.
New management at Board and Committee meetings.
The Code directors may be appointed by the Board but their appointment sets out the circumstances that should be relevant to the is subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Board in determining whether each non-executive director Meeting after their appointment.
The Board considers non-executive director Diversity independence on an annual basis as part of each non-executive The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains directors performance evaluation.
Having undertaken this review, talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further and with due regard to provision B.
1.1 of the Code, the Board has enhance the success of the Company.
In that culture, diversity concluded this year that all of the Non-executive Directors are across a range of criteria is valued.
The Board recognises considered by the Board to be independent of management and that diversity, in all its aspects, is key for introducing different free of any relationship or circumstance which could materially perspectives into board debate and decision making.
A genuinely influence or interfere with, or affect, or appear to affect, the diverse board comprises individuals with a range of personal exercise of their independent judgement.
attributes, perspectives, skills, knowledge, experiences and Since 2009, the Boards policy has been to prohibit personal backgrounds, as well as representing differences in nationality, investments by the non-executive directors in any of the Groups race and gender.
portfolio companies, whether new or existing.
None of the The Board agrees that gender remains an important aspect in Non-executive Directors presenting themselves for election or creating an optimal board in terms of balance and composition.
re-election at the AGM in 2015 will have holdings in any of the In identifying suitable candidates for anticipated Board Groups portfolio companies.
appointments during 2015, the Nomination Committee will have Non-executive directors are required to obtain the approval of due regard to the benefits of diversity and seek candidates from the Chairman before taking on any further appointments and different genders and a range of backgrounds.
It will, however, the Chairman requires the approval of the Board before adding remain the Boards policy to make any new appointments based to his commitments.
In all cases, the directors must ensure on merit against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee that their external appointments do not involve excessive time gave due consideration through the year as to whether to set commitment or cause a conflict of interest.
a target in relation to the number of women on the Board but, whilst it endorses Lord Davies recommendations, it did not consider it appropriate nor in the best interests of the Group to Stock Code: IPO www.
com 51 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Corporate Governance continued The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board support Dr Bruce Smith is the current Chairman.
The division of The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive that Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and Officer is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed regulations are complied with and that the Board is advised on by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership governance matters and relevant regulatory matters.
All directors and conduct of the Board, the conduct of the Groups affairs have access to the impartial advice and services of the Company and strategy and for ensuring effective communication with Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure for directors to take shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the full and effective independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In contribution of non-executive directors at Board and Committee accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors meetings, ensures that they are kept well informed and fosters have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to a constructive relationship between the executive directors and the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as non-executive directors.
The Chairman also ensures that the a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any membership of the Board is appropriate to the needs of the coverage where a director is proved to have acted fraudulently business and that the Board Committees carry out their duties, or dishonestly.
A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection including reporting back to the Board following their meetings, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has also either orally or in writing, at the next Board meeting depending arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action on its proximity to the meeting of the relevant committee.
against its directors and officers.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to lead the delivery Board meetings and decisions of the strategy and the executive management of the Group The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an and its operating businesses.
He is responsible, amongst other ad hoc basis, as required by business need.
The Board had things, for the development and implementation of strategy and seven scheduled Board meetings in 2014.
In addition to these processes which enable the Group to meet the requirements scheduled Board meetings, the Board also had a day together in of shareholders, for delivering the operating plans and budgets June 2014 devoted entirely to the Groups strategic objectives.
for the Groups businesses, monitoring business performance This provided an opportunity for all the Directors, and particularly against key performance indicators KPIs, and reporting on these the Non-executive Directors, to ensure the Groups strategy is on to the Board, and for providing the appropriate environment to course: to discuss medium and longer term strategic objectives, recruit, engage, retain and develop the high quality personnel and the key drivers underpinning these: to review the Groups needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
KPIs: to analyse and challenge the Groups objectives: and to review the Groups risk framework and risk appetite, including Senior Independent Director considering the major risks facing the Group and its strategy Mike Humphrey was the Senior Independent Director throughout and how to mitigate and or monitor the same.
A key responsibility of the Senior Independent Director is Chairman and the Non-executive Directors met without the to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel presence of the Executive Directors twice during the year.
it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director The schedule of Board and Committee meetings each year is, so serves as an intermediary between the rest of the Board and far as is possible, determined before the commencement of that the Chairman, where necessary, and takes the lead when the year and all Directors or, if appropriate, all Committee members Non-executive Directors assess the Chairmans performance and are expected to attend each meeting.
Supplementary meetings when the appointment of a new Chairman is considered other of the Board and or the Committees are held as and when than where the Senior Independent Director himself or herself necessary.
In advance of each scheduled meeting, each member wishes to be considered for the role, which was the case with Mr of the Board receives detailed Board packs, which include an Humphrey see pages 55 and 56 for further details in this regard.
agenda based upon the schedule of matters reserved for its Further, the Senior Independent Director will lead the Board in approval along with appropriate reports and briefing papers.
their deliberations on any matters on which the Chairman is If a director is unable to attend a meeting due to exceptional conflicted.
circumstances, he or she will still receive the supporting papers and will usually discuss any matters he or she wishes In light of Mr Humphreys appointment to the role of Chairman to raise with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The with effect from 24 March 2015, the Board has approved the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and recommendation of the Nomination Committee for Doug Company Secretary work together to ensure that the Directors Liversidge to be appointed as Senior Independent Director in Mr receive relevant information to enable them to discharge their Humphreys place with effect from the same date.
duties and that such information is accurate, timely and clear.
This information includes monthly management accounts containing analysis of performance against budget and other forecasts.
Additional information is provided as appropriate or if requested.
At each meeting, the Board receives information, reports and presentations from the Chief Executive Officer, the other Executive Directors and, by invitation, other members IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 52 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Overview Our Governance Overview Board and committee attendance The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year: Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Dr Bruce Smith Alan Aubrey Mike Townend Greg Smith 1 David Baynes Mike Humphrey Jonathan Brooks 2 Doug Liversidge 3 Prof. Lynn Gladden 4 Francis Carpenter 5 Charles Winward 1.
David Baynes was appointed to the Board with effect from 20 March 2014.
Doug Liversidge was appointed to the Board with effect from 20 March 2014 and appointed to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees from 01 July 2014.
Prof Lynn Gladden was appointed to the Board with effect from 26 March 2014 Did not attend and appointed to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees from 01 July 2014 4.
Francis Carpenter stepped down from the Board with effect from 01 July 2014.
Charles Winward stepped down from the Board with effect from 23 April 2014 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 53 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Corporate Governance continued of senior management or the Groups divisional teams as generally include an overview of the Group and its businesses, required.
This ensures that all Directors are aware of, and are in structure, functions and strategic aims: site visits to the Groups a position to monitor effectively, the overall performance of the head office in London and to one or more of its nationwide Group, its development and implementation of strategy, and its offices in Leeds, Oxford, Sheffield, Cardiff and Newcastle: and management of risk.
site visits to a number of the Groups portfolio companies, including one or more within the Groups top ten holdings Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is supported by a by value, which will include meeting with such companies paper analysing the relevant aspects of the proposal including management and a presentation from them on their businesses.
costs, benefits, potential risks involved and proposed executive In addition, the Company facilitates sessions as appropriate with management action and recommendation.
the Groups advisers, in particular its sponsor Numis Securities The majority of Board meetings are held at the Groups offices Limited, as well as with appropriate governances specialists, to in London, which gives members of the Groups divisional ensure that any new directors are fully aware of and understand teams the opportunity to formally present to the Board on their responsibilities and obligations as a director of a FTSE 350 new spin-out opportunities or early-stage portfolio companies company and of the governance framework within which they on which they are working.
This assists the Board in gaining a must operate.
deeper understanding of the breadth, stage of development and In order to ensure that directors continue to further their diversity of the Groups portfolio.
The Board also aims to have at understanding of the issues facing the Group, the Chairman and least one of its scheduled meetings, or its annual strategy day, at Non-executive Directors are encouraged to continue to visit the either the Companys offices in Leeds, Oxford, Sheffield, Cardiff Groups offices other than the main corporate office in London, or Newcastle or at the location of one of the Groups partner its portfolio companies and its partner universities.
Through 2015, universities in order to encourage further interaction with the at least one of the Groups Board meetings or its strategy day will Groups stakeholders.
Meetings between the Chairman and the be off-site to facilitate this.
As detailed above, the Board is also Non-executive Directors, both with and without the presence of exposed to the early-stage opportunities, in which the Group has the Chief Executive Officer, are also held as the need arises.
invested, through presentations at Board meetings by relevant members of the Groups staff.
It is also intended that, through Directors conflicts of interest 2015, other function heads such as the heads of IP Exec, IP Each director has a statutory duty under the Companies Act Impact, Communications and Business Support will be given the 2006 the CA 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she opportunity to present to the Board in order to enhance the has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or Boards awareness of how the Group operates on a day-to-day may potentially conflict with the interests of the Company.
This basis and how such functions assist in the execution of the duty is in addition to the continuing duty that a director owes Groups core strategy of systematically helping create, build and to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or support outstanding intellectual property-based businesses.
arrangement under consideration by the Company in which he or she is interested.
The Companys Articles of Association permit As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each director the Board to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
also receives feedback on his or her performance following the The Board has established procedures for managing and, where Boards performance evaluation in each year and, through the appropriate, authorising any such conflicts or potential conflicts Company Secretary, access to relevant training and development of interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at all Board meetings opportunities, including those relevant to the Non-executive and this gives the directors the opportunity to raise at the Directors membership on the Boards Committees, is facilitated.
beginning of every Board meeting any actual of potential conflict of interests that they may have on the matters to be discussed, Board effectiveness and performance evaluation or to update the Board on any change to a previous conflict of A performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees is interest already declared.
In deciding whether to authorise any carried out annually to ensure that they continue to be effective conflict, the directors must have regard to their general duties and that each of the directors demonstrates commitment to his under the CA 2006 and their overriding obligation to act in a way or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet his or her they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the commitment to the Company.
During the 2014 financial year, Companys success.
In addition, the directors are able to impose the Board assessed its own effectiveness through an internal limits or conditions when giving authorisation to a conflict or Board evaluation process: this followed an internally facilitated potential conflict of interest if they think this is appropriate.
evaluation for 2013 and an external evaluation for 2012.
The The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of any 2014 evaluation was led by the Chairman, assisted by the authorisation, may be reviewed by the Board at any time.
The Company Secretary, and consisted of one-to-one discussions Board believes that the procedures established to deal with between the Chairman and each of the individual Directors conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
covering the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, conduct of Board meetings: risk appetite: development of strategy: Board Induction, awareness and development composition and member performance: and the performance of A comprehensive induction process is in place for new directors.
This supplemented the detailed work The programme is tailored to the needs of each individual that was carried out in the last quarter of 2014 by the Nomination director and agreed with him or her so that he or she can gain Committee and the Board as a whole with the assistance of a better understanding of the Group and its businesses.
This will the Company Secretary and the Head of IP Exec, the Groups IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 54 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Overview Our Governance Overview in-house executive search function, to closely analyse the experience to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging composition of the Board in connection with the recruitment its duties.
It is responsible for making recommendations to process for a new Chairman.
That work focused on the current the Board concerning the composition and skills of the Board mix of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board as well as including any changes considered necessary in the identification on identifying the areas to be strengthened or where additions and nomination of new directors, the reappointment of existing are or will be required following the departure of Dr Bruce Smith directors and the appointment of members to the Boards as Chairman.
It also assesses the roles of the existing directors in office to ensure there continues to be a balanced Board The Chairman subsequently reported the results of the review in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The back to the full Board.
Overall it was agreed that, whilst it had Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs been a year of change in terms of the composition of the of the Group which will enable it to compete effectively in the Board, the Board and its Committees continued to operate marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board effectively throughout the period, both in terms of culture and on succession planning for executive director appointments decision-making.
The experience of the Board members is seen although the Board as a whole is responsible for succession as a key strength and it was noted that the most recently generally.
appointed members of the Board had integrated well and that the number of Board meetings was considered to be appropriate, The Committee is chaired by Dr Bruce Smith.
Its other members, with both the flow and availability of information between as at 31 December 2014, were Jonathan Brooks, Mike Humphrey, meetings supporting that position.
It was also agreed that good Professor Lynn Gladden and Douglas Liversidge, ensuring a progress had been made in the year against the action points majority of independent non-executive directors as prescribed identified in the 2013 Board evaluation, particularly as far as by the Code.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when strategy planning and further definition of the short, medium and required, or as requested by the Board, and met twice during long term objectives of the Group were concerned.
The decision of Dr Bruce Smith to step down from his however, always opportunities for improvement and, for the position as Non-executive Chairman of the Board and director coming year, in addition to the further planned addition s to the of the Company once a suitably qualified and experienced Boards composition, the Nomination Committee and the Board successor had been appointed, as announced on 29 October as a whole plan to focus on succession planning for the 2014, catalysed a period of intense work by the Committee, in Executive Directors and senior management team and to the final quarter of 2014 and the first month of 2015, to review continue to ensure that sufficient time is set aside to focus on in detail the structure, size and composition of the current strategy and the Boards risk appetite.
The attendance by each member of the Committee at the meetings during 2014 is set out on page 53.
The Committee In addition to the above, the Non-executive Directors, led by followed the following process in its search for a successor the Senior Independent Director, appraised the Chairmans Chairman: performance following which the Senior Independent Director provided feedback to the Chairman.
The performance of each of Mike Humphrey, as the Senior Independent Director, initially the Directors on the Board was reviewed by the Chairman and took charge of the process but, following his decision to put the operational performance of the other Executive Directors himself forward as a potential candidate, Jonathan Brooks, was reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer as part of the annual as the next most senior Non-executive Director, took over to appraisal process.
In addition to the aforementioned annual lead the process with the other members of the Committee.
reviews, the performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed In the context of the Groups strategy and the challenges likely by the Board on an ongoing basis, as deemed necessary, in the to be faced by the Board in the near to medium term, the absence of the Executive Director under review.
Committee evaluated each of the following in detail: i the balance of current skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Committees of the Board including gender on the current Board: ii what skills and The composition of the three Committees of the Board and the capabilities would be required of a new Chairperson attendance of the members throughout the year is set out in the candidate.
This included identifying any skills, capabilities, diagram on page 49. areas of expertise and or experience which were not already present, or were under-represented, on the current Board or Remuneration and Audit Committees which may result from the retirement of the current Separate reports on the role, composition, responsibilities Chairman: and iii any other potential additional skills, and operation of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit capabilities and attributes which may be necessary or Committee are set out on pages 58 to 59 and pages 75 to 78 desirable on the Board to supplement the existing members respectively.
and or to replace Mike Humphrey in the event that the Nomination Committee decision was made to appoint him as replacement Chairman.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board The Committee was assisted in its evaluation by the Company appointments and the re-election and succession of directors Secretary and the Head of IP Exec, the Groups in-house and the Chairman.
Its key objective is to ensure that the Board executive search function.
comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and Stock Code: IPO www.
com 55 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Corporate Governance continued The Committee appointed an external recruitment Internal control consultancy, Spencer Stuart SS, to assist with the The Board fully recognises the importance of the Guidance identification of appropriate candidates with the requisite on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial skills, knowledge and experience for the position.
SS is an and Business Reporting which, in September 2014, replaced international executive search consulting firm, which has a the Financial Reporting Councils Turnbull Guidance and other strong Board practice and has no other connection with the guidance on going concern and liquidity risk.
The Groups Group other than this engagement.
internal controls, which were Group-wide and were in place SS compiled a longlist, which the Committee narrowed down during the whole of 2014, were reviewed by the Board of to a shortlist, of preferred external candidates, which was also Directors and were considered to be effective throughout the shared with the Chief Executive Officer.
Following a rigorous year ended 31 December 2014. assessment of all the available candidates, the Committee The Board is responsible for establishing and monitoring internal concluded that, given Mike Humphreys experience both control systems and for reviewing the effectiveness of these internationally and with institutional investors, as well as the systems.
The Board views the effective operation of a rigorous benefits of continuity given the other changes in the Board system of internal control as critical to the success of the structure through 2014, he should be recommended to Group.
However, it recognises that such systems can provide the Board as having met the criteria required to succeed Dr only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Bruce Smith as Chairman, as well as having sufficient time to misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups internal discharge the requirements of the role.
The Board approved control system, all of which have been in place during the this recommendation and Mr Humphrey will formally succeed financial year and up to the date these financial statements were Dr Smith at the conclusion of the Board meeting on 24 March approved, are as follows: 2015.
In light of the vacancy left by Mr Humphreys appointment Control environment and procedures to Chairman, and the other areas which the Nomination The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined Committee identified as areas to be supplemented and or responsibilities and accountabilities.
It adopts the highest values strengthened during the Chairman appointment process, surrounding quality, integrity and ethics, and these values are the Committee is actively proceeding with its search for an documented and communicated clearly throughout the whole additional independent non-executive director and hopes to organisation.
be in a position to recommend a candidate for appointment Detailed written policies and procedures have been established by the Board during 2015.
The Committee will continue to be covering key operating and compliance risk areas.
These are assisted by the Head of IP Exec in this recruitment process.
reviewed and updated at least annually by the Board.
The Board In connection with any proposed future appointments through considers that the controls have been effective for the year 2015, the Committee will continue to adopt a formal, rigorous ended 31 December 2014. and transparent procedure.
Consideration will always be given Identification and evaluation of principal risks to whether identified candidates have enough time available to devote to the role.
When the Committee has found a suitable and uncertainties candidate or candidates, the Chairman of the Committee will The operations of the Group and the implementation of its make a proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is then objectives and strategy are subject to a number of key risks and the responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation uncertainties.
The Board actively identifies and evaluates the from the Committee.
risks inherent in the business, formally reviews these annually and ensures that appropriate controls and procedures are in place to monitor and, where possible, mitigate these risks.
Specifically, all decisions relating to strategic partnerships and other collaborations and acquisitions entered into by the Group are reserved for the Boards review and approval.
The Board formally reviews the performance of the Groups university partnerships and other strategic collaborations and relationships.
It also reviews equity investments on a quarterly basis, although performance of specific investments may be reviewed more frequently if deemed appropriate dependent on their relative size as regards the aggregate portfolio as a whole.
The Board maintains an up-to-date Register of Risks setting out mitigations in place in each case.
The key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, as well as the relevant mitigations, are set out on pages [34 to 37].
Were more than one of the risks to occur together, the overall impact on the Group may be compounded.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 56 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Overview Our Governance Overview Information and financial reporting systems Political expenditure The Group evaluates and manages significant risks, associated Although it is the Boards policy not to incur political expenditure with the process for preparing consolidated accounts, by having or otherwise make cash contributions to political parties, and in place systems and controls that ensure adequate accounting it has no intention of changing that policy, the CA 2006 is very records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately broadly drafted in this area and the Board is concerned that it and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in may include activities such as funding conferences or supporting accordance with IFRS.
The Board approves the annual operating certain bodies involved in policy review and law reform.
budgets and receives details of actual performance measured Accordingly, at the AGM held on 13 May 2014, the shareholders against the budget each month.
passed a resolution on a precautionary basis to authorise the Group to incur political expenditure as defined in Section Relations with stakeholders 365 of CA 2006 not exceeding 50,000 in total at any time The Company is committed to a continuous dialogue with from 13 May 2014 up to the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
The shareholders as it believes that it is essential to ensure amongst Board intends to seek renewed authority for the Group to incur its shareholders a greater understanding of, and confidence political expenditure of not more than 50,000 in total at the in, the medium and longer term strategy of the Group and Companys 2015 AGM, to be held on 12 May 2015, which they in the Boards ability to oversee its implementation.
It is the might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under responsibility of the Board as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory the terms of CA 2006. dialogue takes place.
The Boards primary shareholder contact is through the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Going concern Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Boards primary The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation contact with the limited partners and advisory boards of its that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in managed funds is through the Chief Investment Officer and the operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly Chief Executive Officer.
The Senior Independent Director and they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the other Directors make themselves available, as appropriate, for financial statements.
contact with major shareholders and other stakeholders in order ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD to understand their issues and concerns.
Where considered appropriate, major institutional shareholders are consulted Dr Bruce Smith Alan Aubrey on significant changes to the Board and the structure of the Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive Directors remuneration.
9 March 2015 The Company uses the Annual General Meeting AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 2.00pm on 12 May 2015 at IP Group plc, 24 Cornhill, London, EC3V 3ND, is enclosed with this report.
In line with the Code, the Notice of AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of the resolutions and the explanatory notes thereto are included with the Notice.
To ensure compliance with the Code, the Board proposes separate resolutions for each issue and proxy forms allow shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM, to vote for or against or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
The results of all proxy voting are published on the Groups website after the meeting and declared at the meeting itself to those shareholders who attend.
Shareholders who attend the AGM will have the opportunity to ask questions and all directors are expected to be available to take questions.
com is the primary source of information on the Group.
The website includes an overview of the activities of the Group: details of its portfolio companies, and its key university partnerships and other strategic collaborations: and details of all recent Group and portfolio announcements.
