CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT In 2014 we have seen the benefit of the actions taken in prior years to strengthen our Group Risk and Compliance and Group Internal Audit functions.
Jonathan Dawson Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit & Risk Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND the Committee for the year.
MEETINGS The activities of the Committee continue to be focused on: The Board considers that the members of the the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: Committee, both individually and collectively, possess the necessary range of skills and the Groups Risk Management Framework and processes: experience to enable it to properly discharge its the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls: and responsibilities.
Lord Sassoon is a Chartered Accountant and Richard Harvey is a fellow of the the effectiveness of the external audit process and of both our Group Risk Institute of Actuaries.
& Compliance and Group Internal Audit functions, being the second and third lines of defence in the Groups Risk Management Framework as The Committee met six times during 2014 and this illustrated in the chart on page 54. pattern will continue in 2015.
In addition ad hoc meetings are held as and when necessary.
In 2014 we have seen the benefit of the actions taken in prior years Those normally attending the meetings, by invitation, to strengthen our Group Risk and Compliance and Group Internal are the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, external Audit functions.
auditors, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Looking ahead, in addition to the matters of regular review which are detailed Group Head of Risk, the Group General Counsel, the in the report, the Committee will continue to take a thematic approach on Group Finance Director, the Group Commercial particular topics both on a geographic and a business line basis, supported by Director and the Group Chief Operating Officer.
presentations from the Chairs of regional and subsidiary company Audit & Risk Meetings are also held with the internal and external committees together with relevant line management.
Attendance The report also includes a summary of the most significant issues considered of Committee members is detailed in the table on by the Committee in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31st page 71.
As part of the structure of governance across the Groups business units, JLT operates subsidiary regional and company Audit & Risk Committees Subsidiary ARCs, designed to assist the local Boards of all material businesses in governing their businesses effectively.
During 2014 the governance structure was reviewed and re-evaluated across the Group, resulting in some smaller Subsidiary ARCs being consolidated into a Jonathan Dawson regional Subsidiary ARC e. g. in Latin America.
In Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee addition, during 2015, new Subsidiary ARCs are 10th March 2015 being put in place to follow the Groups expansion into the US and India.
52 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Subsidiary ARCs specifically focus on the In order to satisfy each of the responsibilities The key business areas reviewed oversight of significant risk, audit and internal set out above the Committee in the ordinary included: control matters affecting their businesses course of business reviewed: - Employee Benefits together with their regulatory responsibilities.
the drafting of the interim report, - ETV Thematic Review Each Subsidiary ARC is chaired by a nonpreliminary announcement and the - Information Security executive director, many of whom are annual report and accounts before their - Information Technology independent of the Group.
In addition to submission to the Board: formal reporting, the Group has established a - JLT Group Operations reports from the Group Finance Director, regular forum for Group and Subsidiary ARC - Latin America including updates on currency Chairs to meet throughout the year, at which - JLT Re exposures, bank exposures and the issues of common interest are discussed.
- Thistle UK treatment of exceptional items: RESPONSIBILITIES AND The risks arising from the Groups reports from the Group Chief Operating evolving strategy to invest in the US and Officer, including updates on the Groups ACTIVITIES the merger of JLT Specialty and Lloyd & existing and planned information The responsibilities of the Committee include Partners: technology resourcing, human resources, monitoring and reviewing the following key and the Business Transformation The progress of the integration of the areas in the ordinary course of business: Programme: Towers Watson reinsurance business and a review of the future global plans the integrity of the financial statements of reports from the Head of Internal Audit for this business: the Group, any formal announcements on areas where control weaknesses had relating to the Groups financial been identified, together with the Matters in relation to the regulatory performance and significant financial mitigation remediation plans of environment in which JLT operates reporting judgements contained therein: management, the activities within the globally.
In the UK this included function and resourcing matters: monitoring actions taken by management the Groups risk management responding to regulatory change and reports from the Head of Group Risk and framework, risk appetite and risk strategy participation in and consideration of the to ensure that these are appropriate to Compliance, including updates on FCAs work on market wide thematic dealings with the regulators in the UK the activities of the Group: reviews on ETVs, Financial Incentives and in other jurisdictions: the effectiveness of the Groups system and Conflicts of Interest and their of internal controls, including financial, the reports of the external auditors, guidance on inducements.
operational and compliance controls and including any matters relating to reports risk management and the effectiveness on the management of professional Members of the Committee have also of the Groups Internal Audit function: indemnity risk exposure and the extent of visited a number of the Groups operations any litigation provisions held: and around the world including Hong Kong, the effectiveness of the external audit Indonesia and Vietnam, where they met the effectiveness of the Committee.
process, taking into consideration relevant with senior management.
professional and regulatory requirements: In addition to its regular agenda of matters, the external auditors independence and the Committee also considered: objectivity is also reviewed together with Key and emerging risks in a number of the policy on the engagement of the business areas or Group support external auditors to supply non-audit functions, which were supported by services, taking into account relevant deep dive presentations delivered by guidance regarding the provision of nonsenior management and, in some cases, audit services by the external auditors.
the Subsidiary ARC Chair of the relevant business area.
The Committee intends to review all businesses in the group over a two year cycle of deep dives.
53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED During 2014 the Group completed its work to embed its updated risk control framework, supported by the 3 lines of defence model, which is illustrated below: RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK & GOVERNANCE 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line The Business Control Functions Internal Audit JLT Group plc Board JLT Group Audit & Risk Committee Entity Boards Group Risk & Compliance Group Internal Audit Entity Audit & Risk Committees Reporting Key: Primary reporting line Secondary dual reporting line Attendance at the meeting The Committee, through its Chairman, reports its findings to the Board after each meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committees terms of reference, which cover all matters required under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, are available from the Group Company Secretary or on the Groups website at www.
The UK Corporate Governance Code can be found on the FRC website www.
SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL STATEMENT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results and remuneration of senior management, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial results.
The Committee considered a number of significant issues in relation to the financial statements in the year, taking into account, in all instances, the views of the Groups external auditors.
The issues, and how they were addressed by the Committee, are set out below: Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Litigation Provisions This continues to be an area of focus due Committee members received and reviewed errors and omissions reports addressing key to the inherent uncertainty which can disputes, and discussed with management the key judgements made, including relevant legal surround legal disputes and consequently advice that may have been received.
The Committee members also discussed litigation provisions the judgemental nature of estimating the with  LLP PwC, and received reports from Internal Audit and Group Risk level of provision required.
and Compliance on quality controls designed to minimise the incidence of errors and omissions.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets At 31st December 2014 the consolidated The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill for potential impairment, Group balance sheet included 476 million including considering the key assumptions applied.
The Committee discussed the conclusions of of goodwill resulting from acquisitions and the impairment assessment and reviewed sensitivity analyses and external audit testing and other intangible assets of 86 million.
Revenue Recognition As revenue is the largest item within the The Committee reviewed the risk and control environment and income recognition practices with Groups financial statements this is a management and considered reports from the internal auditor and PwC, which included significant area of focus.
The variety of substantive testing at the year end.
The Committee concluded that management operates an revenue streams and timing of receipts appropriate control environment to manage the risk of material misstatement of revenue.
make revenue recognition a complex task.
54 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Calculation of pension liability Regular reports were provided by management on the movement in the Groups pension scheme Given the high sensitivity of the pension liabilities.
These reports were reviewed with management and appropriate actions were agreed.
scheme valuation to changes in the The auditor testing and assessments were also discussed by the Committee, and the pension assumptions made in the modelling of the scheme valuation was reviewed with PwC.
valuation and pension liabilities, this was an area of focus for the Committee.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and for overseeing the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function.
During the year, the Committee: the Committee reviewed: agreed PwCs remuneration for both audit and non-audit the annual internal audit plan: services, including satisfying itself that the level of audit fee was reports from the Head of Group Internal Audit on the results of appropriate to enable an adequate audit to be conducted: audit work performed, and the effectiveness of the Groups approved the external audit plan and ensured that it was systems of internal control: consistent with the scope of the audit engagement: co-ordination between the internal and external auditors: approved the terms of engagement, including the managements responsiveness to the findings and engagement letter issued at the start of each audit, and recommendations of the internal auditors and the monitoring the scope of the audit: of follow up actions relating thereto: assessed PwCs independence, including in relation to non-audit the adequacy of the resources of the internal audit function, services provided: including plans for increasing and enhancing that resource to reviewed the findings of the Group audit, including discussion of meet the increasing demands of the business: and any major issues arising, and any accounting and audit the overall effectiveness of the Group Head of Internal Audit and judgements: the Internal Audit function.
evaluated the effectiveness of PwC by way of a questionnaire distributed to senior finance staff across the Group: and held meetings with the PwC without management present.
The Committee scheduled this into its timetable as a matter of course and the Chair of the Committee also met privately with PwC at other times.
PwC also report regularly on the actions that they have taken to Jonathan Dawson comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee best practice in order to maintain their independence.
10th March 2015 PwC have been the Groups external auditors since 1991.
Under the proposed EU legislation governing auditor rotation, it is anticipated that the last financial year that PwC would audit the Groups accounts would be 31st December 2019.
There are no contractual obligations that would restrict the Companys ability to select an alternative provider should that be required.
