01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 39.
Audit Committee Report SUMMARY OF THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
A copy of the terms of references is available upon request from the Company Secretary.
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Groups internal control and risk management systems: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: reviewing the Groups accounts: developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee are: Christopher Spencer Chairman David MacLellan Talmai Morgan See pages 14 to 15 for biographical details of the current Audit Committee members.
MEETINGS The Audit Committee shall meet not less than three times a year and at such other times as the Audit Committee Chairman shall require.
Any member of the Audit Committee may request that a meeting be convened by the Secretary of the Audit Committee.
The external auditor may request that a meeting be convened if it is deemed necessary.
Other Directors and third parties may be invited by the Audit Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Audit Committee Chairman shall attend each Annual General Meeting of the Company and shall be prepared to respond to any shareholder questions on the Audit Committees activities.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING RISKS The Audit Committee considers the following significant risks in relation to the financial statements: a Investment Entity Standards The Group has been applying the Investment entities standards since the 2013 interim report.
In December 2014, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 related to the application of the investment entities exceptions.
As an investment entity, JLIF will no longer be able to consolidate the intermediate holdings companies which are themselves Investment Entities but should hold its 100% owned subsidiary JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. at fair value.
The Company has decided to early adopt the amendments.
The change in accounting standards applied and restated comparatives have been disclosed in this annual report.
The effects of these changes to the primary statements are the working capital balances of the intermediate holding companies which were consolidated will now be held within the fair value of the Companys 100% owned subsidiary JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. This includes cash balances and any debt drawn down at the balance sheet date.
The changes to the income statement are that only the interest received from JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. will be disclosed on the face of the income statement as opposed to the interest and dividends received from the PPP investments.
Audit Committee Report continued SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING RISKS CONTINUED a Investment Entity Standards continued The Audit Committee is satisfied that the management has assessed the appropriateness of the adoption of the clarifications set out in the IASB Exposure Draft, Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 : the external auditor has challenged the correct application of IFRS 10 and the Exposure Draft Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28, consulting where appropriate with technical specialists in formulating that challenge: the management has checked comparative information for consistency with prior year information: and the disclosures in the financial statements have been assessed for compliance with IFRS 10 and the Exposure Draft Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28. b Fair value of investments JLIF is required to calculate the fair value of the investments.
Whilst there is an active market for investments of this nature there is not a suitable listed, or other public market in these investments against which their value can benchmarked.
As a result a valuation is performed based on a discounted cash ow methodology in line with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The calculation of the fair value of the investments carries elements of risks, mainly in relation to the assumptions and factors such as: the determination of the appropriate macroeconomic assumptions underlying the forecast investment cash ows: the impact of project specic matters to the forecast cash ows for each investment: the determination of the appropriate discount rate for each investment that is reective of the current market conditions: the determination of the appropriate sensitivities to apply to meet the required disclosures: due to the IASB clarifications to the Investment Entities Standards, the underlying subsidiaries will now be held at fair value: the underlying project financial models may not reect the underlying performance of the investment: the cash ows from the underlying financial models may not take into account current known issues: the updates performed on the underlying financial models may result in errors in forecasting: macroeconomic assumptions taken by management can have a significant impact on the level of distributions: and major maintenance, which is a significant cost in some investments, with judgement around timing and quantum.
This can have a significant impact on distributions.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the managements assumptions have been reviewed and challenged for: the macroeconomic assumptions, including the comparison of these assumptions to observable market data, actual results and prior year comparatives: and the build-up of the discount rates for consistency and reasonableness, benchmarking against market data and peers and project specic items.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that the Portfolio Valuation and associated disclosures have been appropriately calculated, ensuring that the investments are brought on balance sheet at fair value and that the valuation reviewed by an independent rm has been reviewed and challenged by the auditor.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year whether or not there is a need for an internal audit function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not consider there to be a need for an internal audit function at the Group level.
However, internal audits of the underlying PPP projects are performed periodically by the Investment Adviser who report findings to the Audit Committee.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 41.
Audit Committee Report continued EXTERNAL AUDIT Deloitte LLP has been the Companys external auditor since launch in 2010, and this is its fifth consecutive annual audit.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Audit Committee has assessed the quality and the effectiveness of the audit process.
To draw its conclusions, the Audit Committee reviewed: the scope of the audit, the audit fee and the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan: the degree of diligence demonstrated by them in the course of their interaction with the Board, the Audit Committee and the Investment Adviser: the external auditors assessment of the Groups main risks: the report highlighting the matters that arose during the course of the audit and the recommendations made by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance issued in February 2013 and in particular the recommendation, in each, to put the external audit out to tender every five to ten years.
The Audit Committee has also noted the requirements of The Competition and Markets Authority formerly the UK Competition Commission with respect to external auditor services and retendering.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of the audit process and as such recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2015.
The Audit Committee also recommended the Audit appointment is retendered every eight years, with the Audit partner changing every five years.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES The Audit Committee considered the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
The external auditors objectivity and independence is safeguarded through limiting non-audit services such as work pertaining to their role as reporting accountants for capital raising services.
ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014.
Matters considered at these meetings included but were not limited to: review of the appointment of the external auditor: review of the effectiveness of the external auditor: approval of the external audit fees: review of circular and scrip election form: signing of the certicate of solvency required pursuant to section 304 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008: consideration and agreement of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee for approval by the Board: review of the proposed accounting policies and format of the Financial Statements: review of the audit plan and timetable for the preparation of the Report and Financial Statements: and review of the 2013 Annual Accounts Report and Financial Statements and the 2014 Interim report.
APPROVAL On behalf of the Audit Committee Christopher Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 March 2015 JLIF Limited
