Risk Committee Report Each of these areas are summarised in the table below, followed Risk is the potential for events to occur that by a detailed discussion of the risks.
can create either threats to success or Post-Mitigation opportunities for benefit.
Risk Risk Rating Risk is the potential for events to occur that can create either Strategic, Economic s Currency threats to success or opportunities for benefit.
Threats to the and External success of the business could adversely impact the Groups Ination and interest rates s business model, reputation or financial standing.
However, under s Funding of acquisitions and a well-formed risk management framework, potential threats can future equity raising be identied in advance and converted into opportunities.
s Competitors The purpose of JLIFs risk management policies and procedures is not to eliminate risk completely, as this is not possible: rather Political Future of UK capital spending s it is to reduce the likelihood of occurrence and to ensure that Pressures on contract terms s the Company is adequately prepared to deal with risks so as to and or early termination minimise their impact should they materialise.
Operational, Acquisitions and pipeline s In May 2014 JLIF appointed a dedicated Risk Committee, chaired Business, Processes by Mrs H Green.
The Risk Committee, which reports to the and Resourcing Board, was formed to review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control policies and procedures and that of the s Operational obligations Investment Adviser, Administrator and other third party service Financial, Tax and Financial s providers as it deems t for the identication, assessment and Accounting reporting of risks.
Tax s Risk identication and monitoring Compliance s Regulatory JLIF has a comprehensive risk management framework and and Legal risk register that assesses a the probability of each identied risk materialising: and b the impact it may have on JLIF.
This Asset Specic Investment risk s is captured by a rating system assigning a 1, 2 or 3 to the probability and a 1, 2 or 3 to the magnitude of the impact Information Cyber risk s with 1 being the least probable smallest impact and 3 being Technology the most probable greatest impact.
These values representing likelihood and impact are multiplied Strategic, Economic and External together and used to determine the overall severity of the risk.
Currency Risk The following red-amber-green system is used to prioritise and focus JLIFs risk management policies and procedures: JLIFs portfolio currently comprises six assets that are located outside the UK and are therefore exposed to currency risk s Red score 6 9 very likely to occur or has occurred in i. e. movements in exchange rates.
As at 31 December 2014 the recent past: significant potential impact on the rms these assets represented 14.0% 2013 15.0% of the Portfolio stakeholders, reputation and or financial standing if the Value as follows: risk occurred.
9.6% Canadian Dollar 2013 10.4% s Amber score 3 5 likely to occur, with a medium 4.4% Euro 2013 4.6% reputational and or financial impact if the risk did occur.
While this mix of currencies provides diversication benets, s Green score 1 2 unlikely to occur and only minor impact the Net Asset Value NAV of these assets will vary in Sterling should the risk materialise.
terms due to uctuations in exchange rates applied to future Mitigation controls have been developed with respect to each income from those projects.
Over the long term, the intention is risk identied so as first to reduce the likelihood of such risk not to hedge this exposure on the balance sheet.
However, over occurring and secondly to minimise the severity of its impact in the short term, cash distributions arising from these assets will the event that it does occur.
be monitored and hedged, if appropriate.
Furthermore, JLIFs multi-currency revolving credit facility affords the possibility of The risk register is a live document that is reviewed and updated borrowing in a foreign currency, thereby acting as a partial hedge.
regularly as new risks emerge and existing risks change.
The risk register is reviewed by the Risk Committee and a report is Ination and Interest Rate Risk presented at each Board meeting for consideration and approval.
The underlying assets in the Portfolio have some exposure to JLIFs risk register covers seven main areas of risk: ination.
Each asset receives a Unitary Payment UP from a public sector client.
This is paid from the end of construction until 1.
Strategic, Economic and External: the end of the concession period.
Operational, Business, Processes and Resourcing: The UP is calculated to cover the following costs incurred by the 4.
Financial and Accounting: Special Purpose Vehicle or project company SPV in delivering 5.
Compliance and legal: the contract: 6.
Asset Specic risk: and Operational costs for maintaining the asset including soft 7.
services, such as cleaning and catering, and hard services, such as the replacement of roofs, lifts, ooring etc.
: 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 11. Financing costs bank debt or bond finance used to meet Competitors the costs of construction is repaid over the course of the JLIF, in pursuing investment opportunities and seeking to raise concession once the project is operational : and further capital, competes against a number of other publicly-listed Cost of equity i. e. the expected return of the SPV shareholders.
JLIF differentiates itself from its peer group in a number of ways including its low cost of operation, The UP is used by the SPV to pay operational costs first, then to the operational experience and dedicated nature of the Investment service senior debt and nally for equity.
Adviser, its aim to raise capital against committed investments Finance costs are xed at the time of the contract being signed and the two First Offer Agreements with John Laing.
through the use of interest rate swaps and xed rate loans Driven by the need to meet energy targets, the renewable energy 8 thereby eradicating any interest rate risk in this respect.
Given market is a growing sector both in the UK and overseas.
While finance costs are xed, it is normal therefore for the portion of renewable energy projects vary greatly, some share similar the UP related to these costs to also be xed.
characteristics to PPP assets and this has led certain investors to Operational costs on the other hand are affected by ination and consider renewable energy as falling broadly under the same this is reected in the UP received from the client.
A proportionate asset class as infrastructure PPP projects.
This means that when amount of the UP corresponding to operational costs is seeking to raise new equity JLIF is likely to face increasing index-linked meaning the amount received increases decreases competition for funds from the same pool of investors as in line with ination.
This results in a natural hedge.
In a minority renewable energy funds.
of cases where the SPV has index-linked cash ows that fall JLIF recognises that certain renewable energy projects and other outside of the natural hedge, the ination risk is hedged using infrastructure projects that are not specically procured using the ination swaps.
PPP model may represent good investment opportunities and The assumed level of ination used by JLIF in its valuation of its create value for shareholders.
In early 2014, JLIF amended its Portfolio is regularly reviewed to ensure that it remains reasonable Investment Policy to include a category comprising up to 10% and provides JLIF with relative protection against ination.
of Total Assets calculated at the time of investment for Sensitivity analysis is carried out on an annual basis to evaluate infrastructure assets that are not necessarily government-backed the impact of changes in ination including the possibility of or classied as PPP assets but have a similar risk prole and deation on the Portfolio valuation see section 3.3.
None of the acquisitions made in 2014 fall into this category and so the Company does not yet The Company has some interest rate exposure, through its have any proportion of the Portfolio in this category.
own cash deposits, those of the project SPVs in which JLIF is a shareholder and the revolving credit facility when drawn.
Should JLIF wish to expand its overseas investment there is a risk JLIFs own cash deposits are generally minimal, given its in being a non-domiciled investor that it may be at a competitive approach to raising new capital, and therefore has very little disadvantage when bidding for assets, particularly from a tax cash drag.
The deposits within the project SPVs are generally perspective.
This could potentially limit JLIF's ability to increase the larger and JLIF works with the lending institutions to ensure geographic diversication of its Portfolio.
JLIF continues to procure the best available rates are achieved across the Portfolio.
specialist advice with respect to acquisition structuring such that the business can make an informed decision relating to competitive Funding of Acquisitions and Future Equity Raising advantage prior to incurring potentially aborted bid costs.
There is a risk that JLIF is unable to achieve its stated ambition of growing the Portfolio by acquiring new assets due to a lack of Political funding, both corporate debt and equity capital from investors.
UK Future of Capital Spending Under its Investment Policy, JLIF is required to hold at least JLIF has a three year 150 million revolving credit facility, signed 50% of its Portfolio by value in UK assets.
JLIF has over 85% in February 2013.
This provides JLIF with available short term of its Portfolio in the UK affording a material buffer between finance that can be accessed very quickly to pursue acquisitions.
the current allocation to the UK and the required limit in the The facility is due to expire in February 2016.
JLCM has already Investment Policy.
With the upcoming UK general election, there started to engage with potential facility lenders with a view to is a risk that the incoming government decides either to reduce agreeing a new facility upon expiry of the existing one.
The or stop altogether infrastructure spending, which would reduce facility is important as it is used to finance acquisitions prior to the potential pipeline of projects for JLIF to consider or that the raising capital, thus mitigating the risk of not having adequate model used to procure infrastructure offers a materially different funding for growth.
The Investment Adviser, in collaboration with risk allocation that would not allow JLIF to invest under its JLIFs Corporate Broker, monitors market sentiment and will not investment policy.
recommend utilising the credit facility if it is likely that subsequent capital raising would be problematic.
Should either of the above risks materialise, the immediate impact on JLIF and the secondary PPP market would be small as To date, investors have been supportive of JLIFs capital raising there is sufficient deal ow in the UK market to sustain this space activities, with the most recent capital raise once again being in the short term, as primary participants seek to recycle equity to oversubscribed.
This demonstrates the attractiveness of JLIFs reinvest in new infrastructure projects.
Furthermore, a growing strategy of raising equity to match an acquisition programme.
source of UK deal ow is infrastructure funds with nite lives This, as well as successful capital raises by other listed reaching maturity and seeking to realise an exit for investors.
infrastructure funds, confirms the appetite investors have for Given the proliferation of this type of fund in the mid-2000s and infrastructure as an asset class.
their typical investment horizon, JLIF anticipates a number of portfolios coming to market over the next few years.
8 Some interest rate risk is retained by the SPV in relation to deposit rates on bank accounts.
The medium to long term impact on the secondary market is less Operational Obligations clear.
However, there are a growing number of overseas jurisdictions JLIF invests in projects in which much of the risk is either retained in which infrastructure is procured using a PPP model similar to by the public sector client or passed down to sub-contractors.
that used in the UK lending themselves to natural diversication However, in all cases, some risk is retained by the Special Purpose by UK dominated infrastructure funds.
The secondary market in Vehicle or project company SPV as identied in the Prospectus.
many of these jurisdictions is less developed than that in the UK JLIF outsources the management of the project SPVs to third party presenting less competition thereby offering attractive operators who provide experienced professionals who, in many cases, investment opportunities.
have worked on the project for many years.
Such professionals typically have excellent relationships with clients and co-shareholders Pressures on Contract Terms and or Early Termination and are often based on site.
Risks can be mitigated such that the projects are minimally affected, if at all.
There is a risk that political pressure could result in certain public sector authorities seeking to exercise voluntary termination of a In the event that a single project should suffer from a material issue, project contract on one of JLIFs projects.
JLIF and the the diversity represented by JLIFs Portfolio of 56 assets across seven Investment Adviser engage regularly with HM Treasury and other sectors and three jurisdictions means that the impact on the Portfolio governmental PPP units in order to remain aware of current as a whole is minimised.
policy developments and to represent the interests of the Company.
In the event of voluntary termination by the public All of the projects in the Portfolio have obligations to provide operations sector counterparty, equity shareholders benefit from and maintenance services to maintain the infrastructure for the length compensation provisions within the project contracts which, in of the concession period.
The project SPVs, in which JLIF invests, some cases, ensures that market value is received.
During 2014 outsource the provision of these services to experienced facilities the Hexham General Hospital PFI project not part of JLIFs management and management services companies.
JLIF ensures that Portfolio underwent a voluntary termination by the Northumbria a diverse range of providers are used to supply these services to its Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, in which the voluntary projects such that failure of any single service provider has a minimal termination provisions of the PFI contract were followed.
impact on the Portfolio as a whole.
The following two charts show the diversity of facilities management companies and management services Operational, Business, Processing and Resourcing companies providing services to projects in which JLIF is an investor.
At launch, approximately 80% of JLIF assets had management services Acquisitions and Pipeline provided to them by Laing Investments Management Services LIMS JLIFs intention is to grow the Portfolio by identifying value which has now reduced to approximately 55%, demonstrating the enhancements within the existing assets and by the acquisition increased diversity of providers now working with JLIF, which reduces of new assets or additional stakes.
However, there is a risk that the concentration risk of a single provider.
a pipeline of acquisitions does not materialise.
In this respect, JLIF benets from two First Offer Agreements with John Laing Spread of Facilities Management Contracts giving it the right of first offer to a pipeline of infrastructure projects, 2 11 valued by John Laing at over 500 million over the next five years.
These are assets that have already reached financial close or preferred bidder status or have recently become operational and 7 are considered suitable by the Investment Adviser for addition to 4 JLIFs Portfolio.
Furthermore, JLIF continues to seek opportunities 2 1 1 for the longer term three to five years both in the UK and overseas.
5 5 The Investment Adviser to JLIF is John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, which is a wholly-owned 3 2 1 4 3 subsidiary of John Laing plc, which listed on the London Stock 5 1 1 2 Exchange on 17 February 2015.
The Investment Advisory 1 1 1 1 1 1 Agreement and the two First Offer Agreements remain in place: 1 1 1 1 1 1 there has been no impact as a result of the otation.
JLIF actively reviews its acquisition strategy and seeks to engage in acquisitions from both John Laing and the wider market.
The number of third party acquisitions made to date has seen JLIFs credibility as a buyer and track record increase and has further broadened its diversication of co-shareholders, Spread of Facilities Management Contracts contractors, clients, sectors and geographical markets.
It was JLIFs experience in 2014 that the secondary PPP market, both in the UK and elsewhere, was very active and this is 31 expected to continue in the short to medium term.
Please refer to the Outlook section of the Investment Adviser Report for further information on expectations regarding future market activity.
With the continued competition for UK secondary assets there is a risk that JLIFs ability to continue to grow is restricted or that in seeking continued growth over pays for an asset s. JLIF declined or ceased bidding a number of opportunities in 2014, 12 choosing not to compromise its strict pricing discipline.
While 3 1 this approach may reduce the speed of the Companys growth, 2 1 2 1 2 2 1 1 1 it is confident acquiring assets at good value and that enhance the Portfolio, rather than seeking growth for the sake of growth, remains in the best interest of JLIFs shareholders.
Johnson Controls Sodexo Amey Seddon Pinnacle Housing Rydon Maintenance Reliance Skanska Lemcon Oy Black and MacDonald Serco Hyde Housing Balfour Beatty ISS Thales Carillion Sir Robert McAlpine Vinci Interserve NCS Caerphilly SPIE Matthew Hall United House Strukton Brookeld Adactus Housing Kier Mitie LIMS Bouygues Compass MAMG 2 DUO Skanska IML Hyde Thales UKHMS SRM Interserve Bilnger Berger HCP Semperian SMS BV Relative Exposure by Portfolio valuation m Relative Exposure by Portfolio valuation m 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 13.
Financial, Tax and Accounting The Board has sought legal advice and received guidance from the FCA, after which it has concluded that shares in the Financial Company are excluded from these new NMPI rules as the JLCM is responsible for the preparation of a fair market valuation investment returns received in connection with shares in the of the Portfolio of 56 PPP assets, which is presented to the Company are wholly or predominantly linked to, contingent on, Directors.
To provide additional assurance to both the Board and highly sensitive to or dependent on, the performance of or JLIFs shareholders with respect to the valuation, an independent changes in the value of shares, debentures or government and verication exercise is performed by a leading accountancy rm public securities which are not themselves issued by special and an opinion provided to the Directors.
As a result, the Board is of the view that the restrictions relating to non-mainstream pooled investments do Tax not apply to shares in the Company.
JLIF values its Portfolio based on current enacted corporation tax rates and rules.
Changes to these rates or rules in the future Asset Specic could impact the valuation of the Portfolio.
Investment risk There is a risk to shareholders that the equity invested in JLIF Compliance and Legal is not itself quickly invested in new assets, thus sitting as Regulatory uninvested cash on JLIFs balance sheet.
To mitigate this risk, JLIF is required to comply with certain London Stock Exchange JLIF only seeks to raise new funds in the equity markets either: and Guernsey regulatory requirements.
JLCM, as Investment To repay debt drawn on the revolving credit facility to finance Adviser, is regulated and authorised by the Financial Conduct an acquisition: or Authority.
There is a risk that failure to comply with any of the relevant rules could result in a negative reputational or financial Once a specic investment opportunity with a strong chance impact on the Company.
of completing has been identied.
In this regard, JLIF ensures that any consents or approvals JLIF therefore ensures that it remains well informed as to the required under project documentation are sought at an early legislation and guidance relevant to both the Company itself as stage of the sale process to avoid unnecessary delays.
well as the Project Entities in which it invests.
This is achieved by seeking legal counsel and by providing training as appropriate.
Typically JLIF uses its corporate facility to finance acquisitions that originate outside of its First Offer Agreements, then repays this with With regard to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directives a capital raise to offer an efficient investment for shareholders.
AIFMD the position was claried in late 2013.
JLIF is a non-EU Those acquisitions made under First Offer Arrangements are Alternative Investment Fund AIF and JLIF is self-managed, usually a lot more certain so a capital raise can be timed such that meaning that the AIFM Alternative Investment Fund Manager the assets are acquired very shortly afterwards.
and AIF are the same entity.
There is a risk of non-compliance with the ongoing reporting requirements for countries in which There is a risk of a material operational issue developing in JLIF is marketed.
JLIF has obtained specic legal advice so as to respect of one of JLIFs underlying assets that prevents an asset remain informed as to the nature of these requirements and will from performing as expected.
Prior to investing in a project, JLIF continue to monitor for any changes to these requirements and undertakes thorough and detailed due diligence and any project to obtain appropriate legal advice as necessary.
specic issues discovered at that time are factored into the initial valuation and or the Sale and Purchase Agreement with the On 18 December 2014, the OECD published Public Discussion vendor to afford JLIF as much practical protection as possible.
Draft on Action 4: Interest deductions and other financial Post-acquisition, each of JLIFs assets are managed by a set of payments, which forms part of the OECDs Action Plan on experienced infrastructure professionals and JLCM receives Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS.
The impact of BEPS regular reports and updates from operational management so as for all PPP projects is concerned with the interest cost being to remain aware of any potential or emerging issues.
Additionally, a deductible cost item and limiting the amount of interest that members of JLCM sit directly on the boards of a number of can be deducted.
Several industry groups are responding to the Special Purpose Vehicles or project companies.
OECD and JLIF is working alongside these groups to ensure it is informed and lends support.
Information Technology The Company complies with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Cyber risk Act FATCA and its GIIN number is K2UFLF.
There exists an increasing threat of cyber-attack in which a JLIF will continue to report as required under FATCA, and similar hacker or computer virus may attempt to access the JLIF website legislation as brought in by OECD countries.
or JLIFs secure data, or that of one of the SPVs in which JLIF The Board of the Company has noted the rules of the UK invests, and attempt to either destroy or use this data for Financial Conduct Authority FCA relating to restrictions on the malicious purposes.
While the Company thinks it unlikely that retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes JLIF or one of the SPVs would be the deliberate target of a cyberand close substitutes referred to as non-mainstream pooled attack, there is a possibility that one or other could be targeted as investments or NMPI, effective from 1 January 2014. part of a random or general act.
JLIF and the project SPVs information technology providers have procedures in place to mitigate cyber-attacks, have in place business continuity plans and data is separately stored on multiple servers which is backed up regularly.
