Governance 77 How we govern the group Our governance structure The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of the group.
There are a number of Board committees, as set out below, to which the Board has delegated certain key matters.
BT Group plc Board Audit & Risk Nominating Remuneration BT Pensions Committee for Equality of Committee & Governance Committee Committee Sustainable and Access{Board Committee Responsible Business 5ead the report 5ead the report 5ead the report 5ead the report 5ead the report 5ead the report at 83 86 91 89 90 on page on page on page on page on page www.
com eab Operating Committee 5ead more 22 on page The Board Nominating & Governance Committee The Board is responsible for the groups strategy and for overseeing the The Nominating & Governance Committee makes sure that the Board groups performance as well as discharging certain legal responsibilities.
has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility to executive management.
It makes recommendations to the Board on There remain, however, a number of matters reserved for the Board.
appointments and re-appointments to the Board.
It also advises the Board on succession planning for Board appointments.
The Boards focus is on strategy development growing shareholder value oversight and control and corporate governance.
The committee oversees and monitors BTs governance framework and core compliance programmes, with a focus on non-financial assurance.
The Board approves strategic plans the annual budget capital expenditure and investment budgets large capital expenditure and Remuneration Committee investment proposals and matters of major strategic importance.
The Remuneration Committee agrees the framework for the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and certain senior The Board also sets the direction for the groups values, ethics and executives.
This includes the broad policy for cash remuneration, bonus business policies and practices.
It also oversees operating and financial awards, pension arrangements, executive share plans, service contracts performance risk management and internal controls compliance and and termination arrangements.
It approves new executive share plans major public policy issues and reviews the Group Risk Register.
and any changes to existing share plans which do not require shareholder You can read about the Boards activities and how it has applied approval and recommends to the Board such plans changes which do governance eectively during the year on pages 80 to 82. require shareholder approval.
ou can view a formal statement of the Boardos role at BT Pensions Committee www.
com board The BT Pensions Committee principally focuses on oversight of the BT{Pension Scheme BTPS.
This includes responsibility for considering pension policy and strategy matters significant to the group making Board committees recommendations to the Board on the BTPS triennial funding valuation The Board sets the corporate governance framework.
The Board committees and associated recovery plan discussing the BTPS investment strategy have terms of reference setting out their responsibilities and authorities.
and monitoring its performance and reviewing and approving BTs risk These are kept under review and changes are approved by the Board.
management activities in relation to the BTPS.
ou can view the committeeso terms of reference at www.
com committees Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business The Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business develops BTs strategy to be a responsible and sustainable business.
It oversees We set out below a summary of the role of each committee.
You can read corporate responsibility, environmental and community activities and about what each committee has done during the year in its report or in the Better Future programme.
the case of the Operating Committee you can nd greater detail on its role on page 22.
Equality of Access Board The Equality of Access Board EAB monitors, reports and advises BT{on Audit & Risk Committee its compliance with the Undertakings given by BT to Ofcom.
The EAB The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for the following areas reports regularly to the Board and publishes an annual report to Ofcom.
financial and narrative reporting internal controls and risk management internal audit and external audit.
ou can nd full details of the EAB committee members and its remit in the EAB report on our website at www.
com eab It reviews the groups risk prole and current risk exposure and also endorses a programme for testing the risk mitigation and controls underpinning the groups assessment of residual risk.
Operating Committee It also reviews disclosures in BTs published financial results, the Annual The Operating Committee is the key management committee and makes Report & Form 20-F, and other published information for regulatory decisions on operational and other matters in accordance with the compliance.
It assesses the performance of the external auditors annually framework established by the Board.
and recommends whether they should be re-appointed.
It also monitors the external auditors independence.
