78 Governance Board of Directors Key to membership of Board committees Operating Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominating & Governance Sustainable and Responsible Business BT Pensions Equality of Access Board Sir Michael Rake Gavin Patterson Chairman Chief Executive Appointed to the Board as Chairman in September 2007.
A British Appointed as Chief Executive in September 2013 and on the Board national, age 66. since{June 2008.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Sir Michael has financial, risk, and international business and professional Gavin has experience in sales, marketing and operations.
He was services expertise gained during his time as chairman of KPMG previously CEO, BT Retail and from 2004 to 2008 was Managing International from 2002 to 2007.
He previously held other roles in Director, BT Consumer, BT Retail.
Before joining BT, Gavin was managing KPMG from 1974.
A Chartered Accountant, he was knighted in 2007 director of the consumer division of Telewest now Virgin Media.
for{his services to the accountancy profession.
Prior to that, he spent nine years at Procter & Gamble, rising to become European marketing director.
Other appointments include Deputy chairman of Barclays and a non-executive director of McGrawOther appointments include Hill Financial.
Sir Michael is President of the Confederation of British Non-executive director of British{Airways.
Industry, a member of the board of the Transatlantic Business Council and patron of the Science Museum.
Tony Chanmugam Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in December 2008.
Skills and experience Tony has experience in finance, risk and the management and delivery of large contracts.
He was formerly CFO, BT Retail, and Managing Director, BT Enterprises and, from 1997 to 2004, he was CFO and then Chief Operating Ocer of BT Global Solutions.
He qualied as a Chartered Management Accountant.
Other appointments None outside BT.
Dan Fitz Company Secretary Dan is the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary of BT Group plc.
He joined BT in April 2010 as its Group General Counsel and was appointed Company Secretary in November 2012.
Dan{previously spent six years at Misys and 12 years at Cable &{Wireless.
A British and US dual national, age 54.
Governance 79 Tony Ball Karen Richardson Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in July 2009.
Appointed to the Board in November 2011.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Tony brings international business expertise in addition to financial, With a 25-year career in the technology and software industry, Karen operational, sales and marketing experience.
From 1999 to 2003 Tony brings experience in technology to the Board.
She was previously a board was chief executive of BSkyB and then chairman of Germanys largest member of i2Group and from 1998 to 2005 was with the NASDAQcable operator, Kabel Deutschland Gmbh until 2013.
He has held a listed software company Epiphany Inc, latterly as chief executive.
number of senior executive positions in broadcasting and telecoms Other appointments include businesses in the UK, US and Continental Europe.
Director of Exponent and Convercent.
An advisory board member of the Other appointments include MITA Institute and Stanford University Technology Venture{Program.
Senior advisor to Providence Equity Partners, chairman of the advisory council of Portland PR, a director of PureGym and the Spanish cable Nick Rose company ONO.
Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in January 2011.
Nick became Senior Warren East Independent Director in March 2014.
Non-executive director Skills and experience Appointed to the Board in February 2014.
Nick brings experience in finance, risk, control, governance and Skills and experience international business expertise.
He was chief financial ocer of Diageo Warren has experience in technology and engineering.
From 2001 to prior to his retirement in December 2010, having joined the board 2013, Warren was chief executive of ARM Holdings having joined the in{1999. company in 1994 as a general manager.
Prior{to that, he spent 11{years Other appointments include at Texas Instruments in a variety of roles.
Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings, senior independent director Other appointments include of BAE Systems and non-executive chairman of Loch Lomond Scotch Senior independent director and audit committee chairman Whisky.
Non-executive director of Rolls-Royce, Dyson and Micron Technology.
Jasmine Whitbread Non-executive director Phil Hodkinson Appointed to the Board in January 2011.
A British and Swiss dual Non-executive director national, age 50.
Appointed to the Board in February 2006.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Jasmine has experience in UK and international businesses, corporate Phil has experience in the financial sector as well as risk, control, governance social responsibility and sustainable business with particular expertise and sustainable business.
Phils previous roles include senior independent in building high-performing teams.
She has a background in technology director at Resolution, non-executive director of HMRC, group finance marketing and is currently chief executive of Save the Children director of HBOS, chairman of Insight Investment and Clerical Medical and International.
chief executive of urich Financial Services UK Life.
Other appointments include Other appointments include Governor of Dragon School Trust.
Non-executive director of Business in the Community and Travelex.
Trustee of Action Medical Research and BBC Children in Need.
Chair of the Community Mark Independent Approvals Panel and an advisor to the finance committee of Christian Aid.
