Governance continued Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 42,086,355 shares representing approximately 14.99% of the IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action Companys issued shares as at 30th March 2015 being the you should take, you should seek your own personal financial latest practicable date prior to the publication of this advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and prices.
If resolution 13 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shares Resolutions relating to the following items of special business repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: shares.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue shares i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 shares from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority NAV.
to issue up to 28,076,287 new ordinary shares or shares held in The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting Treasury for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of on pages 73 and 74.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion 1,403,814 such amount being equivalent to 10% of the issued of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below share capital and disapply pre-emption rights upon such the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the issues.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of remaining shares as and when market conditions are appropriate.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in Recommendation 2016 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 13 are likely to It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new promote the success of the Company and are in the best shares to new and existing shareholders when the Directors interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of As such issues are only made at prices greater than the net the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 74,784 spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than the shares representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued management fee which is charged on the value of the share capital of the Company.
Companys assets, over a greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment in line with the Corporate Governance Statement Companys investment policies.
Compliance ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Resolution 13 At the Annual General Meeting held on 7th May 2014, The Company is committed to high standards of corporate shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, Directors Responsibilities on page 43, indicates how the shareholders were informed that this authority would expire on Company has applied the principles of good governance of the 31st October 2015 but could be renewed by shareholders at any UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of time at a general meeting of the Company.
The Directors Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which complements the consider that the renewal of the authority is in the interests of UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a 1 best practice for investment trusts.
discount to the underlying net asset value NAV enhances the The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of NAV of the remaining shares and helps to control the discount corporate governance and considers that the Company has and its volatility.
Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate buy back its own issued shares in the market as permitted by 1 Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 34 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys experience relevant to the Companys business and brief business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Role of the Board A review of Board composition and balance is included as part A management agreement between the Company and JPMF of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of sets out the matters over which the Manager has delegated which may be found below.
Sir Alan Collins, the Senior authority.
This includes management of the Companys assets Independent Director, leads the evaluation of the performance within the guidelines established by the Board from time to of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have time and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the administration and some marketing services.
are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has been Tenure approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual Companys investment objectives and policy and its future General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital Association, it is required that they be reappointed by structure, appointment and removal of third party service shareholders.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried providers, review of key investment and financial data and the out each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for Companys corporate governance and risk control Directors to seek annual reappointment in accordance with arrangements.
The Board does not The Board meets at least five times during the year and believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely a Director from seeking reappointment but, when making a information is provided to the Board to enable it to function recommendation, the Board will take into account the ongoing effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, including responsibilities.
Further information on meetings and the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
committees can be found on page 36.
A list of potential conflicts of interest for each Director is The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential maintained by the Company.
These are considered carefully, conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of the taking into account the circumstances surrounding them, and, Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures if considered appropriate, are approved.
It confirms that the procedures The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set have operated effectively during the year under review.
out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent available for inspection on request at the Companys registered professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the office and at the Annual General Meeting.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Induction and Training Secretary, JPMF, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide adherence to Board procedures and compliance with all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular applicable rules and regulations.
briefings are provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors Board Composition are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Regular Sarah Bates, all of whom are considered to be independent reviews of the Directors training needs are carried out by the of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of Board by means of the evaluation process described below.
investment knowledge, business and financial skills and JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35 Governance continued Directors Report continued Meetings and Committees necessary.
A variety of sources, including external search consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide range of The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to candidates is considered.
In relation to the appointment of committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown Dr Kevin Carter, the Board engaged a recruitment consultant.
with the Directors profiles on pages 30 and 31.
Open advertising was not used as part of the process as the use The table below details the number of formal Board and of a recruitment consultant was deemed sufficient.
Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take year there were five Board meetings, including a private account of the benefits of these during the appointment meeting of the Directors to evaluate the Manager.
However, the Board remains committed to appointing two Audit Committee meetings, a Risk Committee meeting and the most appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other three Nomination & Remuneration Committee meetings were forms of diversity.
Therefore, no targets have been set against held.
Nomination & This year, the Directors commissioned Lintstock, a firm of Audit Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee independent consultants, to externally facilitate the evaluation Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings of the Board.
The process has involved the completion of Director Attended Attended Attended Attended questionnaires by the Board followed by interviews conducted by Lintstock with each Director.
The resulting written report is 1 Sarah Bates 52 13 discussed by Directors under the remit of the Nomination & Kate Bolsover 52 1 3 Remuneration Committee.
The evaluation of individual Simon Bragg 52 1 3 Directors is led by the Chairman and the Chairman is evaluated 2 Dr Kevin Carter 1 1 by the Senior Independent Director.
Sir Alan Collins 52 1 3 3 The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes James Williams 52 1 3 recommendations to the Board as and when required.
1 Attended by invitation of the Committee.
Audit Committee 3 Retired on 18th November 2014.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Simon Bragg, consists of all As well as the formal meetings detailed above, the Board the Directors, except the Chairman of the Board, and meets at communicates frequently by email or telephone to deal with least twice each year.
The Chairman of the Board attends by day to day matters as they arise.
Directors also meet face to invitation of the Committee.
The members of the Audit face outside scheduled formal meetings.
In 2014 Directors met Committee consider that they have recent and relevant on a number of occasions in relation to share issuance financial expertise and the requisite skills and experience to procedure, broker arrangements, AIFMD compliance and fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
Importantly, Directors The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the also visited the fund management team in New York and spent Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and time with a number of longer term strategists as well as with the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance senior management and the dealing desk in JPMAMs offices.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee provides confirmation to the Board as to how it has discharged Board Committees its responsibilities so that the Board may ensure that Nomination & Remuneration Committee information presented to it is fair, balanced and The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sarah understandable, together with details of how it has done so.
Bates, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least During its review of the Companys financial statements for the annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance year ended 31st December 2014, the Audit Committee of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to considered the following significant issues, in particular those select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when communicated by the Auditors during their reporting: 36 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Significant issue How the issue was addressed Companys Auditors attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts were considered Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in and also engage with Directors as and when required.
Having and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including investments note 1 to the accounts on page 52. assessing the quality of work, timing of communications and work with the Manager, the Committee considered it appropriate to Valuation of The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge Derivative instruments the currency risk arising from the USD investment recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this portfolio and the GBP debenture.
The Company enters recommendation which will be put to shareholders at the into short-term currency contracts with a range of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The current tenure of the counterparties.
The Companys policy is to fair value external auditor dates from 10th August 2006.
The Companys the derivatives is recorded in the balance sheet and year ended 31st December 2014 is the current audit partners the audit includes a independent valuation of the fifth of a five year maximum term and accordingly a new audit derivatives contracts from a third party pricing source.
partner will oversee the Companys 2015 year end audit.
Any Calculation of The management and performance fees are calculated decision to open the external audit to tender is taken on the management and in accordance with the Investment Management recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Risk Committee Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken in In the course of 2014, the Board established a Risk Committee.
investment income accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the The Risk Committee, chaired by Sir Alan Collins, consists of all accounts on page 52. the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
Only one Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust meeting was held in 2014 given the timing of the Committees Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years establishment.
commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been The Committee discusses the Companys overall risk appetite, obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
tolerance and strategy, taking into account the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment.
It The Board is required to be made fully aware of any significant further reviews the Companys key risks and identifies and financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection manages any new risks that arise during the year.
Finally, the with the preparation of the financial statements.
Committee reviews compliance with the Companys investment restrictions and guidelines.
As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended Terms of Reference 31st December 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business and Risk Committee have written terms of reference which model and strategy, and has reported on these findings to the define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in are available on the Companys website and for inspection on the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 43. request at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee also examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, receives information from Relations with Shareholders the Managers compliance department and also reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full In the Directors opinion the Auditors are independent.
understanding of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for Annual Report and Accounts and the Half Year Report.
This is making recommendations to the Board on the reappointment supplemented by the daily publication, through the London and removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 Governance continued Directors Report continued All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to The Company is also aware that approximately 4.0% of the attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not addition, a presentation is given by the investment manager exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the who reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the terms and conditions of the savings products, under certain investment management team, JPMF and the Companys circumstances the Manager has the right to exercise those brokers hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
That right is subject to certain limits and Directors are made aware of their views.
The Chairman and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant Directors make themselves available as and when required to general meeting.
The Directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on Risk Management and Internal Control page 81.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of system of risk management and internal control and to report the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit review of all controls, which the Board has identified to include questions via the Companys website or write to the Company business, financial, operational, compliance and risk Secretary at the address shown on page 81. management.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk published on the Company website shortly after the Annual management and internal control which is designed to General Meeting.
safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that financial information used within the Section 992 Companies Act 2006 business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The following disclosures are made in accordance with failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only Section 992 Companies Act 2006: provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, Capital Structure material misstatement or loss.
The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside Since investment management, custody of assets and all cover of this report.
administrative services are provided to the Company by Voting Rights in the Companys shares JPMorgan and its associates, the Companys system of risk Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the management and internal control mainly comprises date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual monitoring the services provided by JPMorgan and its General Meeting on page 75. associates, including the operating controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Information on environmental matters, social and community managing the significant risks faced by the Company see issues is set out on page 28.
The Company has no employees.
Principal Risks on pages 27 and 28.
The Company does not Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the At the date of this report, the following had declared a internal audit department of JPMF which reports any material notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: failings or weaknesses.
This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal Number of control are as follows: Shareholders voting rights % Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by Brewin Dolphin Limited 44,991,672 16.0 the Board of key investment and financial data, including Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 27,828,981 9.9 management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of Quilter Cheviot Limited 14,003,486 5.0 transactions and performance comparisons.
38 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a policy statements on corporate governance, voting policy and manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct social and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in noted by the Board.
Details on social and environmental issues a written agreement.
are included in the Strategic Report on pages 28 and 29.
Management Systems The Managers system of risk Corporate Governance management and internal control includes organisational JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to its investment agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, process.
As part of its commitment to delivering superior investment delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These performance to clients, it expects and encourages the companies in are monitored by JPMorgans Compliance department which which it invests to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules and reports to governance and best business practice.
JPMAM examines the share the Board.
structure and voting structure of the companies in which it invests, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the These analyses then form the basis of JPMAMs proxy voting and Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the engagement activity.
Proxy Voting The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would Companys system of risk management and internal control by manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the diligent manner, based exclusively on reasonable judgement of what will Manager and its associates as follows: best serve the financial interests of clients.
So far as is practicable, JPMAM the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which it is invested.
of the management agreement and receives regular Stewardship Engagement reports from JPMorgans Compliance department: JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as the Board reviews a report, which is also independently a major asset owner.
reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of JPMAM is a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment, an its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: and initiative of the UN Secretary-General and supports the principles of best the Directors review every six months an independent practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in report on the internal controls and the operations of JPMFs which we invest is central to our investment process and we also investment trust department.
recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance of risk management and internal control for the year ended Guidelines are available on request from the Company 31st December 2014, and to the date of approval of this Annual Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: Report and Accounts.
During the course of its review of the system of risk management and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been By order of the Board advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary JPMorgan Funds Limited, actions has not been considered appropriate.
Secretary Corporate Governance and Voting Policy 31st March 2015 The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following information in italics is a summary of JPMAMs JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
