EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 27 own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and 34,324 Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.03% additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely of the voting rights of the Company.
information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Corporate Governance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Compliance professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of advice and services of the Company Secretary which is Directors Responsibilities on page 35, indicates how the responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures Company has applied the principles of good governance of the are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code complied with.
2012 the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, which complements Board Composition the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of six of best practice for investment trusts.
non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including of corporate governance and considers that the Company has the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate knowledge, business and financial skills and experience Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical under review.
details of each Director are set out on pages 22 and 23.
A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Role of the Board of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of A management agreement between the Company and the which may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director Manager sets out the matters over which the Manager has leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is authority.
This includes management of the Companys assets available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
administrative and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule Tenure of matters reserved to the Board for decision has been Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Companys investment objectives and policy and its future Association, it is required that they be appointed by strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment is subject structure, appointment and removal of third party service to the performance evaluation carried out each year and the providers, review of key investment and financial data and the approval of shareholders at each annual general meeting, in Companys corporate governance and risk control accordance with corporate governance best practice.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of The but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures account the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and have operated effectively during the year under review.
Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are Board does not believe this connection influences Mr available for inspection on request at the Companys registered Kaletskys independence as a Director of the Company.
office and at the Annual General Meeting.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 28 Governance continued Directors Report continued Induction and Training were employed to conduct the search for a new Director, which resulted in the appointment of Sarah Arkle.
Trust Associates On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary have no connection with the Board or the Manager.
provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided on changes in law and The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of regulatory requirements that affect the Company and the the Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and that all Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed other seminars covering issues and developments relevant to adequately to the work of the Board and its Committees.
Regular reviews of the Directors evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, training needs are carried out by the Chairman by means of skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, the evaluation process described below.
including gender, and how it works together.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman.
The Senior Meetings and Committees Independent Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, Remuneration Committee with the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, Committee by invitation.
consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the The table below details the number of Board and Committee Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director and other meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there Directors.
This takes into account the level of fees paid to the were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, a directors of the Companys peers and within the investment Management Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination trust industry generally to ensure that high quality people are Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
Recommendations are made to the Management Board as and when appropriate.
Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Audit Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended The Audit Committee, chaired by Nigel Kenny and whose membership is set out on pages 22 and 23, meets at least twice Sarah Arkle 42 1 1 1 each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that David Gamble 52 1 1 1 they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the Anatole Kaletsky 52 1 1 1 responsibilities of the Committee.
At least one member of the Nigel Kenny 52 1 1 1 Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Percy Mistry 52 1 1 1 1 The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Alan Saunders 52 1 1 1 Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and 1 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009.
Mr Saunders now the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance attends by invitation.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Board Committees systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance Nomination Committee department and also reviews the scope and results of the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience has reviewed the independence and objectivity of the auditors to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose and is satisfied that the auditors are independent.
The Audit suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
The Committee also has the primary responsibility for making appointment process takes account of the benefits of diversity, recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and including gender.
An independent third party, Trust Associates, the removal of external auditors.
28 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 29 During its review of the Companys financial statements for the The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for year ended 30th June 2014, the Audit Committee considered making recommendations to the Board on the reappointment the following significant issues, including those communicated and removal of external Auditors.
Representatives of the by the Auditors during their reporting: Companys Auditors attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts were considered and Significant issue How the issue was addressed also engage with Directors as and when required.
Having reviewed the performance of the external Auditors, including Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys assessing the quality of work, timing of communications and investment objective, risk management policies, capital work with the Manager, the Committee considered it management policies and procedures, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow projections.
As appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The Board a result, they have determined that the Company has supported this recommendation which will be put to adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The and suitable management arrangements in place to Board reviews and approves any non-audit services provided by continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the independent auditors and assesses the impact of any future.
non audit work on the ability of the auditors to remain Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in independent.
The only non-audit work carried out by the and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in auditors this year was in relation to their member firms work on investments note 1 to the accounts on pages 43 to 45.
Controls are in the Companys tax return in Pakistan.
The Board has resolved place to ensure that valuations are appropriate and that such non-audit work does not impact the independence of existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
Details of the auditors fees paid for audit and Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken non audit services are disclosed in note 5 on page 46. investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the  have audited the Companys financial accounts on page 43. statements since its launch in 1991 and were reappointed following an auditor review in 2013.
The Companys year ended Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust 30th June 2014 is the current Audit Partners fifth of a five year Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years maximum term.
Corporation commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been Tax Act 2010 obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility Management Engagement Committee Section 1158 and 1159 criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial review the performance of the Manager.
reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the financial statements.
The Committee conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the As a result of the work performed, the Committee has investment strategy and process of the Investment Manager, concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended 30th June noting consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable long term, and the quality of support that the Company receives and provides the information necessary for shareholders to from the Manager.
As a result of the evaluation process, the assess the Companys performance, business model and Board confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing strategy, and has reported on these findings to the Board.
The appointment of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement as a whole.
of Directors Responsibilities on page 35.
Terms of Reference The Audit Committee also examines the effectiveness of the The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management Companys internal control systems, receives information from Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference the Managers Compliance department and also reviews the which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness of which are available on the Companys website and for and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
inspection on request at the Companys registered office and In the Directors opinion the Auditors are independent.
at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 30 Governance continued Directors Report continued Relations with Shareholders business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, understanding of the Companys activities and performance material misstatement or loss.
and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and Since investment management, custody of assets and all two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by administrative services are provided to the Company by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of risk the net asset value of the Companys shares.
management and internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by the Manager and its All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged associates, including the operating controls established by to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the them, to ensure that they meet the Companys business Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager Company see Principal Risks on pages 19 to 20.
This process who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys has been in place for the year under review and up to the date brokers, the Investment Manager and the Manager hold of the approval of the annual report and accounts, and it regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the make themselves available as and when required to address internal audit department of the Manager.
This arrangement is shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through kept under review.
the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 73.
The key elements designed to provide effective risk The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in management and internal control are as follows: time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit the Board of key investment and financial data, including questions via the Companys website or write to the Company management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of Secretary at the address shown on page 73. transactions and performance comparisons.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, General Meeting.
whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
Risk Management and Internal Control Management Systems The Managers system of risk The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at management and internal control includes organisational least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, system of risk management and internal control and to report delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a are monitored by the Managers Compliance department which review of all controls, which the Board has identified as regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules.
including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the management.
Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk Board.
management and internal control which is designed to The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system records and ensure that financial information used within the of risk management and internal control by monitoring the 30 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 31 we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its invested.
associates as follows: Stewardship Engagement reviews the terms of the management agreement and JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a receives regular reports from the Managers Compliance major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC department: Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself managers should: independently reviewed: and publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their reviews every six months an independent report on the risk stewardship responsibilities to their clients: management and internal controls and the operations of disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: the Manager.
monitor their investee companies: By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: Companys system of risk management and internal control for the year ended 30th June 2014 and to the date of approval of have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board confirms that any failings or weaknesses identified during the course of its review of the system of risk JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and management and internal control were not significant and did supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that not affect the Company.
regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an Corporate Governance and Voting Policy active owner on behalf of our clients.
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to the The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Manager.
The following is a summary of the Managers policy Guidelines are available on request from the Company statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social Secretary or can be downloaded from the Managers and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted website: www.
co. uk institutional by the Board.
 CorporateGovernance, which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Corporate Governance Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment its detailed voting record.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate By order of the Board governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the JPMorgan Funds Limited, board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These Company Secretary analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement 1st October 2014 activity.
Proxy Voting JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
