Corporate governance report Governance framework Dear Shareholder, As a Company, we believe that achieving high standards of corporate governance is fundamental to the management of our business.
We have a strong governance framework Chairman embedded within the culture of our organisation through our Company values, our Code of Conduct, and its underlying supporting policies, procedures and management processes.
Ultimate responsibility for this lies with the Board, and we are continually looking to improve Board standards while building a successful Company.
The September 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, introduced additional compliance requirements, such as the consideration of board diversity and external board evaluations to be carried out every three years, as well as how certain activities, such as those carried out by the Audit Committee are reported on in this Nomination Remuneration Audit Leadership Disclosure 1 Committee Committee Committee Team Committee Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company believes that it has complied with all of the Code provisions.
This Corporate Governance Report explains how the Company applies the principles of the Code.
This years Annual Report is subject to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Compliance Risk Internal Steering Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Committee Audit Committee the Regulations.
Details of which can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 51 to 68.
The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue 1 A number of Management Committees that report to the Leadership Team with our shareholders and it is important for me, as well as are described in detail on page 43. other members of the Board, to make ourselves available to shareholders and to meet with any who wish to see us.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I met with a number of shareholders ahead of last years AGM, in consultation over the proposed changes to the performance conditions and structure of the Executive Directors Performance Share Plan.
In addition, Louise Makin, our CEO, held over 80 meetings with investors and Rolf Soderstrom, our CFO, met with over 30 institutional investors.
Louise also attended and presented at a number of conferences which were attended by existing and potential shareholders as well as industry representatives.
Communications with shareholders are coordinated during the year by the Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations, who reports directly to the CFO.
At the Companys AGM on 16 July 2014, the Board will be available to meet investors as usual for face-to face discussions.
Garry Watts Chairman 38 Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The time commitment of the non-executive directors depends The Board supports the principles set out in the Code as on the number of committees that they are a member of but the published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September expectation is that they would normally work approximately two 2012, which applies to reporting periods beginning on or after days per month, subject to any increased demand driven by 1 October 2012 and can be found on the FRC website, business activity.
The Financial Conduct Authority has yet to Roles and Responsibilities change the Listing Rules, and therefore requires that certain The Board compliance statements are made in relation to the edition of the The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Code issued in June 2010.
This report therefore addresses the Company and specifically to: requirements of both editions of the Code.
Set the Companys strategic objectives and policies.
Compliance with the provisions of the Code The Board considers that the Company complied in full with Ensure the necessary financial and human resources are in the principles set out in the Code throughout the year ended place to support strategy.
Details of directors remuneration, as required by Determine the significant risks that the Company is willing to the Code and Part 4 to Schedule 8 to the Large and Mediumtake to achieve its strategic aims and ensure effective risk sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports management controls are in place.
Amendment Regulations 2013, are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 51 to 68. Review management and Company performance.
The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, is required to review whether Ensure the proper discharge of the Companys statutory and this corporate governance statement reflects the Companys other legal, regulatory and ethical responsibilities.
compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for its Agree and oversee the application of an appropriate corporate review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
conducted such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement of corporate governance does not reflect such Board activity during the year: compliance.
The Company confirms that no such report has Activity over the year encompassed a number of typical cyclical been made.
items, such as approval of the 2014 2015 budget, preliminary announcement, Annual Report & Accounts and the 2013 interim Leadership financial statements and announcement.
Other matters The Board of Directors included a bi-annual review of the risk management report from The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group the Audit Committee, a Strategy Review day and an R&D and and the overall management of the business.
It has a schedule of Innovation day intended to allow the Board to oversee the matters specifically reserved for its decision or approval.
These progress with the development of the Groups product portfolio include the approval of the interim and annual financial and and to consider future R&D investment options in more detail.
management statements, and major public announcements, Both the Strategy and R&D reviews were refocused to take into setting strategic direction, budgets and long-term plans.
Other account the impact and opportunity presented by the areas include the approval of major investments, acquisitions acquisitions of TheraSphere and EKOS Corporation during the and disposals, key risk decisions, major capital expenditure, year.
Specific matters reviewed included the progression and decisions relating to major litigation, significant financing, ultimate approval of those acquisitions and the definition of the dividend policy and executive remuneration and appointments.
The Board as a whole reviews the overall strategic development Governance matters included review of the Board and of the Group, monitors operating performance, the performance committee evaluations and recommendations from the Board of management, succession planning, health, safety and committees, such as proposed amendments to the terms of environmental performance and standards of ethical and social reference for each of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration behaviour.
It is also responsible for developing robust corporate Committees.
Further work included the simplification of the governance, legal, compliance and risk management procedures Group corporate structure.
aimed at safeguarding the Companys reputation and assets, staff and patients and meeting its legal, regulatory and other In terms of external focus, feedback from investors was regularly obligations and ensuring the integrity of its financial information reviewed by the Board and specific input was sought from and business conduct.
material shareholders in relation to the changes to the executive director Remuneration Policy approved at the 2013 AGM.
While, as a unitary board, the executive and non-executive directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Board Committees Company and have fiduciary duties to shareholders, their roles The Board has three committees, Audit, Remuneration and are strictly delineated.
The executive directors have direct Nomination, to which it delegates specific responsibilities.
responsibility for the business operations of the Company, while The reports for these committees can be found on pages the non-executive directors are responsible for bringing 46 to 68.
Each committee has full terms of reference that can independent and objective judgement to Board decisions and be found on the website at btgplc.
com about-us corporatethe Chairmans primary responsibility is for the effective running governance and are available on request from the of the Board.
The non-executive directors duties include helping Company Secretary.
to develop the Companys strategy, shaping proposals on succession planning and constructively challenging the executive directors where they consider it appropriate.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Governance Corporate governance report continued The terms of reference for each committee are reviewed at least Executive Directors annually, to take into account evolving best practice and each The CEO, Louise Makin, is primarily responsible for the running revision is approved by the relevant committee and then by the of the Group and for executing the Group strategy in line with the Board.
The Board provides the committees with sufficient risk appetite defined by the Board and the Company values.
resources to undertake its duties, including access to the Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer CFO, is responsible for Company Secretary and external advisers, where appropriate.
all financial reporting, tax and financial control aspects of the Group, providing support to the CEO and the wider business The Chairman activities of the Group as required.
The CFO has operational Garry Watts has been Chairman since he joined the Board on responsibility for business development activities.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, creating conditions for overall Board and individual The executive directors are also responsible for: Director effectiveness, promoting constructive debate and for Communicating to the Board their views on business issues ensuring the following: to improve the standard of Board discussion and, prior to That the Board devotes adequate time to the right agenda final decision on an issue, explaining in a balanced way any issues, such as its role in shaping strategy.
divergence of view in the executive team.
A robust decision making process is in place by ensuring Providing input to the strategy formulation process to enable appropriate high-quality information is made available to the an effective and evidence based approach and to ensure that Board in a timely manner and that clear decisions are made, the Board is well informed about all aspects of the business communicated and effected.
and its operation which bear on its strategy.
That the Board environment is productive and the Delivering high quality information to the Board to enable it to composition and diversity, experience and expertise of monitor the performance of the whole business including the the Board and its Committees is appropriate having regard management of risk, and to make critical decisions, e. g. on to the Companys needs.
The Board discharges its responsibilities with respect to risk management.
Board committees are properly structured with appropriate terms of reference, membership and collective experience.
Necessary relationships of mutual respect and open communication are fostered between directors, with nonexecutive directors providing support and advice while respecting the executive responsibility.
Effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Senior Independent Director Giles Kerr has been the Companys Senior Independent director SID since July 2008.
The principal role of the SID is to support the Chairman in his role, to work with the Chairman and other directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise.
He is also responsible for: Supporting the Chairmans delivery of objectives, and leading his evaluation.
Leading the non-Executive Directors in the oversight of the Chairman and ensuring there is a clear division of Board by gender responsibility between the Chairman and CEO.
Being available to shareholders to express concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would 6 be inappropriate.
Male 2 Female 40 Attendance at meetings The table below details the directors attendance at scheduled composition of the Board and the Companys assessment of the Board and Committee meetings since the last annual report, the independence of the directors.
Board & Committee Committee Independent Board Nomination Audit Remuneration composition & attendance memberships meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 8 3 3 5 Executive directors Louise Makin CEO None No 8 8 n a n a n a Rolf Soderstrom CFO None No 8 8 n a n a n a Non-executive directors 2 1 Garry Watts Nom No 8 8 3 3 n a n a 2 Giles Kerr Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 8 8 2 3 3 3 4 5 Melanie Lee Rem Yes 8 8 n a n a 5 5 2 Ian Much Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 8 8 3 3 3 3 5 5 James OShea Nom Yes 8 8 3 3 n a n a Richard Wohanka Aud Yes 7 8 n a 3 3 n a 1 4 Garry Watts is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of The external auditor always attends the Audit Committee meetings and the his role as Chairman of the Company.
remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
5 The table shows, for each director, number of meetings attended number of 3 Richard Wohanka was unable to attend the July Board meeting and AGM due meetings eligible to attend.
to an engagement in place prior to his appointment to the Board.
Giles Kerr 6 Additional specific Board sub-Committee telephone meetings were held as did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting where his re-appointment appropriate to approve specific business activities such as the acquisitions of was discussed and one Remuneration Committee meeting where a change of TheraSphere and EKOS Corporation.
location meant he was unable to attend.
Board composition, membership and election of directors the Committee reviews the composition of the Board on a The Board comprises six non-executive directors, including the regular basis to ensure that, as the business evolves, the Chairman, and two executive directors.
Board continues to have the necessary skills to support the development of the business.
The names and brief biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 36 and 37.
The Company recognises the All non-executive Board appointments are for three year terms, importance of diversity, including gender diversity, with 25% subject to re-election at each years AGM, apart from Giles Kerr, of the members of the Board being women.
Details of gender whose re-appointment is for a one year term, having served on diversity in the Group below Board level can be found in the Board for more than six years.
Following the formal the corporate citizenship area of the strategic report on evaluation process, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the pages 22 and 23.
Directors continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role, including time for Board and There have been no changes to the Board during the year.
Committee meetings and their other duties.
As reported in the Nomination Committee report on page 50, Balance of directors Tenure of non-executive directors and Chairman 1 1 Chairman More than 6 years 2 1 executive 4-6 years directors 3 5 2-4 years non-executive 1 directors 1-2 years BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Governance Corporate governance report continued Independence They also have direct access to the advice and services The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that its non-executive directors remain independent.
The Board that Board procedures are followed.
The Company also reviews the independence of the non-executive directors every provides appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
year, using its own judgement when applying the criteria in the Performance evaluation Code.
Having undertaken this review, the Board confirms that all The Board recognises that a review of its own performance the non-executive directors are considered to be independent in is beneficial in ensuring its continued effectiveness character and judgement.
In line with the recommendations of and development.
the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
Garry Watts was The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of considered to be independent at the time of his appointment the CFO.
The Chairman and non-executive directors review the although, in accordance with the Code, he is excluded from the performance of the CEO.
The non-executive directors, led by the determination of whether at least half the Board are SID and following input from the executive directors, evaluate independent non-executive directors thereafter.
the performance of the Chairman each year.
The Committees also review their performance and report the results to the Directors conflicts of interest Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The non-executive directors To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 meet at least once a year without the executive directors in order directors conflicts of interests, the Companys Articles enable to discuss the performance of the executive directors and any the Board to authorise situations that might give rise to directors concerns over their management of the Companys affairs.
Directors complete a declaration form in order to determine whether any actual or potential conflicts This year, as last year, under the direction of the Chairman, need authorisation.
The forms are reviewed annually to ensure the Company Secretary developed a series of comprehensive that the information provided is up to date and includes any questionnaires to evaluate the performance of the Board as disclosures made during the past year.
a whole, the Committees and the Chairman, using web based software.
Next year, in line with the requirement of the Code At the March 2014 Board meeting all directors were asked to for an external evaluation at least every three years, external review and make any necessary amendments to their existing consultants will be appointed to carry out the review.
The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen.
The results of the process confirmed that the Board provided Board members are regularly reminded to disclose any conflicts effective leadership of the Group.
Progress was reported against should they arise.
Any such notifications are kept in a conflicts the objectives set for the Board last year: register maintained by the Company Secretary.
Any director There was greater transparency around the risk management who considers they may have a potential conflict of interest is process, with the Board looking more closely at risks involved required to report this to the Chairman in the first instance, with the Companys strategy and the Audit Committee who may consult the Nomination Committee and report their concentrating on ensuring effective operational identification findings to the Board.
management and mitigation of risks.
Information, training and support and performance evaluation The experience and expertise of the non-executive directors Information, training and support was drawn on more fully with relevant non-executive directors Using a secure Board portal, accessible by the Board on an contributing to discussions on the Groups financial affairs electronic device, in advance of each meeting the directors and risk management processes outside the formal board receive an agenda and a full set of papers for each item to be meeting schedule.
Directors receive sufficiently detailed strategic and operational reports and senior executives regularly attend The Board noted the pace of development and change in the meetings to enhance the non-executive directors understanding business over the year had an impact on the Board, making of the business and current issues and to make presentations increased communication more important than ever.
on the results and strategies in their areas of responsibility.
This In response to this years evaluation the Board objectives are to: year an R&D and Innovation day was introduced into the Board programme to further enhance understanding of how the Increase communication, by way of additional Board calls activities of this important part of the business are undertaken on the Board calendar, to respond to the pace of activity and to better inform the Boards consideration of the Companys and growing complexity of the business, especially in months strategy and investment programme and options.
Board where there are no formal Board meetings already scheduled.
meetings are occasionally held at different office locations in the UK and US enabling non-executive directors an additional Continue to improve the monitoring of progress on delivering opportunity to visit other Company sites.
the strategy and its component parts and understanding the long-term sustainability of the business model.
When they join the Company, each director receives a Continue to develop the risk management processes, comprehensive induction package, which includes written especially from a top-down perspective to ensure the early information and opportunities to meet appropriate members identification of emerging risks and that the process of staff.
All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through continues to be further integrated into the evolution of publications and conferences and through information provided strategy and assessed when looking at acquisitions and other by the Company and its advisers.
The goal is to continue to evolve There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent the definition of the Groups risk appetite.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
42 Groups internal control and risk management framework Continue to look at benchmarking performance and are described below.
development opportunities against the external environment and competitors.
The Group has well defined management structures and processes for the assessment, evaluation and acquisition of Continue the focus on people and leadership development business opportunities, and development and execution of R&D and succession planning, ensuring the Group has adequate commercialisation strategies as well as oversight of governance capability and capacity in terms of people and resources to activities.
A number of committees that monitor various parts of meet its diversifying objectives.
the business report to the Leadership Team on a regular basis: Financing reporting and internal control Research & Development Oversight Board: Ensures BTG The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the is investing in its assets efficiently and in relation to preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 71 opportunities with well-targeted business cases where the and the auditors statement on the respective responsibilities value to the customer and to BTG is clearly understood and of Directors and the auditor is included within its report set out articulated.
Oversees the definition of activities and priorities on pages 72 to 74. of the Innovation Leadership Team and Development Communications with shareholders, such as results Leadership Team.
announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM and Innovation Leadership Team: Investigates the opportunity trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by the to develop new products, product line extensions and new Board, or a sub-committee of the Board, to ensure they are indications to address identified unmet medical needs, transparent and balanced in the view they give of the Companys providing strategic and operational leadership of innovation progress and prospects.
activities up to proof of principle in man.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group Operational Leadership Team: Responsible for ensuring that maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk the manufacturing and supply chain are tightly controlled and management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit their operations are optimised, as far as practicable, meeting Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the detailed all applicable regulatory requirements.
monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and reports to the Board on its findings.
The Board has reviewed the system of Development Leadership Team: Evaluates and is intimately internal controls including financial controls for the year under involved in the definition and execution of development review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and activities, beyond proof of principle in man, to support the Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than Companys commercial strategies.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and Global Quality Leadership Team: Reviews progress with overall can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Quality Strategy and objectives, this includes ensuring material misstatement or loss.
inspection readiness, QMS effectiveness and enhancements, The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness product delivery on time and to required quality, safety and of these controls, are that they allow the maximisation of efficiency.
shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while Performance Management Review: Monthly meeting of the ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed and the Leadership Team and senior staff to review progress against Groups legal, regulatory and other obligations are met.
The business plans and targets, both financial and operational.
controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting Risk Committee: Responsible for monitoring risks throughout efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper the organisation and assessing the effectiveness of the risk running of the business.
control and mitigation measures implemented by the Group, reporting findings to the Audit Committee twice yearly.
In To strengthen the control framework of the business, the Group depth analysis of key risks is undertaken periodically to has established an Internal Audit group supported externally by ensure a degree of independent assessment of the PwC.
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee operational application of the risk management process report on pages 46 to 49. and to seek to identify opportunities to apply alternative Structure and reporting or enhanced risk mitigation strategies.
The Group has a management structure with clear lines of Compliance Steering Committee: Responsible for maintaining responsibility and accountability, staffed by appropriate personnel.
and overseeing a system to ensure that the Group is fully The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy and compliant with all applicable laws including US Federal and reviewing the performance of the Group.
State requirements that relate to the commercial operations of the Group, including its US sales and marketing teams.
The Companys Leadership Team, chaired by the CEO, is It sets policy and oversees any investigations required with responsible for the day-to-day running of Group operations.
respect to any alleged failures.
It also assists in the definition Other team members include the CFO and senior staff members and assessment and response to compliance monitoring from the business.
The team is also responsible for making and auditing and reports to the Audit Committee at least recommendations to the Board on the Companys strategy and twice yearly.
Other responsibilities include ensuring the internal controls in place to manage and assess Corporate Responsibility Committee: Ensures the Group risk are fully complied with.
The fundamental elements of the maintains high standards in this area.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Leadership Team generally meets weekly and more formally Related parties and conflicts of interest on a monthly basis to review business performance measured The Group maintains robust procedures to ensure that related against annual budgets, longer-term plans, an agreed set of party transactions and potential conflicts of interest are objectives and performance criteria for each business unit as identified, disclosed and managed.
Directors declare interests in well as to assess and respond to issues arising across the Group.
other businesses on appointment to the Board, as they arise and Forecasts are monitored monthly on the basis of detailed reviews also complete an annual self-certification.
Where it is identified of progress and prospects.
Reporting to the Board is based on that a related party relationship exists, the Board agrees specific the information provided to and reviewed by the Leadership additional procedures to ensure the effective management of Team as well as their assessment and recommendations potential conflicts of interest.
regarding how to deliver the Groups objectives.
The reports Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of the Board, is also the include non-financial as well as financial information and a Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director of Isis review of progress within the development portfolio.
Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oxford Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are University.
Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company entered embedded throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has into technology commercialisation and revenue sharing reviewed the detailed reports of the Risk, Internal Audit and agreements with these organisations prior to Giles Kerr joining Compliance Committees and reported its findings to the Board.
The Group has licensed the intellectual property For further details see the Audit Committee report on pages rights covered by these agreements to independent third-party 46 to 49.
The Board has reviewed the risk management process companies that are developing and or selling the licensed and confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that products.
Under these licence agreements, the Group is entitled the Group continues to be compliant with the guidance on to receive milestone payments and or royalties on sales of the internal control issued by the Code.
products sold by the third-party licensees.
The Group has a system and key expert personnel responsible Under the various revenue sharing agreements, the Group pays for supporting the protection and maintenance of patents and a share of any income it receives to Oxford University or Isis other intellectual property rights on the products in which BTG Innovations, depending on the specific technology that has an interest.
The Group also actively monitors its royalty generated the income.
As the revenue sharing agreements revenue streams and from time-to-time audits its major do not permit these organisations to have any input over the licensees to ensure compliance with the terms of the commercialisation of the licensed products or the amount relevant agreements.
payable under the relevant revenue sharing agreement, Giles Kerr is not able to influence the amounts received in his position The Group has delegated authority structures that ensure that outside the Group.
Because he has no influence over any aspect decisions are taken at an appropriate level, with an appropriate of these agreements in his role outside the Group, the Company level of input by internal and external expert advisers.
The considers that his independence in relation to the Group is delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of not compromised.
approval at each level and requires decisions with significant financial, legal risk or reputational impact for the Group to be Within the Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest, approved by the Board.
it has been agreed that Giles Kerr will not participate in any discussions or decisions concerning the relevant agreements Corporate policies, values and compliance either within the Board or in any other discussions or meetings All employees within the Group continue to receive periodic with the executives of its subsidiaries.
training on the key requirements of the Groups Code of Conduct which covers all aspects of ethics, business practices and The Board has considered, and is satisfied with the separation compliance, including a whistle blowing policy, an anti-bribery of duties and safeguards.
and anti-corruption policy and policies related to the ethical On 23 May 2013 the Company completed a placing of 32,208,030 conduct of research and development and interactions with new ordinary shares at a price of 3.30 per share, raising a total doctors and other healthcare professionals.
Relevant employees of approximately 103.1m after expenses.
The purpose of the meet regularly to discuss external changes in the regulatory, placing was to fund, in part, the completion of the acquisitions legal and financial environments in which the Group operates to of EKOS Corporation and TheraSphere which were announced ensure it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best on 23 May 2013 and completed on 5 July 2013 and 13 July 2013 practice.
The Group also runs periodic lunch and learn sessions respectively.
As part of that placing, Invesco Asset Management updating staff on key issues affecting the business.
who immediately prior to the undertaking of the placing held The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the 29.9% of the issued share capital of the Company subscribed effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.
The controls for 9,574,530 ordinary shares at the placing price representing described above operate and are embedded within the day-toa total consideration at the placing price of 32.4m, representing day business.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, 2.8% of the market capitalisation of the Company as at the close evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The completion of A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year up the placing resulted in Invesco holding a total of 29.9% of to the date of approval of the financial statements and is the issued share capital of the Company as at 24 May 2013. regularly reviewed by the directors and is in accordance with the Invesco participated in the placing on the same terms as other Code.
Further information is given in the Audit Committee report subscribers and no commission was payable to them in respect on pages 46 to 49. of that participation.
44 As Invesco held greater than 10% of the issued share capital of Extensive information, including annual and interim reports, the Company immediately prior to the placing they were deemed interim management statements and all press releases, is a related party for the purposes of the Listing Rules.
published on the Groups website www.
com for access by all shareholders.
In addition, through the website, individuals See note 30 on page 113 for additional related party disclosures.
can register to receive electronic copies of all Company announcements on the day they are issued.
Market abuse directive The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Annual general meeting Market Abuse Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO and the Vice The AGM is the principal opportunity for private shareholders President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
The Committee to meet and discuss the Groups business with the Board reviews all significant items of business within the Group and other senior management.
A full business presentation regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if required, and maintains is given and there is an open question and answer session an Insider List recording both those employed within the during which shareholders may ask questions both about Group and at external parties who may have access to inside the resolutions being proposed and the business in general.
Whenever individuals are placed on or removed The Board is available after the meeting for an informal from the List they are notified accordingly and advised of discussion with shareholders.
The AGM will be held at 10.30am on 16 July 2014, at the offices Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the AGM of Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M Relations with shareholders 7SH.
The Notice convening the meeting is distributed separately The Group maintains good communications with shareholders to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
It is through formal and informal dialogue.
The Company formally also available on the Companys website: www.
com reports its results twice a year with full year results announced investors reports-and-accounts.
The letter accompanying the in May and interim results in November.
The CEO and CFO give AGM Notice includes details of the resolutions and explanatory presentations of these results to the Companys institutional notes thereon.
shareholders, analysts and the media.
The presentations are broadcast live on the internet for the information of all Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting shareholders.
The presentations are available thereafter as an may elect to vote electronically or using the proxy form archive on the Companys website and a webcast of the event on accompanying the Notice.
In order to vote electronically, the website for approximately a year.
In addition, the Company members should log on to Capita Asset Services BTGs prepares interim management statements in January and July registrars website www.
com and follow that are released to a regulatory news service and are available the instructions on the screen.
Crest members may send their on the Companys website.
proxy votes to the Companys registrars electronically.
The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors with At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, against support from the Investor Relations department.
The Chairman, and withheld in respect of each resolution will be disclosed Senior Independent director and other directors are available to and subsequently published in a market announcement and meet with major shareholders on request.
As part of his role as on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, the Senior Independent director, Giles Kerr is available to Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present shareholders when contact with the executive directors or the at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
Chairman may not be appropriate.
The Chairman of the At this time the Company does not consider it appropriate to Remuneration Committee wrote to major shareholders last May introduce mandatory poll voting on all resolutions put to the setting out the executive director Remuneration Policy proposals AGM but will continue to keep that position under evaluation and he and the Chairman met with many of them to gain their in future years.
feedback ahead of the proposals being put to shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
No other requests were received from major shareholders to meet with the Chairman, Senior Independent director or other non-executive directors during the year.
The Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations department at each Board meeting giving information on material changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the Companys brokers and investors.
Following the twice-yearly results announcements and any subsequent shareholder meetings held by management, detailed feedback from external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, outlining the views and reactions of investors and analysts.
This enables the Board to develop an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Governance
