Nomination Committee report The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible Considering the expertise and capabilities as well as the for appointments and reviewing the structure of the Board capacity required of the Groups management team and wider and its Committees.
The key objective of the Committee is employee group having regard to the Groups strategy and to ensure the Board has the balance of individuals who have changing needs.
This was an area of focus in light of the rapid the appropriate mix of skills, experience, knowledge and growth of the Group including as a result of the acquisitions expertise to lead the Company.
The Committee and its membership Board succession The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and updated There have not been any changes in the composition of the during the year, are available on the Companys website, or from Board or its Committees during the year.
As part of the Boards the Company Secretary on request.
The key responsibilities of succession plans, the skills required by the Board members are the Committee are: regularly reviewed and appropriate candidates for replacement are identified to ensure the overall balance and skills set of the To review regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board.
At the start of the process for appointing new directors, Board looking at its balance of skills, experience, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, desired independence and knowledge as well as its diversity including skills and capabilities required for the appointment.
External gender diversity and make recommendations to the Board on search consultants are usually appointed to assist with finding any appropriate changes.
The Committee interviews candidates and To identify, via a rigorous and transparent procedure, and then produces a shortlist for a subsequent interview by all Board nominate, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates to fill members.
In assessing candidates for Board roles, the any vacancies for non-executive directors and, with the Committee has regard to the objective of ensuring appropriate assistance of the Chief Executive Officer, executive directors.
diversity including gender diversity of Board composition.
To plan for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
Following the appointment of new non-executive directors, the Committee ensures that they receive a comprehensive induction To recommend to the Board the membership and programme.
As part of the induction process each new director chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
is given a full briefing on the financial and operating history of the Company and details of its strategy, operating plans, budgets Members Committee member since and forecasts for future years.
Arrangements are also made for Garry Watts each new director to meet with the heads of the various Committee Chairman 1 January 2012 business units for a briefing on the areas of business in which the Company is involved.
A review is undertaken of the content of Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 recent Board and Committee discussions including risk Ian Much 1 January 2012 management reports, minutes and historical actions.
A briefing James OShea 13 May 2009 on corporate governance and directors responsibilities may also be given and the opportunity to attend external courses Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table is also available.
The Committee also reviews succession plans and plans for Other attendees at Nomination Committee meetings emergency cover of key managers on a regular basis.
The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings by invitation.
Committee evaluation The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to The Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness and the Committee.
reported the results to the Board.
The Committee was found to be functioning effectively.
Activities The principal activities during the year related to: the reappointment of three non-executive directors, Ian Much, Garry Watts Giles Kerr and Melanie Lee.
Ian and Melanie were reappointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee for a further three-year term, subject to being re-elected at each Annual General Meeting.
Due to Giles having served on the Board for six years, the Committee agreed that in line with best practice, his reappointment would be for a period of twelve months.
It is the expectation that any non-executive director reappointment beyond six years would be made on an annual basis.
Discussing succession planning for the Groups Leadership Team, including the CEO and CFO and the Groups senior managers.
