Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder The Committee and its membership The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for The role of the Audit Committee is central to the governance monitoring all aspects of financial reporting and management of the Groups financial activities.
It monitors, reviews and of risk.
The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and enhances the integrity of the Groups internal controls, its updated during the year, are available on the Companys website, financial reporting and the way the Group assesses, manages or from the Company Secretary on request.
and reports risk and compliance.
A significant part of the Committees time is spent on these areas, and as the business Committee members qualifications continues to become more complex, it presents an increasing The composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year number of challenges for the Committee to address.
The and the Board is satisfied that the members have the breadth of highly regulated environment in which the Company operates knowledge and experience necessary to effectively fulfil the only enhances the need to ensure our processes remain fit Committees responsibilities.
Giles Kerr is a Fellow of the for purpose.
Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of Finance at Oxford University.
As required by the Code, he is considered to Following the introduction of the September 2012 edition have the necessary significant recent and relevant financial of the Corporate Governance Code the Code, that applies experience to qualify him to be the Chairman of the Committee.
to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012 He receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his and after taking advice from the Audit Committee, the Board additional responsibilities, as set out on page 68.
Other confirmed that the annual report and accounts, taken as a members bring substantial experience in international business whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the areas as well as financial expertise to the deliberations of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Committee.
In particular Richard Wohanka has more than 20 performance, business model and strategy.
years experience in the finance and asset management industry.
For further information, see the directors biographies on pages The following report sets out the activities of the Committee over 36 and 37. the past year and how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Other attendees at Audit Committee meetings The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Giles Kerr Director of Finance, Group Financial Controller and Internal Chairman of the Audit Committee Auditor normally attend meetings.
The external auditor always attends Commitee meetings.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Activities A summary of matters considered by the Committee since the last Annual Report is shown on the following page.
Each area of review is explained in further detail within this report: Members Committee member since 6 November 2007 Giles Kerr Committee Chairman 1 November 2010 Ian Much Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 41.
46 There were three Committee meetings during the year Area of review Activities undertaken Financial reporting Review of the Groups half year and full year results Consideration of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable Review of external auditor reports on the half year and full year results Consideration of significant accounting issues as detailed below Review of prospective changes in accounting standards and their potential impact Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto Assessment of the going concern basis of preparation for the financial statements External auditor Review of external auditor independence Review of the scope, nature and resource planning for half year and full year audits Approval of external auditor fees Review and approval where required of use of auditors for non-audit work Risk management and internal control Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures Detailed risk review surrounding the Groups Intellectual Property management IT and cyber-risk review Review of enhanced compliance systems and policies Review of the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing Review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy Review of the Groups tax affairs Review of internal investigations and Internal Investigations Policy Internal audit Review of the integration of the acquisitions made in 2013 so far as they relate to key controls Review of the Internal Auditors work plan Review of Internal Audit reports produced throughout the year Review of structure and resources of the Internal Audit group Committee governance Review and amendment of Committee terms of reference Completion of an effectiveness review Financial Reporting understandable.
As part of this review it discusses the audit A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed monitoring findings and auditors report with management and the external of the integrity of the annual and half year results, including a auditor and considers significant judgements and issues review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them as set out below.
Following this discussion the contained in them with the aim of ensuring that they present a Chairman of the Committee reports the results of its review to fair and balanced view of the Company and comply fully with the the full Board.
The external auditor meets with the non-executive relevant statutes and accounting standards.
Where requested directors in the absence of management at least twice a year, by the Board, the Committee will advise on whether, taken as a when the half and full year results are discussed.
whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Governance Audit committee report continued Significant accounting matters Areas where prior approval is not required include audit-related The Committee considered the following key accounting issues, services as specified in the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors judgements and disclosures during the course of the year: and other services, that are routine in nature, where the fee is not significant in the context of the audit fee and where the Acquisition accounting: The Group completed two acquisitions conduct of such services will not adversely impact auditor during the year: EKOS Corporation and the Targeted Therapies independence or objectivity.
division of Nordion Inc. comprising the TheraSphere product.
The Committee discussed the key assumptions and The Committee receives a written annual report from management judgements applied by management in satisfying the summarising the fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work requirements of IFRS 3 and reviewed valuation reports and whether such services were pre-approved or specifically prepared by an independent third party.
Note 33 contains approved by the Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the further details of acquisition accounting.
external auditor for non-audit services are set out below.
Carrying value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets: The Committee Audit Committee approval Task Fees received and critically reviewed a report from management 000 setting out the approach to and results of impairment testing Pre-approval required: in accordance with IAS 36.
The report covered all asset classes, with a particular focus on goodwill and intangible No US tax compliance services 101 assets as further disclosed in note 12 and the valuation No Others 5 methodology including discount rates, assumed growth rates across and sensitivity analysis for these asset classes.
Total fees paid to the Companys auditor, KPMG, are shown in note 6 on page 91.
The Committee believes that the use of KPMG Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities: The was appropriate and efficient in the circumstances and that Committee reviewed the appropriateness of deferred tax asset independence was preserved as a partner other than the audit recognition and the movements on deferred tax assets and partner was responsible for the work and the fees paid were liabilities during the year.
This included the movements arising insignificant in the context of the size of KPMG as a whole.
from the Groups two acquisitions and the assumptions made in setting up the deferred tax liability on acquired intangibles.
Each year, the Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor and makes a recommendation to the Board.
Presentation format of Consolidated Income Statement: The As part of this process, the Committee also looks at the need Groups Consolidated Income Statement on page 76 has, for a for the rotation of the audit partner and assesses the auditors number of years, been prepared using a three column format independence.
Richard Broadbelt replaced David Bills as audit for each financial year.
The Committee reviews the engagement partner this year, following Davids completion of appropriateness of this disclosure on an annual basis and did his five-year term.
An agreed succession plan had been put in so once again this year, paying particular regard to recent place ahead of handover, which went smoothly.
Last year, while guidance from the Financial Reporting Council, in relation to considering partner rotation, the Committee considered whether the reporting of exceptional items issued in December 2013. it was an appropriate time to engage in an external audit tender Other matters: During the course of the year, the Committee process, taking into account the speed of change and complexity received updates from management on Group corporate of the business, and the services offered by the current auditors, structure, tax strategy and the adoption of new accounting and their independence, together with the guidance issued by standards.
In particular, the Committee discussed the impacts the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
KPMG have been the of IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011 see note 22.
Groups sole external auditors since the Company listed in 1995 and the audit contract has not been put out to tender since their Review of external auditor effectiveness, independence appointment.
At the time, the Committee concluded that it and appointment would not be in the Companys interests to commence a tender The Committee reviews the overall performance of the auditor process, but would review this decision annually.
Following an annually and approves its terms of engagement and equivalent review of the auditor this year, including auditor remuneration.
The Committee discussed and agreed the performance and independence, the Board recommends the auditors proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the reappointment of KPMG as external auditor, and to authorise audit of the results for the year to 31 March 2014 and also the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
reviews the non-audit work carried out by the auditor to ensure that such services do not impair its independence or objectivity.
Having regard to the FRCs guidance on transitional The external auditor provided a report demonstrating how their arrangements and ongoing developments in audit regulation, the independence and objectivity is maintained when providing Company intends to consider external audit tender, at the latest, non-audit services.
nearer the time of the next audit partner rotation, currently scheduled for 2018, however the Company may put the audit out The Committee has a formal policy for approving the use of the for tender at any time before this date.
The Committee further auditor for non-audit work detailing areas where the auditor may acknowledges, and will continue to monitor, the proposed not be used, where they may be used subject to the agreement changes by the UK Competition Commission and the European of the Committee and areas where prior approval is not required.
Union in respect of the auditor services and retendering.
48 Risk management and internal control to report any concerns without fear of recrimination and an The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group independent telephone line is available should staff wish to use maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk it.
The arrangements were reviewed by the Committee during the management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee, year and were found to be operating effectively.
on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of UK Bribery Act the risk management process and internal control effectiveness The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery and and reports to the Board on its findings twice-yearly.
In particular, anti-corruption policy introduced in 2010 in response to the UK the Committees review focuses on financial, operational, Bribery Act 2010.
This has included the conduct of due diligence healthcare law compliance and risk management controls for on new key business partners who may act on behalf of the the year under review and up to the date of approval of this group in higher risk areas of business.
Such a system is designed to appropriately manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Internal audit achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and The Committee monitored and reviewed the work of Internal not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The annual internal audit plan was approved by the Committee at the start of the year and any The Committee discharges its risk management duties using a subsequent changes to that plan have also been approved by combination of reports from management, Internal Audit and the Committee.
The internal audit plan focuses on financial the external auditor.
A risk management reporting structure has controls and compliance with healthcare law.
The work carried been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval out by Internal Audit did not identify any material weaknesses of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the in internal controls but included proposals to enhance control directors in accordance with the Code.
The Committee monitors managements responses The Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including staff from to ensure that control improvements are instigated on a timely the appropriate sections of the business, reviews risk basis.
Following internal staff redeployment, the internal throughout the business.
The Risk Committee maintains a risk audit function is supported by PwC under the direction of management plan that is designed to identify risks, assess the the Audit Committee.
probability of those risks occurring, the impact should they Committee evaluation occur, how such risks are being appropriately mitigated and As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and its delivering the mitigations.
The Committee continues to monitor recommendations for improvement to the Board.
The Committee this process including a consideration of what comprises an was found to be functioning well, however, the following actions acceptable level of risk in key areas and the optimal mitigation were agreed for the year ahead: strategy, having regard to the costs, timelines and likelihood of success of the mitigation options.
The Committee reports its Need to continue to evolve the approach to risk management findings twice-yearly to the Board.
having regard to the speed of change of the Company, the impact of acquisitions and the growing complexity The Group has a Compliance Steering Committee, which is of the Group.
responsible for maintaining a system to ensure that the Group is compliant with all applicable healthcare compliance laws such Increase in focus on defining the Groups risk appetite, its as US Federal and State requirements that relate to the relationship with and contribution to shaping the Groups commercial operations of the Group including the activities of strategy and the effective correlation of the work of the the US sales and marketing team.
The results of ongoing Risk Committee, Compliance and Internal Audit Groups.
monitoring work are reported to the Audit Committee alongside the twice-yearly risk management report.
Additional details of risk management and principal risks that may affect the business are given on pages 30 to 34 in the strategic report.
Whistle-blowing In line with best practice, the Group supports an independent and confidential whistle-blowing procedure and the Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements under which employees may raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial performance or other matters are operating effectively and that appropriate follow-up action takes place.
Included within the Employee Code of Conduct are details of the Groups whistle-blowing policy and displays at each site give details of what employees should do if they have concerns regarding any aspect of the business.
Employees are encouraged BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Governance
