Liz Airey Chairman Appointed Non-executive Director in May 2010 Chairman in September 2014 Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Liz brings a wealth of relevant financial skills and 1.
2. experience in financial governance and executive leadership.
Her previous roles have included Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension Fund 2008-2014, non-executive Chairman of JP Morgan European Smaller Companies Trust PLC 2006-2011 and non-executive Chairman of formerly listed Zetex plc 2003-2007, a manufacturer of specialist semi-conductors.
In 1999 she was appointed a non-executive Director of AMEC plc, and served as Senior Independent Director 2004-2009.
From 1990 Liz was Finance Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc, a post she held until the sale of the company to Lasmo plc in 1999.
Other current roles Liz is currently a Senior Independent Director of 3.
In 2005 she was appointed a nonexecutive Director of Dunedin Enterprise Investment Trust PLC and subsequently became Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Liz is also a member of the Corporate Governance Committee of the ICAEW and carries out mentoring work for Bird & Co Group.
Maarten Slendebroek Chief Executive Officer Appointed Distribution and Strategy Director in September 2012 Chief Executive Officer in March 2014 5.
Committees None Skills and experience Maarten has more than 25 years of asset management and financial services experience including running cross-border asset operations in the international retail sector.
Before joining Jupiter in 2012 as Head of Distribution and Strategy, Maarten spent 18 years at BlackRock and its predecessor companies.
He was a member of the global operating committee and European executive committee at BlackRock.
His last two roles were Head of Solutions EMEA and Head of International Retail.
Maarten has led teams responsible for complex portfolio analytics 7.
As Head of International Retail, he was responsible for the build-out and running of all mutual fund-related business worldwide excluding the United States and Canada.
Earlier in his career, Maarten gained extensive experience as a sell side European equity analyst.
32 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3.
Jonathon Bond Vice Chairman Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed Appointed Appointed Group Chief Executive in 2007 Non-executive Director in May 2010 Non-executive Director in July 2014 Vice Chairman in March 2014 Senior Independent Director in September 2014 Committees Member of the Audit Committee Committees Committees None Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Skills and experience Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience With over 30 years experience in the investment Skills and experience Prior to joining the Skagen Group, Jonathon spent market and 20 years working at Jupiter including Lorraine brings substantial experience in human 25 years in the private equity industry with a seven years as CEO, Edward has extensive resources leadership in the areas of cultural particular focus on governance standards and knowledge of the fund management business.
development, team performance and reward performance.
He was a Founding Partner of Actis Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 as a UK fund both from her executive career and her work on LLP, the emerging markets specialist alternatives manager after working at Schroders 1982-1986 director development.
fund manager, where he spent over 10 years.
He was During that time he was a member of the In her executive career, Lorraine held a number of appointed Chief Investment Officer in 1999 and Supervisory Board, Investment and Executive HR leadership roles in international organisations, Joint Chief Executive in May 2000.
He became Committees as well as setting up and running the focusing on performance and development, these Group CEO in 2007, led Jupiter through its in-house fund raising team.
For a number of years included Citibank NA, the London Stock Exchange management buyout that year and its subsequent Jonathon was a non-executive Director on the and Coutts, part of the NatWest Group.
Edward relinquished his role as Board of Celtel, the first pan-African mobile was a non-executive Director of Aegis Group plc CEO in March 2014 on Maarten Slendebroeks company.
Jonathon previously worked as a between August 2005 and March 2013. appointment.
His role as Vice Chairman focuses founding Director of HSBC Private Equity in India on engaging with the Groups key stakeholders 1994-2000, Electra Private Equity Partners in Other current roles including clients, prospective clients and industry London and Paris 1988-1993 and Bain & Co in In addition to her Board work, Lorraine works in bodies.
London 1985-1988. the area of director development at and around Board level for a variety of international groups.
Other current roles Other current roles She is a non-executive Director of Essentra plc On 1 January 2014, Edward joined the Board of Jonathon is Executive Chairman of the Skagen and Colt Group S. A.
Land Securities Group plc as a non-executive Group, a family office and group of private Director.
companies based in London and operating in the 7.
Jon Little UK, Europe and the USA which includes green cleaning specialists Ecover and Method in its 4.
John Chatfeild-Roberts Independent non-executive Director portfolio.
Chief Investment Officer Appointed Non-executive Director in September 2011 9.
Matteo Dante Perruccio Appointed Chief Investment Officer in February 2010 Independent non-executive Director Committees Member of the Audit Committee Committees Appointed None Non-executive Director in October 2008 Skills and experience Jon has extensive experience of the asset Skills and experience Committees management industry on an international scale John has many years experience in investment Member of the Remuneration Committee through roles with a number of global institutions management and is a Fellow of the Chartered and has considerable experience in running asset Institute for Securities and Investment.
His earlier Skills and experience management businesses in the UK and overseas.
career in fund management was at Lazard Matteo has considerable strategic management Brothers Asset Management 1995-2001 and and business oversight experience within the From 2000 until 2010, he was Vice Chairman of Henderson Administration 1990-1995.
He held a financial services sector.
He has particular BNY Mellon Asset Management and, as part of Short Service Commission in the British Army in experience in international finance and that role, he held a number of positions including the 1980s.
Chairman of Dreyfus - one of the USs oldest mutual fund companies and Chairman of Insight John joined Jupiter in March 2001 to establish and Matteo started his career in financial services in Investments.
He was also a Director of other asset lead the team running the Jupiter Merlin portfolios.
1986, spending six years at San Paolo IMI before managers in the group, including Newton, Walter moving to American Express Bank in 1992 as Scott, Alcentra and Pareto Partners.
From Executive Director, Head of EMEA.
Philip Johnson 1997-2000, Jon was at JP Morgan Investment moved to Pioneer Investment Management to Chief Financial Officer Management where he was Vice President and head up the firms international business before Head of Distribution responsible for International moving to work in Milan, which culminated in his Appointed Funds.
From 1991 to 1997 he was at Fidelity appointment in 2005 as CEO International CEO Chief Financial Officer in October 2009 Investments, latterly as Director of UK Business Pioneer Investment Management SGR, Milan.
Matteo left Pioneer in 2006 to take up the role of Committees None Co-Chief Executive at Olympia Capital Other current roles Management in Paris.
In 2008 he founded and Jon is a Partner in Northill Capital, a private Skills and experience became Chief Executive Officer of Hermes BPK investment business backed by one of Europes With over 20 years in the financial services Partners LLP.
He left Hermes in December 2012 wealthiest families.
Jon is also a Director of Alpha industry, Philip has significant UK financial and and from January to December 2013 he was Strategic PLC.
Chief Executive Officer of Rebacapital, a renewable energy fund investment management Philip started his career at Coopers & Lybrand, company based in London.
where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He left in 1996 to work in Prudential Plcs group head office before transferring to M&G in 2000.
He spent eight years at M&G, the last five as Group Finance Director, after which he joined Marshall Wace LLP as Finance Director in 2008.
Philip is responsible for finance, information technology, investment operations, risk and investor relations.
33 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Matters reserved to the Board Dundas resigned on the grounds of ill health, the Board appointed The Board has established a formal schedule of matters reserved Liz Airey as Chairman.
In addition, Liz was appointed as for its decision.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Following this appointment the role of Senior Independent Director was taken by Lorraine Trainer who, with four years as a Board member at The key issues which are reserved for its decision are: Jupiter, was seen as an appropriate candidate for the position.
establishing the Groups long-term commercial objectives and Board balance and independence strategy: The Board now has nine members, comprising the Chairman, four deciding major acquisitions, disposals and investments: executive Directors and four non-executive Directors.
The Board approving the dividend policy: considers each of its non-executive Directors Jonathon Bond, setting the annual budgets: Jon Little, Lorraine Trainer and Matteo Dante Perruccio to be approving significant capital projects, expenditure and independent in both character and judgement and free of any borrowings: relationship which could materially interfere with exercising their determining the effectiveness of internal controls: and independent judgement.
The Board considered the Chairman to agreeing board membership and other senior appointments be independent within the terms of the Code at her appointment.
including the appointment or removal of the Company The biographies of all Directors are set out earlier in this report.
The Board delegates other matters to the Chief Executive Officer.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
The non-executive Directors constructively Appointments to the Board challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring The roles of Jupiters Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the separated and there is a clear division of responsibilities between Boards deliberations.
After nearly seven years on the Board, these roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Matteo Perruccio has indicated he will not be standing for Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Polly Williams will be Executive Officer is responsible for the execution of the strategy joining the Board in March 2015 as an independent non-executive the Board has agreed and for the day-to-day management of Director and will begin chairing the Audit Committee in May, the Groups business.
At the beginning of 2014 the Board provided her election is approved by the shareholders at the comprised: Annual General Meeting.
Jamie Dundas Chairman : Edward Bonham Carter Chief Operation of the Board Executive Officer : John Chatfeild-Roberts Chief Investment The Board has a rolling agenda which ensures that the key issues Officer, Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer, Maarten set out above, including items relating to strategy, finance, Slendebroek Distribution and Strategy Director, Liz Airey Senior operations, corporate governance and compliance, are Independent Director, Jon Little independent non-executive appropriately reviewed at its meetings.
Director, Matteo Dante Perruccio independent non-executive Director, Lorraine Trainer independent non-executive Director Five scheduled board meetings took place during the year with a and Michael Wilson non-executive Director.
further two ad hoc meetings arranged.
The Board also met off site for a full days discussion of strategy issues.
A schedule of On 17 March 2014 Maarten Slendebroek replaced Edward attendance is set out on the following page.
To enable the Board Bonham Carter as Chief Executive Officer.
In the following May, to function effectively and to assist Directors in discharging their Michael Wilson stepped down.
He was nominated by TA responsibilities, a comprehensive set of papers is circulated Associates, L. P. which held over 10 per cent.
of the Companys approximately one week before Board and Committee share capital during his appointment.
Michael Wilson did not meet meetings.
These include regular business progress reports, the Codes independence criteria.
In order to maintain the Boards budgets, financial statements and shareholder information.
The high standards of financial and governance experience, Jonathon Company Secretary manages the provision of information to the Bond was appointed as an additional independent non-executive Board, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive Director in July.
He facilitates the induction of new Directors and assists with their personal development as required.
He also ensures Change of Chairman Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules During August 2014, it became apparent that Jamie Dundas might and regulations are followed.
The Company Secretary reports to need to step down as Chairman due to ill health.
It had already the Chairman on corporate governance matters.
been agreed that, in such circumstances, Liz Airey, then Senior Key areas discussed by the Board in 2014 Independent Director, would become Interim Chairman.
The Board met twice in the next fortnight to discuss the appointment Jupiters strategic plan of a replacement Chairman should this prove necessary.
As part Regulation and compliance of these meetings the Board discussed, without Liz being present, Risk appetite whether it would be appropriate to appoint her as Chairman on Chairmans succession planning a permanent basis rather than an interim basis.
The Board Remuneration considered the relative merits of an external candidate being Corporate values sought using an external search firm compared to appointing Regular review of fund management performance Liz Airey, who had a deep understanding of Jupiter, acquired since Balance sheet management her appointment in 2010, as well as extensive relevant external Product development experience for the role.
The Board concluded that it would be in 2015 business plan and budget.
the best interests of the Company to appoint Liz Airey as 34 Chairman and, accordingly, on 1 September 2014, when Jamie Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Board requires all Directors to devote sufficient time to their duties and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
The terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors require a commitment to the business of up to 30 days a year and a further commitment of up to 10 days a year is expected of Committee chairmen.
The Chairman held one meeting during the year with non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present.
A meeting is scheduled once a year when the Senior Independent Director meets with the non-executive Directors with neither the Chairman nor Executive Directors being present.
Non-executive Directors also meet with senior management on a regular basis.
Attendance record table The following table details the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2014 and the attendance record of each Director: Number of Meetings held in 2014 Board 7 Audit 6 Remuneration 5 Nomination 3 Liz Airey Jonathon Bond 1 Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Jamie Dundas 2 Philip Johnson Jon Little Matteo Dante Perruccio Maarten Slendebroek Lorraine Trainer Michael Wilson 3 attended scheduled meeting not able to attend scheduled meeting 1 Jonathon Bond was appointed on 1 July 2 Jamie Dundas did not attend some meetings due to ill health.
He resigned on 1 September 3 Michael Wilson resigned on 21 May Effectiveness Induction and development Conflicts of interest New Directors are given a full, formal and tailored induction to the The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to business, including meetings with senior management and consider and authorise situations where a Director has an actual advisers.
The Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, is or potential conflict of interest in relation to the Group.
The Board responsible for ensuring that training programmes are provided to has a formal system to record conflicts and, if appropriate, to Directors either directly or by the Company through legal and authorise them.
Conflicts of interest are included as an agenda regulatory updates.
Non-executive Directors also have access to item at each Board meeting.
When authorising conflicts or external programmes.
Jupiter expects Directors to take potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the terms of the responsibility for identifying their own training needs and to ensure Companys Articles of Association, the Director concerned may that they are adequately informed about Jupiters business and not take part in the Boards decision making.
Non-conflicted their responsibilities as a Director.
The Chairman regularly reviews Directors are required to act in a way they consider would be in and agrees training and development needs with each Director.
the best interests of the Company and most likely to promote the success of the Company.
These procedures on conflicts of interest Directors have access to independent professional advice at the have been followed throughout the year, are overseen by the Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary to Nomination Committee and are considered to have operated discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors have access to effectively.
the Company Secretarys advice and services.
35 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Succession planning Accountability The Nomination Committee is responsible for both executive and Within the statement of Directors responsibilities they have non-executive Director succession planning and recommends new included a statement that the Annual Report and Accounts appointments to the Board.
When making Board appointments, present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the the Board seeks to ensure that there is a diverse range of skills, Groups position and prospects.
To help the Board discharge its background and experience, including industry experience.
responsibilities in this area a paper from the Company Secretary Further information is included in the Nomination Committee was considered, reminding them of their responsibilities and report.
setting out some key considerations to help them with their assessment.
In carrying out its review of the Annual Report and Director re-election Accounts, the Board took into account the guidance from the All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Financial Reporting Council on best practice.
In particular the Companys Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by Board considered whether: shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
Accordingly, Jonathon Bond and Polly the business model and strategy were clearly described: Williams are seeking election.
Jonathons biographical details can the assessment of performance was balanced: be found earlier in this report.
Details of Pollys skills, and current KPIs were used consistently: and previous experience are set out in the Notice of Annual the language used was concise with good linkages to different General Meeting which accompanies this report.
Also in parts of the document: accordance with the Code, all serving Directors with the exception an appropriate forward looking orientation was adopted: and of Matteo Dante Perruccio, will seek re-election at the 2015 Annual there was consistency with the results presentation to analysts on General Meeting.
The Chairman believes that the individual the website Directors performances continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their roles and that their respective skills The statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the complement each other to enhance the Boards overall operation.
Annual Report and Accounts is set out at the end of this Governance Section.
Their report on the going concern basis of accounting, which the Directors have determined to be appropriate, can be found in the Directors report.
The Strategic report describes the Groups performance during the year.
Internal control and risk management Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only a reasonable assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, carried out its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2014.
This covered all material controls including the following operational, financial and compliance aspects: Compliance Reviewing the method by which the Executive Committee gains assurance that the business is operated in alignment with the risk appetite set by the Board examining the whole of the regulatory control environment within the Group.
Operational Reviewing the Risk Committees heat map methodology and overseeing the roles of various committees in overseeing risk within the business.
Financial Receiving and reviewing an annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer on the Groups anti-money laundering and fraud prevention financial crime measures.
The Board is of the view that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups principal risks to achieving its strategic objectives works effectively.
The process was in place for the year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and: is regularly reviewed by the Board: and complies with the guidance, Internal Controls: Revised Guidance for Directors formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
36 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Board is also of the view that: Approach to risk The Board determines the appropriate approach to risks within necessary actions have been, or are being taken, to remedy any which the Group must operate.
Risk tolerances are the Groups significant failings identified as part of the ongoing risk actual boundaries and limits through which the business monitors management process: and and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board.
Risks and the no significant weaknesses were identified during the year.
Groups attitude to them are considered and monitored in the following categories: Supplier oversight and significant contracts During the financial year, Jupiter had three significant outsourced Strategic risk relationships with third-party organisations: The Northern Trust The risk that the Group is unable to meet its strategic Company Northern Trust, International Financial Data Services 1 objectives as a result of matters inherent in the nature IFDS, and HSBC Securities Services HSBC.
of its business or the markets in which it operates.
Operational risk Northern Trust provided custodial services in respect of the The risk of loss caused by weaknesses or failures in Groups private client contracts up to the date of its disposal.
2 the Groups systems and controls, related to people, systems or processes.
These include risks arising from IFDS provides a number of services, including dealing and failing properly to manage key outsourced registration processing, distribution of income, record keeping and relationships.
Liquidity risk HSBC provides fund accounting services and passive hedging The risk that the Group may be unable to meet its services.
Capital risk These organisations activities are defined in service level The risk that the Group may lack sufficient capital to agreements and they are closely monitored to ensure that service 4 be able to operate as a going concern.
Counterparty credit risk Assurance process The risk of loss caused by the corporate failure of one The Groups control environment is reviewed during the course of 5 of the trade, prime brokerage or treasury a year by one or more of the three assurance functions counterparties to which the Group may be exposed, Compliance, Operational Risk and Internal Audit.
Assurance or by a custodial institution with which the Group has reports are provided to senior management, the Board and the a relationship.
Regulatory reputational risk The risk of censure because of the Groups failure to Each year, Jupiter commissions the external auditors to test the 6 meet its regulatory obligations, which may lead to integrity of aspects of the Group-wide control environment.
Jupiter reputational damage, a monetary fine or, ultimately, has adopted the International Standard on Assurance the withdrawal of its authorisation to carry on business.
Engagement ISAE 3402 together with AAF 01 06 as recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales in the November 2010 technical release of Depending on the risk category, the Risk Committee or the AAF 01 06.
The results of this testing, including any exceptions Balance Sheet Management Committee will monitor these.
If the identified, are made available to the Groups institutional and latter has any concerns, those concerns will also then be investment company clients.
considered by the Risk Committee.
Risk management framework Risk management process The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk strategy The foundation of the Groups risk framework is the departmental and for determining an appropriate risk appetite, as well as the risk self-assessment process.
Each functional business area tolerance levels, within which the Group must operate.
By defining completes a risk assessment on a four-monthly basis, which, these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, where when taken in conjunction with the ongoing monthly control appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks that performance assessments, is adequate for capturing any ongoing may have a material impact on the Group.
and emerging risks to the business.
To assist with its oversight of risk, the Executive Committee has The departmental risk self-assessments are conducted by the formed an executive Risk Committee chaired by the Chief heads of each functional area and are facilitated by the Financial Officer.
All members of the Executive Committee attend Operational Risk Team.
The work is informed by any loss data or the Risk Committee, together with the Heads of Compliance, near miss control failure information and takes into account any Operational Risk and Investment Risk.
The Committee is topical system, process or staffing changes within the department responsible for overseeing regulatory, capital and liquidity risks as well as considering the integrity of existing processes and within a coherent and manageable structure.
Where processes or controls are seen to be insufficiently robust, line management is required to define improvements to the operating environment to ensure they pose a minimal or acceptable level of risk to the Group.
37 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Identified risks that are deemed to have a sufficiently high Relations with shareholders likelihood of potential impact on the Group, will be reflected in the Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and is firms high-level risk map in order to ensure that they receive an conducted to promote a common understanding of the Groups appropriately high level of senior management and Board objectives.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer attention.
The Board will be expected to take action where these monitor investor relations closely and maintain a regular dialogue risks are deemed to be outside the Groups risk tolerance.
with major shareholders, potential investors, fund managers and analysts.
During 2014, they held over 100 such meetings.
The The Groups risk management assurance programme is closely Chairmans usual dialogue with shareholders focuses on strategy, linked with its compliance monitoring programme.
Any breaches corporate governance and Directors remuneration.
The Directors found by the Compliance department are logged into the receive a report at Board meetings giving information on changes in-house error database and allocated to a failed control and the in shareholders and any feedback from the Companys brokers associated risk category.
The business therefore considers any and investors.
breaches as part of the risk and control assessment process.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Management, with the assistance of the Finance function, is Meeting and to put their questions to the Directors and to the responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records Chairmen of the Boards committees in person.
The Company and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, communicates electronically with its shareholders whenever reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations possible and in order to reduce wasted resources and pollution and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
associated with paper printing, shareholders are encouraged to accept electronic access to the Notice of Meeting and Annual Management completes a review of the consolidation and Report and Accounts which will be made available at least financial statements to ensure that the Groups financial position 20 clear days prior to the AGM on the Companys web site at and results are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of www.
the Board and published where appropriate.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of The Company also holds briefings following the announcement of the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
the interim and year-end financial results.
Presentations to analysts and investors are simultaneously posted on the Companys web Monitoring functions site.
In 2014 due to ill health, Jamie Dundas was unable to attend The Groups monitoring functions comprise a Compliance post-results meetings with shareholders.
As part of the process of department and an Internal Audit department currently ensuring that good channels of communication are in place, and outsourced to EY.
in order to maintain an understanding of the view of the major shareholders about the Company, Liz Airey has arranged The Compliance department oversees compliance by the Group meetings with key shareholders which are scheduled to take place with the relevant regulatory rules.
The Group maintains during 2015. comprehensive procedures and compliance manuals covering all business operations.
The Groups Compliance department also In 2014, the Remuneration Committee Chairman engaged with maintains detailed monitoring programmes for all regulated investors regarding Jupiters remuneration policy and disclosures in activities to monitor the perceived regulatory risk within the business.
The Senior Independent Director is The findings of the monitoring programmes are circulated in full to available to meet shareholders on request if they have concerns the relevant Directors and executive summaries are provided to the that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
which such contact is not appropriate.
The Internal Audit function is focused on ensuring that operations comply with the Groups policies and procedures, including in Key Investor Relations activities in 2014 relation to efficient operations, financial reporting, fraud, February 2014 safeguarding assets and compliance with laws and regulations.
Full year results presentation for 2014 The internal audit team is independent of business operations and has a reporting line to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Group March 2014 periodically utilises external parties to review counterparty Full year results London roadshow relationships.
This includes the reviewing of legal documentation April 2014 as well as testing the operations of external service providers.
Investor roadshow, Scotland Annual General Meeting Further details of the Internal Audit function can be found in the June 2014 Audit Committee report.
Investor roadshow, USA July 2014 Remuneration Half year results presentation Executive Directors remuneration is structured to promote the September 2014 long-term success of the business, with variable remuneration paid Half year results London roadshow to executive Directors based on stretching performance conditions which are aligned with the strategy of the business.
No executive October November 2014 Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
Further Investor dialogue relating to remuneration policy and information on the Jupiter remuneration policy and executive Remuneration report Director remuneration outcomes for 2014 is set out in the Remuneration report.
38 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
