THE LEADERSHIP FRAMEWORK Board committees The Board The Boards committees are the Nomination, Audit and The Board is responsible for the leadership and management Remuneration committees which operate within defined terms of of the Group and for setting strategic aims.
It is led by the reference.
These committees are entirely composed of Chairman who, at her appointment, met the criteria for independent non-executive Directors.
The terms of reference are independence set out in the Code.
The Board comprises executive published on the Companys web site: www.
com and non-executive Directors with an effective balance of skills, knowledge and experience for running the Groups business.
It The Chief Executive Officer and executive Directors has established a number of Board committees as well as The Chief Executive Officer and the executive Directors, are management committees.
responsible for managing the Groups day-to-day business and for ensuring the implementation of strategy.
The committees of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the executive Directors and their management committees complete Management committees the Boards framework of control.
The Chief Executive Officer has established six principal management committees which assist with the management of the Groups day-to-day activities.
The activities of the principal management committees are set out in the framework below.
Board of Directors Role Members Determining strategy Chairman, four non-executive Directors and four executive Directors Setting Controls and Values Monitoring Performance Board Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Role Role Role Composition of Board Financial Reporting Implementation of Remuneration Policy Succession Issues Audit management and compliance Management and review of Evaluation of eectiveness Risk Management and Internal Controls benets and rewards Members Members Members Chairman Chairman Chairman Two non-executive Directors Three non-executive Directors Three non-executive Directors Board of Directors Chief Executive Ocer Executive Committee Role Members Meets weekly Implementing strategy and Three executive Directors objectives set by the Board Chief Operating Ocer Managing Performance Reporting Committees Risk Operations Product Development Balance Sheet Management TCF Establishing risk tolerances Supporting the review Considering new Establishes and maintains Seeks to ensure all funds Management of risks of operational issues product proposals balance sheet policies are managed and within tolerances Review of health and Managing and supporting Reviews Groups procedures operated within agreed Reviewing eectiveness of safety risks and practices compliance requirements from balance sheet guidelines which ensure risk management process Supporting the Executive of new products management perspective fair treatment of customers Committee to implement Works with sub-committees agreed changes eectively to ensure this approach is operated throughout 31 the Group Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
