NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder, Role of the Committee Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee, my first The Committees role and responsibilities include: report as Chairman of this Committee since my appointment last September.
reviewing and nominating candidates to fill both executive and non-executive Board vacancies: The Nomination Committee has an important role in ensuring the considering succession planning for Directors and senior Board has the optimal composition: a good balance of the executives: experience and skills required together with appropriate diversity reviewing the Companys policy and practices for executive of thought and perspective.
The Committee actively undertakes talent management, development and diversity: succession planning for both executive and non-executive evaluating the Boards structure, balance of skills, knowledge Directors and it makes recommendations to the Board when and experience required to underpin its continued changes may be appropriate.
It is responsible for determining the effectiveness: best selection process, involving choosing the external recruitment considering the ongoing contribution of Directors having firm to help with identifying external candidates as well as itself regard to their performance and continuing contribution to the identifying internal candidates for appointment to the Board if Board and its Committees and when appropriate to appropriate.
Selected candidates are interviewed by the recommend to shareholders their re-election at the Annual Committee and meet other Directors and senior managers as General Meeting.
appropriate, before being nominated to the Board, which makes the final decision on Board appointments.
The Committees terms of reference are available for inspection on the Company`s website www.
com During the year, the Boards composition and succession planning remained a major focus with a number of non-executive changes.
In May, Michael Wilson stepped down and in July, Jonathon Bond Committee members was appointed a non-executive Director.
Jamie Dundas resigned At the beginning of 2014, the Committee was chaired by Jamie from the Board in September and I was appointed to succeed Dundas and Liz Airey and Lorraine Trainer were members.
As a result a search for a new non-executive Director to take Following the changes to the composition of the Board which my place as Chairman of the Audit Committee was commenced.
are explained earlier in the Governance section, Liz Airey now Since the year end the successful conclusion of this search has chairs the Nomination Committee.
Its other members are been announced with the appointment of Polly Williams.
The Jonathon Bond and Lorraine Trainer.
Governance report explains these changes in further detail.
In July, the Committee recommended the appointment of Committee meeting attendees Independent Audit Limited, a well regarded independent Details of attendance by members of Board committees are set organisation specialising in the evaluation of Board Effectiveness, out in the Governance report.
While only members of the and with no previous connections with the Company, to carry out Committee have the right to attend the Committees meetings, an evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
Further details can from time to time others are invited to attend the discussion be found later in this report.
relevant to particular agenda items.
These include other non-executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief The Nomination Committee also reviewed the Companys diversity Operating Officer and the HR Director.
Representatives of the policy for the Board and has continued its work overseeing the appointed external recruitment consultants also attend meetings Companys talent management and succession planning.
Liz Airey Chairman 25 February 2015 39 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued During the autumn of 2014 an externally facilitated evaluation of Overview of the activities in 2014 the Board and its Committees was conducted by Independent The Committee is required to meet at least twice each year and Audit Limited, a specialist independent consultancy.
The evaluation three meetings were scheduled in 2014.
Further meetings take report was received in December and concluded that the Board place as required to consider immediate non-executive or senior and Committees are working effectively and have in place executive recruitment or other matters relevant to the Committees excellent foundations for further development to support Jupiters duties.
In 2014, the Committee met on two further occasions.
The main recommendations were to: Committee reports formally to the Board on its proceedings.
take the opportunity of reviewing the split of responsibilities In March 2014 it was announced that Michael Wilson would step between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer following down as a non-executive Director on 21 May 2014, following the the appointment of a new Chairman and CEO in 2014: sale by TA Associates LP and related parties of their holding in the continue to develop the inductions offered to non-executive Company`s shares.
An independent recruitment consultancy, The Directors by increasing the time they spend in the business: Zygos Partnership, had already been instructed to undertake a enhance the amount of Board contact outside Board meetings: search for an additional non-executive Director and in May we and were pleased to announce that Jonathon Bond would join the consider continued improvements to the preparation and Board as a non-executive Director in July.
His business dissemination of Board papers.
background in private equity with its focus on performance, together with his experience in the UK and overseas add to the The Committee will be proposing to the Board how the Board`s strengths.
He subsequently joined this Committee with recommendations can best be implemented.
Diversity The search for an additional non-executive Director to become The Committee considers diversity when looking to appoint the Chairman of the Audit Committee was commenced additional Directors.
It is a prerequisite that each Board member immediately after Liz Aireys appointment as Chairman on must have the skills, experience and character to contribute both 1 September and Korn Ferry was appointed to undertake the individually and as part of the Board team, to the effectiveness of search assignment.
The Committee identified the skills, knowledge the Board and the success of the Company.
Subject to that and experience that would be required and the search has overriding principle, the Board believes that diversity, amongst its resulted in the appointment of Polly Williams who will join the members, including gender diversity, is of great value and it is the Board in March 2015.
Polly is a Chartered Accountant and was Board`s policy to give careful consideration to issues of overall a partner in KPMGs financial services practice for a number of Board balance and diversity, in making new appointments to the years.
Polly is an experienced Audit Committee Chairman and Board.
Female directors currently constitute 22 per cent.
of the will bring new insights to the role.
Following Polly Williams appointment in March 2015, female Directors will constitute 30 per cent.
The Non-executive Director searches Board aims to maintain the proportion of females on the Board at During the year Jupiter used two independent consultants for least at the current number and to increase the number if recruiting non-executive Directors, The Zygos Partnership, and appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies Korn Ferry.
Neither of these organisations have any other arise.
The Companys statement on diversity is available at: connection to the Company, though Zygos has been used for www.
com several previous non-executive recruitments.
The Company operates a policy of equal opportunity, details of Board effectiveness which can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report.
The Committee has reviewed the Directors standing for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM with Committee members recusing Conflicts themselves in respect of their own review, taking into account During the year, the Committee continued its review of the their effectiveness and commitment.
It has also considered the operation by the Board of the Conflict of Interest policy to identify independence of the non-executive Directors and is satisfied that and, where appropriate, manage conflicts or potential conflicts of they are independent in both character and judgment, in interest.
Further details of the operation of this policy can be found accordance with the Code.
All the Directors standing for election in the Directors report.
or re-election at the Annual General Meeting are recommended by the Committee.
40 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
