AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder, who would bring a private-equity like focus on performance and I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committees report for 2014. the fundamentals of the business model.
Following an external This will be my last report in this role.
As the Chairmans Statement search, I am pleased to say that Jonathon Bond joined the Board explains, during the autumn I took on the role of Chairman of the and the Audit Committee.
His contribution in both roles has been Company itself, following the early retirement due to ill health of much in evidence since.
The Committee now comprises four my predecessor, Jamie Dundas.
As a result, we started a search non-executive Directors, including me, and will remain as four for a new non-executive Director, who would also become members during 2015 as I shall step down as a Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As previously announced, Polly Williams has been appointed as a The Committees terms of reference are available on the non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2015 and she will Companys website and both Polly and I will be available at our chair the Audit Committee.
Polly is highly qualified for the role.
She AGM on 15 April 2015 to answer questions about the Committees is a chartered accountant and was a partner in KPMGs financial work.
services practice for a number of years.
She is also an experienced audit committee chairman and currently chairs the Liz Airey audit committees of three financial services entities including TSB Chairman of the Audit Committee Banking Group plc.
We very much look forward to Polly taking on the role and to the insights and good practice she will bring with 25 February 2015 her for 2015 and beyond.
The Committees role and principal responsibilities are set out on the opposite page.
Our explanation of how we carried them out Role of the Committee during 2014, and how we satisfied ourselves that we had done so The Committees roles and responsibilities include: effectively, is set out in the full Committee report that follows.
overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes: In last years introduction to the Audit Committee report, I monitoring and reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk explained the context in which the Committee works.
I reflected on management systems: the Groups quite specific business model, its compact reviewing the external and internal audit work plans, their organisation, its limited geographical footprint, its strong culture of findings and their effectiveness: excellence and respect for clients, and its highly regulated overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and operating environment.
performance of the Groups internal and external auditors: and reporting to the Board on how the Committee discharges its One year on, these continue to be key Jupiter characteristics.
methodical, risk-aware way, management is pursuing the Groups strategy to deliver value to its shareholders through significant Committee members increases in funds under management.
In 2014, managements focus was on ensuring we had robust strategic building blocks in Liz Airey currently chairs the Committee but will relinquish that place: the right organisational and fund management structures, role on the appointment of the new Audit Committee Chairman IT and operational processes, and the need to have an in early 2015.
The Committees members are Jonathon Bond, Jon embedded statement of corporate values.
The Group also Little and Lorraine Trainer, all of whom are independent simplified its business model by disposing of the private client non-executive Directors.
All of the Committee members, including Liz Airey, are In 2014 the Audit Committee carried out its work against this considered by the Board to be appropriately experienced and backdrop.
Whilst its routine work programme was completed as qualified to fulfil their duties on this Committee, with Liz Airey usual, the focus of its specific reviews reflects the way being considered to have recent and relevant financial management is implementing the Groups corporate strategy.
The Committee members profiles in the Board of terms of the Committees routine work, our relationship with the Directors section detail their qualifications and experience.
external auditor came under specific review as this year we undertook an external audit tender.
Details of how we carried this Committee meeting attendees out are contained in the report below.
I would like to pay tribute Only Committee members have the right to attend the to the quality, enthusiasm and professionalism of the teams from Committees meetings.
Representatives of the Groups external all three audit firms who participated in the tender process.
It and internal auditors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of made our choice exceptionally difficult, however, we were the Board, other non-executive Directors and members of the particularly impressed with PwCs approach to supporting the senior management team are invited to attend the Committees Groups international growth plans.
It therefore resulted in a meetings where appropriate.
decision to recommend the re-appointment of PwC, who presented for appointment under a new partner, Jeremy Jensen As part of its routine meetings, the Committee meets at least the current partner having served for the maximum allowable twice a year with the internal and external auditors, without time.
Ahead of the Committees meetings, the Committee Chairman has separate meetings with The Audit Committee conducts its own effectiveness reviews the internal and external auditors, to prepare for the Audit alongside those led by the Board and the Nomination Committee Committee meeting itself.
on the composition and membership of Committees.
During the year we determined that both the Board and Audit Committee 41 would benefit from fresh insight and perspective from somebody Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Committee meetings Overview of activities in 2014 The Committees terms of reference require it to meet at least During the year, the Audit Committee completed its full annual three times a year.
It also meets at other times, as necessary.
cycle of regular agenda items.
The Committee sets these in advance to ensure its work fulfils the requirements of the UK As detailed in the Governance review, the Committee held six Corporate Governance Code and other relevant regulations.
Two meetings had short agendas, with the work included overseeing the Groups complete external reporting primary focus of those meetings being a proposed trading cycle and its internal assurance functions, as well as reviewing and update and an interim Management Statement respectively.
reappointing both the internal and external auditors.
As discussed in more detail later in this report, the Committee formally tendered The Committees work during the year the Groups external audit, which resulted in the decision to External financial reporting recommend to the Board that PwC be put forward for The Committee reviewed the Groups half-year and annual shareholder approval for re-appointment as external auditor for financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, as well 2015 onwards.
as the external auditors reports on the outcome of their reviews and audits in 2014.
The Committee considered that, in relation to The Committee complemented its regular annual work the Groups financial statements and disclosures, the significant programme with reviews of topics of particular interest and issues which arose and the main areas of judgement were the: relevance, which the Committee determined on a rolling basis during the year.
A fuller description of the Committees regular 1. carrying value of goodwill: activities and topics of focus is included later in this report.
2. valuation of accrued income and accrued expenses: 3. share-based payments expense: and The Committee carried out a formal annual review of its own 4. the sale of private client contracts.
effectiveness and concluded that it had performed its duties effectively and had successfully followed up on the findings of the Each of these items requires management to make judgements as to 2013 effectiveness review.
The Committee identified enhancements their treatment.
The Committee and PwC therefore scrutinise them for 2015 and beyond, in particular to deepen its members closely.
To enable the Committee to do this, management prepares knowledge of the executive Risk Committees work, as well as to a briefing paper that summarises the nature of the item and why it is ensure that the Committee most effectively reviews topics of interest.
considered to be a key judgement in preparing the Groups financial statements.
The Committee considers the judgements and the The pie chart set out below shows the approximate proportion appropriateness of the resulting disclosures in the financial of its time that the Committee spent on the stated aspects statements, and requests follow-up analysis where necessary.
matter of good practice, the Committee also asks PwC to confirm if they agree with the judgements made by management.
6 1 As a result of the Group structure adopted at the time of the management buyout in 2007, the Group has goodwill of 341.2m on 17% its balance sheet.
The Committee was presented with the results of 26% the 2014 year-end impairment review, which demonstrated very 2 substantial headroom.
The Committee was satisfied that no impairment was required.
8% Allocation of time 3 With respect to accrued income and expenses, the Committee reviewed the key assumptions behind the amounts included in the 10% financial statements for areas where judgement had been applied.
The most significant item in accrued expenses at the year 22% end was, as in previous years, the level of the annual bonus 17% accrual.
Bonuses are not paid until after the date of signing the 5 4 financial statements, as such an accrual for the charge is made, based on the calculated bonus pool and the amounts approved by the Remuneration Committee which looks at bonuses on a 1 Governance 2 Non-Risk related topics of focus total view as well as on an individual view for certain employees.
3 Internal Audit The Committee reviews the amount of the bonus pool, as well as 4 Compliance 5 Risk including relevant topics of focus the estimated levels of deferral into both options over the 6 Finance & External Audit Companys shares or a cash equivalent value of units in the Groups funds.
Since options under the deferred bonus plan are not granted until April, the Committee looks at both the expected As in previous years, the Committee continued to build on the level of share grants applicable to the year as well as reviewing existing awareness of the importance of its activities within the the quality of prior year estimates.
The Audit Committee ensures business.
The Committee also reviewed its terms of reference and that the information used by the Remuneration Committee to associated meeting procedures and made some minor changes.
recommend individual payments is considered and consistent with the process for calculating the overall charge.
The Committee has an ongoing training programme.
In addition to attending seminars on relevant topics during the year, the With respect to share-based payments, the Committee has in the Committee members received updates from both the external past reviewed in detail the valuation process which is by means of auditors, PwC, and the internal auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
an independent experts model for share options and awards, 42 including the underlying judgements and assumptions and the Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 number of shares and options expected to vest as a result.
At this As part of its routine control and risk management work, the year end, it satisfied itself that this process was being consistently Committee also reviewed: used and the underlying basis was still appropriate.
the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, prior During the year, the Group announced and then completed the to its submission to the Board: sale of its private client contracts to Rathbones Investment the Groups AAF 01 06 ISAE 3402 report, prior to despatch to Management.
The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements, institutional clients: including the accrual of costs relating to completion, in the Interim the Client Assets Sourcebook Regulatory Report undertaken by Report and Accounts and also reviewed the disclosures in both the external auditors, prior to submission to the FCA: and the Interim and full year Annual Report and Accounts.
There were the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
To date there have no significant areas of judgement relating to this transaction at the been no calls to the confidential helpline provided by an year end.
In addition, the Committee considered the adoption of IFRS 10 Towards the end of its annual work cycle, and in line with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the impact of this on the Financial Reporting Councils guidance, the Committee reviewed a Group, specifically the associated restatement.
The restatement report from the Compliance Director on the overall system of resulted in a gross-up of the 2013 balance sheet and statement of internal control and risk management.
This, together with the cash flows, as well as the requirement to include a restated reports given to the Board by the Committee in relation to the balance sheet as at 1 January 2013.
There was no impact on overall system, enabled the Committee to assist the Board in its opening reserves or the income statement.
own subsequent review of the adequacy of the Groups system of internal controls, for the Annual Report and Accounts.
Going Concern The Committee also considered the Groups position as a going The Audit Committee places consideration of risk at the heart of concern at both the half-year and year-end.
This assessment was all its activities.
In addition to its regular meetings, the Committee informed by the Groups business and cash flow projections and has achieved this by maintaining a close and open dialogue with their sensitivities, the current net cash balance and the loan facilities executive management and the Groups assurance functions available to the Group.
The Committee considered that the Groups throughout the year.
Reports from the executive Risk Committee current surplus capital and cash liquidity were both well above the highlight issues across the Groups potential risk areas, including levels which might bring the going concern basis into question.
operational, investment, market, credit, liquidity and counterparty risk, as well as risks inherent in the Groups broader business The Committee also reviewed a number of other factors, over a environment.
timescale up to the end of 2017.
These included liquidity management and cash generation from operations, contingent In line with the Groups three lines of defence control assurance liabilities, unfavourable market scenarios versus the Groups core model, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of business forecasts and other risks to the Groups operations or balance controls.
This assessment is informed by any material or potentially sheet position.
After reviewing these factors, the Committee material errors or breaches, as well as regular reports from the considered that none cast significant doubt on the Groups ability independent Compliance and Risk functions, with Internal Audit to continue as a going concern.
The Committee therefore providing verification or challenge as appropriate.
The Committee considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of is informed of any material changes to the Groups control accounting in preparing the half-year and annual financial environment, and in 2014 received reports showing the process statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, and did not and control interfaces across and between departments, in order identify any material uncertainties or notify the Board of any to highlight any potential areas of weakness.
qualifications or assumptions as to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the Topics of focus date of approving such financial statements.
In addition to the routine activities described above, during the year the Committee also identified topics of focus for review.
This During the year, the Committee also undertook reviews for the was primarily based on their importance to the Groups strategy Board of certain Interim Management Statements and trading or current or anticipated regulatory focus.
The main topics updates, prior to their release.
covered during 2014 and to date in 2015, which were presented to the Committee by senior stakeholders in the relevant business Internal controls and risk management systems areas, were: At each of its regular meetings, the Committee received a report from: Distribution relationship management with institutional clients: and the Compliance Director, who reported on regulatory arrangements for paying rebates and trail commissions.
compliance across the Group and the status of any other compliance matters: Platform the Head of Operational Risk, who provided a report from the IT work focus, including cyber security: executive Risk Committee and an update on operational risk data management within the Group and in relation to data held performance: by the Groups suppliers: and the Head of Internal Audit, who reported on the status of the programme change assurance in relation to specific ongoing internal audit programme and any recommendations for projects within the Group, including the sale of the Groups changes to it: and private client contracts to Rathbones.
the Head of Legal, who provided an update on litigation as appropriate.
43 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Risk and governance and approved PwCs terms of engagement and the proposed fee the tender of the Groups external audit work: for the 2014 audit.
In addition, as part of its annual work cycle, the implementation of the Groups corporate values: Committee carried out a full review of the external auditors how management sets and monitors the Groups culture: and effectiveness, following the 2013 audit.
This review took the form of the Groups tax framework and associated internal processes a questionnaire completed by representatives from the and controls.
Committee, the Board, Finance, Compliance and Operations.
A summary of the scores and key messages was presented to the These reviews have a particular emphasis on risk and the subsequent Audit Committee meeting.
presenters are required to highlight to the Committee any potential risk areas or areas where controls may need enhancing.
As part of the process, the Committee followed the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees and satisfied itself with respect to The combination of the routine annual activities and the topics of the external auditors qualifications, expertise, resources and focus means that the Committee has been able to carry out a independence.
The Committee continues to believe that PwC robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and its ability to conducts its audit work with objectivity and to a high standard.
This included assessing the risks that might this basis, it believes the external audit process to be effective, threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or although it will only carry out its detailed review of the 2014 audit liquidity.
There are no contractual obligations restricting Jupiters choice of external auditor, other than in respect Internal audit function of EYs appointment as internal auditors.
EY were appointed to provide the Groups internal audit function in 2008.
The internal auditors report directly to the Audit The Audit Committee has a primary responsibility to safeguard the Committee and, in addition to submitting status reports for each external auditors objectivity and independence.
To achieve this, it Committee meeting, provide Committee members with copies of has developed and implemented a policy which the Board has any internal audit reports completed between meetings.
This policy is regularly reviewed and was unchanged status reports tabled at meetings include findings and during the year.
It provides that certain types of non-audit services recommendations, as well as the Groups progress with are pre-approved, whilst others are not permitted under any implementing previous recommendations.
These help inform the circumstances.
Prohibited services are those where the Committee Committees discussion of any required follow-up.
The Committee considers that the associated threats to auditor independence are works with the internal auditors to ensure that their work is unacceptable.
Pre-approved services are those considered to embedded in the business and is co-ordinated with that of the have a low threat to auditor independence.
During the year, the Committee amended the pre-approved services still need the Committees approval if the Internal Audit Charter and some aspects of internal audits way of expected fee exceeds 50,000. working, to bring it into line with best practice.
These changes should further embed internal audit into the Groups operations.
The Committee must approve in advance any proposed services which are neither pre-approved nor prohibited.
In such During 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed the internal auditors circumstances, the Committee will need to be persuaded that it is performance and effectiveness.
The Committee did this by in the Groups best interests for the external auditors to be reviewing the key performance indicators it had set and obtaining appointed and that using the external auditors will not impair their feedback from stakeholders within operations and executive independence and objectivity.
In its reports to the Board in management, as well as from the Audit Committees members.
In relation to the external auditors provision of non-audit services, addition, the Committee received a quality assurance report from the Committee did not identify any matters of concern.
The policy an independent partner of EY.
also sets out certain disclosures the external auditors must make to the Committee, restrictions on employing the external auditors The Committee remains of the view that outsourcing the function former employees, partner rotation and the procedures for to a specialist independent provider is appropriate and helps to approving non-audit services provided by the auditors.
ensure that it is adequately resourced.
The current internal audit plan runs until December 2015, in advance of which the The Committee receives a quarterly report setting out the Committee will consider EYs continued appointment as internal non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the auditors.
The Committee intends that this will include a review of year and the fees charged.
An analysis of fees paid in respect of the internal audit function in 2015 conducted through a third PwCs audit and non-audit services is included within Note 1.3 of partys assessment process.
the financial statements, which covers administrative expenses.
External auditors The value of PwCs non-audit services of 0.2m as a proportion of Routine matters audit services in the year was 25 per cent.
During the year under PwC are the Groups external auditors.
Each year they present to review, the majority of non-audit fees the Group paid to the the Audit Committee the proposed scope of their full-year audit external auditors were in relation to two main areas.
These were plan, together with a review plan for the half-year.
This includes advice relating to taxation and remuneration.
Remuneration their assessment of the material risks to the Groups audit and advice included assistance in respect of changes to remuneration their proposed materiality levels, for the Committees discussion regulations and the provision of asset management remuneration and agreement.
PwC attend all of the Committees regular survey data for management.
PwC was used in these areas due meetings and also provide reports on topics such as the control to the existing relationship which aids the understanding of the environment and key accounting and regulatory matters, as well Groups business and structure and thus the ability to provide as their reports on the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for the Groups 44 relationship with the external auditors.
During the year it reviewed Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 In addition, the Group spent 0.2m on audit-related assurance Reappointment of PwC services.
These predominantly related to four main pieces of work Based on the outcome of the tender process, the Committees which the Committee believes would be impractical and or not satisfactory assessment of the external auditors performance and cost effective for another audit firm to provide.
They were: a the its work to safeguard their independence, the Committee half yearly review: b the Jupiter report on Internal Controls AAF considers that it is in the Groups best interests for 01 06 ISAE 3402 : c the annual client assets assurance report to  LLP to continue to act as the Groups the FCA: and d regulatory audits for various overseas branches.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the external auditors Board that a resolution to re-appoint them be proposed to were best placed to provide all of these non-audit services and shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
that the arrangements in place between Jupiter and the external auditors are sufficient to ensure that PwCs objectivity and Liz Airey independence have been safeguarded.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 February 2015 External audit tender PwC have been the Groups statutory auditors since 2001.
Prior to 2014, the Group had not conducted a tender for this work and the last rotation of the audit partner responsible for the Companys account took place in 2010.
In the 2013 Annual Report, the Committee set out its intention to conduct a formal tender for the external audit, in line with the latest best practice in this area.
Following the publication of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, and with the current audit partner due to rotate after completing the current years audit, the Committee decided to conduct the tender during the autumn of 2014.
The Committee drew up a shortlist of three firms, including PwC, taking into account their knowledge and experience of Jupiters sector and the appropriate specialist and technical capability that a successful tender would require.
Each firm submitted a list of candidates for audit partner and the Chairman of the Committee decided which partner from each firm should participate in the final presentation to the Committee, with the partner from the successful firm becoming the Groups new audit partner.
The tender process was carried out with an open mind towards a change of auditors, if that would benefit the Group.
Following a comprehensive process and careful consideration of the participating firms, the Committee recommended to the Board that PwC under a new audit partner, Jeremy Jensen was the most suitable firm to serve the Group, based on their approach of evolving the audit process to support Jupiters changing environment and markets.
In December the Board reviewed and accepted the Committees recommendation, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
The tender process complied with the requirements of the 2014 Order, even though the Order only came into force on 1 January 2015 and relates to financial years beginning on or after that date.
Overall, it was a valuable exercise and one which the Committee believes will bring a number of benefits to the Group via an improved audit process.
The Committee will evaluate when next to tender the external audit in line with applicable guidelines.
45 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
