AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT FROM DAVID SLEATH, ROLE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committees principal role is to ensure that the Company has I am pleased to present our Audit Committee report for 2014, the effective governance over the Groups financial reporting, including purpose of which is to give shareholders an overview of the operation the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the and scope of the Committees function and to report on its activities internal and external audit functions and the management of the undertaken over the past year.
Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
In particular the Committee is responsible for: The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council includes a number of provisions relating monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements to the role and reporting requirements of Audit Committees and of the Group and the significant financial reporting judgements accordingly this report has been prepared in accordance with the contained in them: relevant provisions of the 2012 edition of the Code which applied reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal to the financial year ended 31 December 2014. financial controls: Throughout 2014 our activities continued to be focused on the reviewing the process for the management of risk and reviewing integrity of the financial reporting and the related controls of the the assurance procedures over controls designed to manage Group.
The Committee has a clearly defined role in the corporate key risks: governance framework of listed companies and acts independently overseeing the Companys internal audit activities: of management to ensure that the interests of our shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and audit reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys relationship integrity and the Companys risk management and internal with the external auditors, including the auditors independence, control environment.
the terms of engagement and fees for the audit and the provision of non-audit services: A key aspect of the Committees work during the year was to initiating and supervising a competitive tender process for the initiate and oversee a competitive tender process for the external external audit as may be required from time to time: audit, further details of which are set out in the report that follows.
Having done so, the Company subsequently appointed making recommendations to the Board in relation to the  LLP PwC as auditors to succeed KPMG appointment of the external auditors: and Audit Plc KPMG].
The transition to the new audit firm has gone well.
developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the PwC have settled in quickly, having been in position for the 2014 external auditors to supply non-audit services.
half year review, and have invested significant time in learning about the Group and its businesses.
The Committee is pleased with their The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and revised by progress to date and the insights which they have brought to the the Board at the end of 2014 following a recommendation made by audit process.
the Committee to take account of the changes made to the role of Audit Committees introduced by the Competition & Markets Authority The significant accounting matters considered by the Committee Order with effect from 1 January 2015.
Pursuant to the Order and the were the accounting for business combinations, the carrying value revised terms of reference, the Committee is now solely responsible of goodwill and other intangible assets, taxation, defined benefit for negotiating and agreeing the external auditors fee, the scope of pension scheme obligations, supplier rebates and provisions.
These the statutory audit and initiating and supervising a competitive tender are discussed in detail in our report below and the Committee is process for the external audit where it is appropriate to do so and to satisfied that these matters have been accounted for appropriately.
make recommendations to the Board as to the external auditors appointment pursuant to any such process.
The current version of The role of Audit Committees is constantly changing and, as a result, the Committees terms of reference is available on the Companys we will continue to keep our agenda under review to ensure that it website, www.
addresses the right issues going forward.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access to the services of the Companys internal audit function and to the external auditors and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to me as the Chairman of the Committee and I held a number of meetings with each of them during the year outside formal Committee meetings.
48 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The Committee will remain focused on the audit, assurance and risk processes within the business, as well as financial reporting itself, and will continue to evolve its activities in line with the regulatory framework and market practice for Audit Committees.
ACTIVITIES reviewing and approving the level and nature of non-audit work As Chairman of the Committee, I hold preparatory discussions with which the external auditors performed during the year, including the Companys senior management, the Head of Internal Audit and the fees paid for such work: the external auditors prior to Committee meetings to discuss the reviewing the principal tax risks applicable to the Company and items to be considered at the Committee meetings.
In addition, the steps taken to manage such risks: and separate discussions are held between the Committee and the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without management as part of an ongoing programme to review specific areas relating present.
I also attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any to financial reporting matters within the Groups businesses, shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees receiving and considering a presentation about the finance function activities.
The Committee met on five occasions during the year and control environment within the Groups operations in Brazil.
and members attendance at those meetings is set out in the table on page 45.
Following each Committee meeting, I report any significant findings to the Board and copies of the minutes of the Committee meetings The Committees activities included: are circulated to all of the directors and to the external auditors.
overseeing a competitive tender process for the position of the EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER AND APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS Companys external auditors: In considering whether to recommend to the Board the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors, the Committee takes into following completion of the competitive tender process, making account the tenure of the auditors in addition to the results of its recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of review of the effectiveness of the external auditors and considers the external auditors and approving the remuneration and terms whether there should be a full tender process either as a result of engagement of the auditors including the audit strategy and of that review or as may be required by the relevant regulations.
planning process for the current financial year: There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees receiving and considering reports from management and the choice of external auditors.
external auditors in relation to the half yearly financial report and the annual financial statements: KPMG or its predecessor firms had been the Companys external auditors since 1986 and was responsible for the audit of the reviewing the half yearly financial report and the annual financial Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. statements and the formal announcements relating thereto: receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit In line with the new provision introduced in the 2012 edition of the in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function Code and the report of the UK Competition Commission which and reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme required listed companies to tender the external audit at least once for the year: every 10 years, during the early part of 2014 the Board accepted a recommendation from the Committee that the Company should carry reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial out such a tender during 2014 with a view to the successful firm controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Companys performing the external audit for the year ending 31 December 2014. risk management systems: In order to comply with good governance practice and given KPMGs reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, length of tenure as the Companys auditors and the then current raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial regulatory environment which was expected to impose an reporting or other matters and receiving periodic reports relating obligation on listed companies to rotate their auditors periodically to the matters raised through such arrangements: such obligation having subsequently been made a mandatory requirement, following a recommendation from the Committee reviewing, and making a recommendation to the Board to change, the Board decided that it intended to appoint a new audit firm as the Committees terms of reference: the Companys external auditors following the tender process.
reviewing the Committees effectiveness following an externally As a result KPMG was not invited to participate in the process.
facilitated performance evaluation: Following the agreement of a detailed timetable and step plan, a formal Invitation to Tender document was issued to those audit firms reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditors and determined by the Committee to have the appropriate international the internal audit function following completion of detailed expertise and resources to carry out effectively the external audit questionnaires by both the Board and senior management of the Company and its subsidiaries.
within the Company: BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The detailed responses to the Invitation to Tender were then Defined benefit pension scheme obligations assessed and reviewed against agreed criteria and each of the The Committee considered reports from management and the audit firms made presentations in May 2014.
The Committee external auditors in relation to the valuation of the defined benefit subsequently recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed as pension schemes and reviewed the key actuarial assumptions the external auditors in succession to KPMG.
Following approval by used in calculating the defined benefit pension liabilities, especially the Board, the appointment was duly notified to shareholders and to in relation to discount rates, inflation rates and mortality life the Financial Reporting Council and became effective on 19 May 2014. expectancy.
The Committee discussed the reasons for the increase PwCs fees for the audit for the year ending 31 December 2014 in the net pension deficit and was satisfied that the assumptions were considered and agreed by the Committee as part of the used were appropriate and were supported by independent actuarial tender process.
Details of the key assumptions used are set out in Note 20 to the financial statements.
Having been appointed during the year, PwC have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors of the Company and Supplier rebates the Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that a The Group has various rebate arrangements with a number of resolution proposing the re-appointment of PwC as external auditors suppliers.
Some of these arrangements are based on the volume be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of products purchased and others are based on the volume of products sold.
The recognition of supplier rebate income from these FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SIGNIFICANT arrangements may involve the requirement for some estimates to be ACCOUNTING MATTERS made about whether certain conditions related to such rebate income During the year and prior to the publication of the Groups results have been, or will be, met.
In reviewing the consolidated financial for 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2014 half yearly financial statements, the Committee considered a report from management report, the 2014 Annual Report including the financial statements, in relation to the key financial controls over supplier rebates, the the 2014 annual results news release and the reports from the accounting treatment for each type of rebate, the value of the external auditors, PwC, on the outcomes of their half year review different types of rebates in the income statement for the year and and audit relating to 2014. the value of supplier rebate income receivables at the year end.
The Committee discussed the findings of the external auditors in this As part of its work, the Committee considered the following area and discussed with management the supplier rebate accounting significant accounting issues, matters and judgements in relation process.
Having done so, the Committee concluded that it was to the Groups financial statements: satisfied with the Groups supplier rebate accounting process for the year and with the value of rebate income recognised.
Accounting for business combinations For business combinations, the Group has a long-standing process Provisions for the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and The Group holds a number of provisions relating to properties liabilities assumed including separate identification of intangible including liabilities for onerous lease commitments, repairs and assets using external valuation specialists where required.
The dilapidations and actual and anticipated legal, environmental and Committee reviewed this process and discussed with management other claims.
The Committee reviewed reports from management and the external auditors the methodology and assumptions used and the external auditors concerning the significant provisions held to value the assets and liabilities of the significant acquisitions for such matters including any provisions with notable movements completed in 2014.
The Committee concluded that it was satisfied and those provisions requiring a greater degree of judgement.
with managements valuations of these assets and liabilities, The Committee considered the background to such provisions and including the degree to which such valuations are supported by discussed with management the judgements applied in determining professional advice from external advisers.
the value of provisions required.
The Committee enquired of management and the external auditors as to the existence of other The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets matters potentially requiring a provision to be made.
The Committee Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and is tested concluded that it was satisfied with the value of provisions carried.
The Committee critically reviewed and discussed managements report on the impairment testing of the EXTERNAL AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE AND EFFECTIVENESS carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets of each CGU The Committee ensures that the external auditors remain and considered the external auditors testing thereof including the independent of the Company and receives written confirmation sensitivity of the outcome of impairment testing to the use of different from the external auditors as to whether they consider themselves discount rates.
After due challenge and debate, the Committee independent within the meaning of their own internal and the relevant concluded that it was satisfied with the assumptions and judgements regulatory and professional requirements.
Key members of the audit applied in relation to such testing and agreed that there was no team rotate off the Companys audit after a specific period of time.
impairment to goodwill or other intangible assets.
Details of the key assumptions and judgements used are set out in Note 9 to the In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the financial statements.
external auditors is not compromised, the Committee has also pre-approved the non-audit service categories that can be provided Taxation by the external auditors and agreed monetary amounts for each The Committee reviewed a report and received a presentation from service category that can be provided by them, subject to a maximum the Head of Tax highlighting the principal tax risks that the Group individual engagement value.
Certain categories of services are faces, the tax strategy and a detailed risk assessment relating to prohibited under the ethical standards of the Accounting Practices the tax risks identified including the judgements underpinning the Board.
A permitted service requires specific authorisation from the provisions for potential tax liabilities.
The Committee also reviewed Committee or myself as the Committee Chairman where it does not the results of the external auditors assessment of provisions for fall within the pre-approved categories or where its value exceeds income taxes and, having done so, was satisfied with the key the maximum pre-approved individual engagement value.
50 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Such non-audit service categories which are pre-approved INTERNAL AUDIT principally comprise tax services and further assurance services The Company has an internal audit department which comprises relating to pre-acquisition due diligence and other duties carried eight in-house auditors, including the Head of Internal Audit who out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses.
It is the reports jointly to me, in my capacity as Chairman of the Audit Companys policy to assess the services required on a case by case Committee, and the Finance Director.
The scope of work of the basis to ensure that the most appropriate adviser is retained.
As a internal audit function covers all systems and activities of the Group.
result the Committee believes that it is sometimes appropriate for Work is prioritised according to the Companys risk profile with this additional work to be carried out by the Companys auditors.
the annual audit plan being approved by the Committee each year.
However other firms are also used by the Company to provide Internal audit reports are regularly provided to the Committee which non-audit services if such other firms are thought to be best placed include details of the audit findings, and the relevant management to undertake the work involved.
Details of the fees paid to the actions required in order to address any issues arising therefrom, as external auditors in 2014 in respect of the audit and for non-audit well as updates on the progress made by management in addressing services are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
any outstanding recommendations from previously reported findings.
In addition, the internal audit function reports on any significant During 2014 the Committee carried out a review of the effectiveness issues relating to the processes for controlling the activities of of the external audit process carried out in relation to the audit of the the Group and the adequacy and effectiveness of such processes.
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
As part Together the work of the internal audit function provides the of this review, the Committee considered feedback on the audit Committee with a further means of monitoring the processes and gathered through a detailed survey which was completed by each actions to manage and mitigate those risks identified as posing the of the directors and members of the Companys senior management greatest threat to the Company.
team at both Group and business area levels.
The survey covered a total of 27 different aspects of the audit process grouped under four A review by the Committee of the effectiveness of the internal audit separate headings: the robustness of the audit process, the quality function was carried out during the year.
The Committee considered of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of people and the results of a detailed questionnaire completed by each of the service.
Each respondent was asked to award a rating on a scale directors and those members of the senior management team who of 1 to 5 for each aspect reviewed and to provide any additional interact with the internal audit department and discussed generally comments they wished to make in relation to the questions raised.
the work of the internal audit department, the adequacy of resources The Committee discussed the findings of the survey and their overall and the skills and capabilities of the internal audit team.
assessment of the work of the auditors.
The Committee will carry out a similar effectiveness review in 2015 in relation to the audit David Sleath of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 February 2015 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT As mentioned above, the Committee is responsible for reviewing on behalf of the Board the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Companys risk management system.
These controls and procedures are designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure of the Company to meet its business objectives and, as such, provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, the Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal financial controls framework through reports from the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
In particular the Committee considered the scope and results of work of the internal audit function, the findings of the external auditors in relation to the year end audit, the assessment of fraud risk carried out by management, the controls over the Companys financial consolidation and reporting system, the treasury controls, the tax risks and the processes for setting strategic plans and budgets and for monitoring the ongoing performance of the Company.
In relation to the risk management system, the Committee reviewed the process by which significant risks had been identified by management and the Board, the key controls and other processes designed to manage and mitigate such risks and the assurance provided by the internal audit function, the external auditors and other oversight from management and the Board.
