CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION overseeing the Groups risk management and internal controls Bunzls corporate governance framework is designed to facilitate processes and procedures.
effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can safeguard shareholders interests and sustain the success of the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman Company over the longer term.
In order to achieve this the Company and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
In agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council published the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, a copy of the primary job of the Chairman is to be responsible for the which is available at www.
This contains broad principles leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all together with more specific provisions which set out standards of aspects of its role while the Chief Executive is responsible for the good practice in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, leadership and the operational and performance management accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
This of the Company within the strategy agreed by the Board.
report describes how these principles have been applied by the the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Financial business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
Reporting Council published a revised edition of the Code in September 2014 which will apply to the Company for the year ending the Chairman: 31 December 2015.
The Company has sought to reflect the revisions takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability to the Code in its practices and will aim to comply fully with the of the Board and its Committees: revised Code in 2015.
However all references to the Code in this report relate to the 2012 edition of the Code.
consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a flexible basis to provide advice, counsel and support to the Chief COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Executive: and It is the Boards view that for the year ended 31 December 2014 the ensures corporate governance is conducted in accordance with Company has been fully compliant with all of the relevant provisions current best practice, as appropriate to the Group.
set out in the Code applicable to this reporting period.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required to review the Chief Executive: whether this statement reflects the Companys compliance with manages the executive directors and the Groups management those provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing and day-to-day activities: Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
prepares and presents to the Board the strategy for growth in shareholder value: BOARD COMPOSITION sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the As at 31 December 2014, the Board was made up of nine members agreed strategy: comprising a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other executive directors and five non-executive directors.
As at the date of this ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk report the Board was made up of 10 members following the management and control mechanisms: and appointment of Vanda Murray as a non-executive director with effect communicates with the Companys shareholders and analysts from 1 February 2015.
Peter Johnson, who has been a non-executive on a day-to-day basis as necessary subject to an overview of director since 2006, will retire from the Board following the Companys such matters by the Chairman.
Annual General Meeting on 15 April 2015.
Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page 42.
None of the Companys The Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board non-executive directors had any previous connection with the responsible for environmental, social and governance matters Company or its executive directors on appointment to the Board and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
and all of them are considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
The Chairman and each of the Peter Johnson is currently the senior independent director and non-executive directors have a breadth of strategic, management is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact and financial experience gained in each of their own fields in a range through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or of multinational businesses.
In accordance with the terms of the Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact Code each of the directors, with the exception of Peter Johnson who is inappropriate.
He is also available to the other directors should retires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, will be they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
Upon Peter Johnsons retirement in April 2015, David THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Sleath, who was appointed as a non-executive director in September To ensure directors maintain overall control over strategic, financial 2007 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee, will assume the role and operational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly of senior independent director.
throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
Key aspects of the The non-executive directors play a key role in corporate governance Boards role include: and accountability through both their attendance at Board meetings and their membership of the various Board Committees.
The setting the Groups strategic aims and ensuring that the Company non-executive directors bring a broad and diverse range of business has the necessary capabilities to deliver the Groups strategy: and financial expertise and experience to the Board which reviewing the Groups operating performance and approving the complements and supplements the experience of the executive directors.
This enables them to evaluate information provided and Groups financial results: constructively challenge managements viewpoints, assumptions reviewing and approving larger capital expenditure and acquisition and performance.
divestment proposals and material increases to borrowing and loan facilities: and BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational and Committees, all of which comply with the provisions of the Code and or transactional conflicts which are then considered by the Board play an important governance role through the detailed work they and, if considered appropriate, authorised accordingly.
A director is carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
Briefing not however permitted to participate in such considerations or to vote papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in in relation to their own conflicts.
advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, made available to the other directors.
Further information relating The Board has considered and authorised a number of potential to the Board Committees is set out below.
situational conflicts all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and have been entered on the Companys conflicts INFORMATION AND SUPPORT register.
No actual conflicts have been identified during the year.
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the The Board considers that these procedures operate effectively.
Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a rolling programme of items for discussion by the AUDIT COMMITTEE Board to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
The Board is directors and is chaired by David Sleath who, as Chief Executive and supplied with full and timely information, including detailed formerly Group Finance Director of SEGRO plc and as a fellow of financial information, to enable the directors to discharge their the ICAEW, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant responsibilities.
To enable informed decision making, briefing papers financial experience as required by the Code.
While the other are prepared and circulated to directors approximately one week directors are not members of the Committee, they normally attend before the scheduled Board meeting.
All directors have access to meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is tasked with Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors.
The ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and the Board Secretary to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
is fully briefed on relevant legislative, regulatory and corporate Further details about the Audit Committee and the work undertaken governance developments.
Directors may also take independent by it during the year and prior to the publication of the Groups results professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge this for 2014 are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 48 to 51. to be necessary in the furtherance of their duties to discharge their Members attendance at the Committee meetings held during the responsibilities as directors.
year is set out in the table on page 45.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed and revised by the Board during The Board meets formally at least seven times a year and the Board the year following a recommendation made by the Committee, calendar is planned to ensure that the directors discuss a wide range are available on the Companys website, www.
of topics throughout the year.
Normally at least two Board meetings a year are held at or near Group locations in the UK and overseas REMUNERATION COMMITTEE where the directors have the opportunity to meet and interact with The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent senior executives from different businesses within the Groups non-executive directors and is currently chaired by the senior portfolio as well as observe the operations in situ.
During 2014 independent director, Peter Johnson.
Upon Peter Johnsons a number of the Groups senior executives made presentations to retirement in April 2015, Vanda Murray, who was appointed as a the Board about a variety of different and diverse topics including non-executive director in February 2015, will assume the role of reviews of potential acquisition opportunities, the post-acquisition Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
While neither the Chairman of performance of businesses acquired in prior years, the Groups the Company nor the Chief Executive are members of the Committee, financing facilities and treasury policies and health and safety they normally attend meetings by invitation except when the performance metrics.
Committee is considering matters concerning themselves.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human In addition to regular Board meetings, the directors meet annually Resources.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the to review and discuss the Groups overall strategy.
As part of this Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out process, presentations are made by the Chief Executive and the in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 72.
Members heads of each of the business areas together with the Director of attendance at the Committee meetings held during the year is Corporate Development.
set out in the table on page 45.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed during the year, are available All new directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board, on the Companys website.
including meetings with senior management and visits to some of the Groups locations.
They also receive a detailed information NOMINATION COMMITTEE pack which includes details of directors duties and responsibilities, Composition procedures for dealing in Bunzls shares and a number of other The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, governance related issues.
Directors are continually updated on who chairs the Committee unless the Committee is dealing with the the Groups businesses and their markets and the changes to the matter of succession of the Chairman of the Company, the Chief competitive and regulatory environments in which they operate.
Executive and all of the non-executive directors.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the majority of the members are Training and development needs of the Board are kept under review independent non-executive directors.
The Secretary to the and directors attend external courses where it is considered Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
appropriate for them to do so.
Role CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Committees principal role is to consider, and make The directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or recommendations to the Board concerning, the composition of the could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly Board and its Committees including proposed appointees to the may conflict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with the Board, whether to fill any vacancies that may arise or to change Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association allow the number of Board members.
It is the Committees role to ensure the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise that the Board and its Committees maintain the appropriate balance and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure their continued effectiveness.
44 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The Committees responsibilities include: in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
Consequently the Committee is satisfied that, despite his reviewing the structure, size and composition including the length of tenure, he remains independent.
Additionally, the Board skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and accepted the Committees recommendation that David Sleath should making recommendations to the Board with regard to any be appointed as the Companys senior independent director following proposed changes: Peter Johnsons retirement.
nominating, for the approval of the Board, appropriate individuals The Chief Executive presented his annual management succession to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise having considered plan to the Committee.
The Company recognises that having the right candidates with relevant experience from a wide range of directors and senior management is crucial for the Groups success backgrounds: and and it is a key task of the Committee to ensure that the Company has succession planning, taking into account the challenges and a robust and continuous succession planning process over both the opportunities facing the Company and the background, skills and medium to long term to ensure that there is the right mix and skills expertise that will be required on the Board in the future, and available as the Company evolves.
reviewing annually management succession planning processes in relation to the Companys senior executives.
As part of the review of the composition of the Board and the succession planning process, both the Board and the Committee The Committee meets as necessary throughout the year to discharge recognise the importance of gender diversity throughout the Group.
An external search consultancy which does not As at the date of this report, two of the 10 Board members moving to have any other connection with the Company is retained by the two of the nine Board members following Peter Johnsons retirement Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as in April 2015 and one of the five Executive Committee members are prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, female.
The Committee aims to have a Board with a broad range executive directors.
This process was adopted in relation to the of skills, backgrounds, experience and diversity and, while the appointment of Vanda Murray as a non-executive director with effect Committee will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the from 1 February 2015, further details of which are set out below.
best people are appointed for the relevant roles, the Committee recognises the benefits of greater diversity and will continue to Activities take account of this when considering any particular appointment.
The Committee met on four occasions during 2014.
Members However, the primary responsibility of the Committee in selecting attendance at those meetings is set out in the table opposite.
and recommending candidates to the Board when making new appointments is to ensure the strength of the Boards composition One of the Committees main responsibilities during the year was the and the overriding aim is to always select and recommend the best process of identifying and selecting a new non-executive director.
Further information about the Companys Having taken account of the existing skills, knowledge, experience workforce diversity is set out on page 39. and diversity of the Board, the Committee prepared and agreed a detailed specification for the role and appointed an external search The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed by consultancy, Lygon Group, to assist the Committee in the recruitment the Board during the year, are set out on the Companys website.
Lygon Group does not provide any other services to, or have any connection with, the Company.
In particular the Committee were BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE keen to find a successful senior business executive with extensive The following table shows the attendance in 2014 of directors at international management experience.
As a potential non-executive Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which director, it was important that the chosen candidate was able to play they were members: a supportive role to the executive management team while at the Audit Remuneration Nomination same time provide strategic input into the Companys direction Board Committee Committee Committee and development.
It was also a requirement that the prospective Number of meetings 9 5 3 4 director could provide wise counsel and independence of mind Philip Rogerson 9 4 and to challenge management constructively by offering impartial, Michael Roney 9 4 independent and objective advice.
All members of the Committee Patrick Larmon 9 had the opportunity to meet the preferred candidate before a final recommendation was made to the Board.
Following a thorough Peter Johnson 9 5 3 4 process Vanda Murray was recommended to the Board to be Brian May 9 appointed as an independent non-executive director.
This David Sleath 9 5 3 4 recommendation was unanimously approved by the Board with Eugenia Ulasewicz 9 5 3 4 Vanda Murray being appointed with effect from 1 February 2015.
Jean-Charles Pauze 9 5 3 4 The Board also accepted the Committees recommendation that Meinie Oldersma 9 5 3 4 Vanda Murray be appointed to each of the three Board Committees and that she should assume the role of Chair of the Remuneration In addition to the directors named above, Vanda Murray was Committee upon Peter Johnsons retirement in April 2015. appointed as a non-executive director and a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees with effect from The Committee also reviewed and took account of the balance of 1 February 2015. skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, the time commitment expected of the non-executive directors and the PERFORMANCE EVALUATION conclusions of the formal evaluation process which was carried The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for out when considering and recommending the nomination of the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by directors for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
This includes individual discussions between the In particular the Committee reviewed the performance of Chairman and each director when their individual training and David Sleath, who was appointed to the Board in September 2007. development needs are reviewed.
Led by the senior independent The Committee believes that he continues to be effective and to director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman demonstrate strong independence in character and judgement BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance From the information and assurance provided by the ongoing work of including a review of his other commitments to ensure that he is the internal audit department, the reviews conducted by the external able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his auditors in relation to both the half year and full year results, the responsibilities effectively.
The Chairman also periodically holds Boards understanding of the Groups business and the information meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive provided by the senior executive management team, the Board directors present.
All of these processes were carried out considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced satisfactorily during the year.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model In accordance with the requirements of the Code an external and strategy.
performance evaluation was carried out in 2012 and the results were subsequently presented to the Board.
The facilitator of the external RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL evaluation, Lintstock, does not provide any other services to, or have The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for any other connection with, the Company.
Although the Code only identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the requires that the evaluation of the Board and its Committees should Groups system of internal control relating to those risks.
However, be externally facilitated at least every three years, the Board has such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk decided to appoint Lintstock to carry out a performance evaluation of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide each year and accordingly external evaluations were completed in reasonable and not absolute assurance against material both 2013 and 2014.
By doing so, the Board is able to ensure that misstatement or loss.
In accordance with Principle C. 2 of the there is consistency and continuity in the evaluation process and Code and the related guidance, the Company has established the the presentation of the results from one year to the next.
Following procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for the evaluation which was carried out in 2014, the Board identified identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating significant risks to a number of key priorities in order to improve the Boards the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the significant performance, including: risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The directors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the allowing more time for discussion on the key strategic issues year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date of approval of these facing the Group both as part of the Boards annual strategy financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
review and at other times of the year as appropriate: Further information relating to how the directors maintain overall continuing the focus of the Nomination Committee on the control over all significant strategic, financial, operational and management succession plans for the Group, including in compliance issues is set out in the Role of the Board section on particular maintaining the Boards exposure to the Groups page 43. senior management below Board level: increasing the focus on both the opportunities and threats In addition, the Board has delegated to an Executive Committee, presented by future developments in technology and digital consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other marketing activities and how these might best be developed functional managers, the responsibility for identifying, evaluating and in order to maintain the continuing success of the Group: and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are managed and to establish a system of internal control appropriate arranging for more external speakers to present to the Board to the business environments in which the Group operates.
The from time to time on specific topics of interest.
principal features of this system include: As a result of the overall performance evaluation process carried a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control out in 2014, the Board concluded that both it and its Committees system through a tiered management structure with clearly are operating effectively.
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment The responsibilities of the directors in respect of the preparation and acquisitions: of the Group and parent company financial statements are set out strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared on page 120 and the auditors report on pages 121 to 126 includes annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: a statement by the external auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page 33, the directors are of the formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics opinion that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern and whistle blowing procedure based on honesty, integrity, fair basis in preparing the financial statements.
dealing and compliance with the local laws and regulations of the countries in which the Group operates: The process of preparing the Annual Report has included a well established consolidation and reporting system for the the following: statutory accounts and monthly management accounts: comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production Group in order to ensure the accuracy, consistency and overall of timely and accurate management information relating to the balance of the Annual Report: and operation of the Groups businesses: and verification procedures, both internally and by the external detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies auditors, to deal with the factual content of the Annual Report.
and procedures for the Groups treasury operations supplemented by internal control procedures at a business area level.
46 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, financial statements.
The audit includes the review and evaluation of manage and mitigate business risk are listed below: the system of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit central management holds regular meetings with business area opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS business areas and the policies and procedures by which these The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with risks are managed: the half year results announced normally at the end of August and the annual results announced normally at the end of February.
the Executive Committee meets twice per month and also reviews In addition the Company has historically published two interim the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on management statements a year as required by the Disclosure internal control and risk management issues: and Transparency Rules the DTRs.
Although with effect from the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee 7 November 2014 the DTRs no longer require interim management discussions on internal control and risk management issues which statements to be published by listed companies, it is the Boards ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: current intention to continue to issue interim management statements on a voluntary basis in order to keep the Companys each business area, the Executive Committee and the Board carry shareholders and the financial markets periodically updated on out an annual fraud risk assessment: the Companys trading performance outside of the regulatory actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts announcements made in relation to the half year and annual results.
and the previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board all treasury activities, including in relation to the management of the views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication foreign exchange exposures and Group borrowings, are reported include presentations of the half year and annual results.
The and reviewed monthly: Chairman and the senior independent director and the other nonthe Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: request.
The Board also periodically reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports and surveys of shareholder opinions conducted the internal audit department periodically reviews individual by the Companys own brokers.
businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve controls and follows up to ensure that management implements Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at the recommendations made.
The internal audit departments work least 20 working days before the meeting.
All shareholders are is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited reported to Group and business area management as well as to ask questions at the meeting and are given the opportunity to to the Audit Committee and the external auditors: meet all of the directors informally.
Shareholders unable to attend an annual self-assessment of the status of internal controls are encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or measured against a prescribed list of minimum standards is electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders performed by every business and action plans are agreed where are given the option to withhold their vote on the proxy form.
As in remedial action is required: previous years, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting each of the resolutions put to the meeting will be taken on a poll rather the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent than on a show of hands as directors believe that a poll is more non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly representative of shareholders voting intentions because throughout the year.
Further details of the work of the Committee, shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares which includes a review of the effectiveness of the Companys held and all votes tendered are taken into account.
The results of the internal financial controls and the assurance procedures relating poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Companys to the Companys risk management system, are set out in the website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee report on pages 48 to 51: regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to On behalf of the Board assess the risks throughout the Group: Paul Hussey a management committee, which oversees issues relating Secretary principally to environment, health & safety, insurance and business 23 February 2015 continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and monitors their implementation: risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against objectives established by each business area are periodically carried out: and developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management in operation during 2014.
