Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Key resources and relationships Customers There is no doubt that the Governments As part of our preparations for Solvency II, Just Retirement has always recognised and pension reforms took Just Retirement and our blended-learning approach ensures all responded to the needs of its customers.
the rest of the industry by surprise.
However, of our employees are aware of key legislative Ongoing programmes of customer surveys, we have strongly campaigned to ensure changes, while delivering detailed technical including organised feedback, focus groups the Governments guidance guarantee is training in the most relevant and effective way.
and the implementation of a fully integrated unequivocally independent of commercial complaints process, provide the Group with bias and, through the eyes of the user, All new Just Retirement employees attend vital insights into our performance and service seen to be.
If the national Guaranteed a comprehensive one-day induction shortly proposition.
Our 2013 14 survey showed that Guidance service is sufficiently broad after joining.
This ensures that all our 91.7% of customers rated the Just Retirement and deep in scope it has the potential to employees have a basic understanding of service as either good or very good, and we encourage more people to shop around and our business and the regulatory landscape will continue to request feedback in order purchase retirement products from an open, inwhich we operate.
to structure a range of initiatives to not only transparent and competitive market.
There maintain this position, but also improve the will be many customers who may not access Diversity customer experience.
Guaranteed Guidance and we are asking The Group recognises the importance the Financial Conduct Authority and the ofdiversity amongst its employees and is Treating customers fairly is aligned to the Pensions Regulator to ensure there are robust committed to ensuring that employees are Groups cultural heritage and philosophy conduct rules in place to protect people from selected and promoted on the basis of merit about how its business should be conducted inadvertently making poor choices.
and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, with customer-led decision making at the religion, sexual orientation or disability.
The Group provides We will continue to support and challenge All Just Retirement Group employees are leading services by understanding its the bodies accountable for ensuring required to demonstrate annually that they customers, keeping its promises and seeking competition is effective and consumer understand UK equality legislation and how to exceed customer expectations.
protection is proportionately applied to make itapplies to the workplace.
sure people approaching and in-retirement Reinsurers have access to a competitive market and Our senior management team is comprised of Since its inception in 2004, Just Retirement organisations that take advantage of 82% men and 18% women, whilst the Board has been working with Hannover Re, widely customer inertia are scrutinised.
is comprised of 89% men and 11% women.
regarded as the leading global reinsurer in the Overall, the male female split is 55% 45%.
In addition to this long-standing Suppliers relationship, we have developed partnerships The Group outsources certain operational and Benefits with other leading reinsurance firms, with administrative functions where appropriate.
Just Retirement offers a competitive range the diversification of the Groups reinsurance This includes areas such as investment of benefits to employees, including life arrangements supporting competitive pricing.
management, customer medical assessments assurance and income protection, from and the administration of annuity payments in their commencement with the Company.
Government relation to certain defined benefit fide-risking Employees also have the opportunity to join A key approach of Just Retirement is to solutions.
The relationships with the suppliers the private medical insurance scheme and positively engage with Government and of these services are managed through sign up to receive other benefits, including regulators to encourage effective competition dedicated teams.
dental insurance, retail vouchers, gym and better customer outcomes.
membership, holiday buy sell and retirement Our people planning.
Salary sacrifice schemes providing Just Retirement engages with ministers, Development National Insurance and tax savings are government officials, regulators and other Developing our people is central to our overall available for childcare vouchers and cycle-topolicy makers directly and through trade business strategy and this commitment to work.
To support employees in planning for bodies.
As a leader in the markets we serve, our employees is set out in our learning their future, Just Retirement offers a salary Just Retirement is well placed to share our and development policy.
Our development sacrifice Group Personal Pension scheme.
initiatives align with business requirements and typically focus on strengthening technical Our efforts during the last year have been knowledge, role-specific skills, and behaviour to support ministers and their officials to in line with our competency framework.
understand how the market for care funding could develop and how a public and private Following the successful completion of our partnership could operate.
We have shared IPO, all employees received training on market our considerable knowledge of peoples abuse legislation training and information attitudes towards using the equity in their security best practice.
Key learning initiatives homes to stimulate new policy considerations during 2013 14 financial year focused on to help alleviate poverty for hundreds of product developments, coaching skills and thousands of pensioners.
Our entry into the care market saw our sales and administration teams receive specialist training to help them understand more about the needs of this particularly vulnerable customer group.
