Corporate governance report2014 Chairmans introduction The Group Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance in Just Retirement and demonstrates this commitment by the way in which it conducts business and carries out its responsibilities.
Board decisions aim to link the Groups strategy, its governance and risk appetite to the pursuit of sustainable successful growth over the longer term for the benefit of all stakeholders.
From admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 November 2013, the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code except with respect to the composition of the Board prior to 30 April 2014.
On that date the Board appointed Michael Deakin as the fourth independent Non-executive Director and so complied with the Code provision for a balanced Board.
Our approach to applying the principles of the Code and how we comply with its provisions are described in the Governance Report that follows.
Two notable governance issues addressed in the financial year were: The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement with Avallux, its principal shareholder, to ensure that from Admission the Company would be able, at all times, to carry on its business independently of Avallux and that all transactions and relationships between the Company and Avallux would be at arms length and on a normal commercial basis: and The Companys share price fell sharply following the Governments Budget announcement on 19 March 2014 regarding proposed reforms to the retirement income market.
A standing incident management process was immediately invoked to address the need to quickly inform investors of the Companys response and later that day, following a review of available information and input from advisers, the Market Disclosure Committee released an announcement to the London Stock Exchange.
Our view is that good governance will play an increasingly key role in the Companys response to the challenges and opportunities of a changing market, set against the background of a broadening regulatory environment for financial services.
The Group Board will continue to lead the development of a governance framework that promotes transparency, accountability and challenge as the fundamental underlying principles for the Boards entrepreneurial and prudent approach to developing Just Retirements business.
Tom Cross Brown Chairman 17 September 2014 44 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Group governance framework The following chart illustrates the governance structure established by the Group Board: Just Retirement Group plc Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk and Committee Committee Committee Compliance Committee Just Retirement Group Other Limited Board Executive Committee subsidiary Boards Investment Management Committee Committees The Group Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, and Risk and Compliance Committees to assist it with the direction and control of the Group.
These Committees, together with the Investment Committee of the Just Retirement Limited Board and the Group Executive Committee, are the principal operating Committees of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer operates a Group Executive Committee to support him in the performance of his duties, including the development and implementation of strategy, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the assessment of control and risk, the supervision and prioritisation of resources, the monitoring of competitive forces and the day-to-day operational management of the Group.
The Group Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors Rodney Cook, Simon Thomas, Shayne Deighton and the following from the Groups senior management: Hugh McKee Managing Director designate of Just Retirements UK Life business : Chris Berryman Group Chief Operating Officer : David Cooper Group Distribution & Marketing Director : Paul Turner Group Director of Business Development : Anne Ridge Group HR Director : and Alex Duncan Chief Risk Officer.
Steve Kyle Group Regulatory & Audit Director provides independent input.
The Group Executive Committee meets weekly to discuss and approve operational matters and is supported by management sub-committees focusing on the following areas: risk, pricing, assets and liabilities, insurance, products and propositions, change, and regulatory oversight.
In addition to its principal operating Committees, the Board has established a Market Disclosure Committee and an Allotment Committee, which meet whenever necessary.
The Market Disclosure Committee oversees the disclosure of information by the Company to meet its obligations under the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and to ensure that decisions in relation to those obligations can be made quickly.
The Committees role is to determine whether information is insiders information, when such information needs to be disclosed and whether any announcements are required.
Other responsibilities include reviewing and approving announcements concerning developments in Just Retirements business and monitoring compliance with the Groups DTR disclosure controls and procedures.
Its members comprise Tom Cross Brown Chair, Keith Nicholson, Rodney Cook and Simon Thomas.
The Allotment Committee has responsibility for overseeing the allotment and listing of new ordinary shares in the Company in accordance with the Companys executive incentive plans and employee share plans.
Its members comprise any two Directors, one of whom must be a Non-executive Director.
Every Board Committee has written terms of reference setting out its duties, reporting responsibilities and authorities which are reviewed annually.
Committee terms of reference are subject to periodic updating to reflect any changes in legislation, regulation or best practice.
Further details on Committees are set out on pages 50 to 54.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available onthe Groups website at www.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 Corporate governance report2014 continued Group governance framework continued The five main Board Committees are comprised of Non-executive Directors of the Company who were appointed by the Board following review and recommendation by the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on the proceedings of the previous Committee meeting at the next scheduled Board meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary of every Committee.
The following table shows the members and invited attendees of the Board Committees: Risk and Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance Investment Tom Cross Brown By invitation Member Chair Member Member Rodney Cook By invitation By invitation By invitation By invitation By invitation Simon Thomas By invitation By invitation By invitation Shayne Deighton By invitation By invitation By invitation Les Owen Chair Member Member By invitation James Fraser By invitation Member By invitation By invitation Keith Nicholson Member Member Member Chair Member Kate Avery Member Chair Member By invitation Michael Deakin Member Member Chair Audit Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, internal and external audits, and controls, including reviewing the Groups annual financial statements, reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit activities, internal controls and risk management systems in place within the Group.
The Audit Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Les Owen.
Its other members are Keith Nicholson, Kate Avery and Michael Deakin.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee recommends what policy the Group should adopt on executive remuneration, determines the levels of remuneration for each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, and recommends and monitors the remuneration of members of senior management.
The Remuneration Committee will also generate an annual remuneration report to be approved by the members of the Group at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet not less than twice a year and is chaired by Kate Avery.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown, Keith Nicholson and Les Owen.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee assists the Board in determining the composition and make-up of the Board.
It is also responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, as the need may arise.
The Nominations Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Nominations Committee will normally meet not less than twice a year and is chaired by Tom Cross Brown.
Its other members are James Fraser and Keith Nicholson.
Risk and Compliance Committee The Risk and Compliance Committee is principally responsible for assisting the Board and other members of the Group in the discharge of their risk and regulatory oversight responsibilities.
The Risk and Compliance Committee reviews and challenges the overall effectiveness of the Groups regulatory systems and controls, risk management and future developments.
The Risk and Compliance Committee also provides advice on regulatory and risk strategies including oversight of current risk exposures.
The Risk and Compliance Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Keith Nicholson.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown, Les Owen, Kate Avery and Michael Deakin.
Investment Committee The Investment Committee of the Board of Just Retirement Limited assists that Board in achieving its investment objectives.
The Investment Committee is responsible for reviewing and overseeing the implementation of Just Retirement Limiteds investment policy, including the performance of the investment portfolio, recommending the appointment and assessing the performance of the external investment managers, and the effectiveness of reporting procedures.
The Investment Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Michael Deakin.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown and Keith Nicholson.
The remaining Directors of the Just Retirement Group plc Board attend by invitation.
46 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Board responsibilities and operation The Group Board is responsible for the proper management of Just Retirements Group strategy and direction, including its risk appetite.
It also oversees the activities and direction of Just Retirement Limited and the Groups other operating subsidiaries.
There are nine Board members: theChairman independent on appointment, three Executive and five Non-executive Directors four of whom are considered independent.
KeithNicholson is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors Keith Nicholson, Les Owen, Kate Avery and Michael Deakin are each independent of management in character, judgement and opinion.
The Board acknowledges that James Fraser, as the nominated principal shareholder Director in the Companys relationship agreement with Avallux the Companys principal shareholder, must therefore be considered non-independent within the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board benefits from the wide range of sector experience of its Non-executive Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 38 and 39.
The Board believes that documented roles and responsibilities for Directors, with a clear division of key responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO, are essential elements in the Groups governance framework and facilitate the effective operation oftheBoard.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership and governance of the Board but takes no part in the day-to-day running of the business.
His key responsibilities include: Leading the Board effectively to ensure it is primarily focused on strategy, performance, value creation and accountability: Ensuring the Board determines the significant risks the Group is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy: Leading the succession planning process and chairing the Nominations Committee: Encouraging all Directors to contribute fully to Board discussions and ensuring that sufficient challenge applies to major proposals: Fostering relationships within the Board and providing a sounding board for the CEO on important business issues: Identifying development needs for the Board and Directors: Leading the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and Ensuring effective communication with major shareholders.
The CEO is responsible for leadership of the Groups business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
His key responsibilities include: Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and significant commercial initiatives: Leading the executive team in the day-to-day running of the Group: Ensuring the Groups operations are in accordance with the business plan approved by the Board, the Boards overall risk appetite, the policies established by the Board, and applicable laws and regulations: Representation of the Groups interests in the UK and abroad: Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on important business and strategy issues: Recommending budgets and forecasts for Board approval: Providing recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior management: and Leading the communication programme with shareholders and ensuring the appropriate and timely disclosure of information to the stock market.
In addition to their roles as Non-executive Directors to constructively challenge and help develop the Groups strategy, Les Owen, Kate Avery and Keith Nicholson respectively chair the Boards Audit, Remuneration, and Risk and Compliance Committees, while Michael Deakin chairs the Investment Committee of Just Retirement Limited.
As the Senior Independent Director, Keith Nicholson provides a sounding board for theChairman, deputises for the Chairman in his absence and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the Executive Directors under documented policies and procedures.
In advance of scheduled Board meetings, each Director receives documentation providing updates on the Groups strategy, finances, operations and development, andwhich have reference to a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, which includes: The Groups business strategy and risk appetite: Business strategy plans and objectives, budgets and forecasts: Extension of the Groups activities into new business or geographic areas: Changes in capital structure and any form of fund raising: Major changes to the Groups corporate structure, including reorganisations, acquisitions, disposals and major capital projects: The Groups systems of internal control and risk management: Changes to the membership of the Board: Interim and annual financial statements: and Dividend policy.
The schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is reviewed annually.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47 Corporate governance report2014 continued Board responsibilities and operation continued The Board has 11 scheduled meetings a year and meetings are convened at other times as and when necessary: nine Board meetings were held inthe period since the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange on 15 November 2013.
The following table shows Directors attendance at Board meetings and, where they are members, of Committee meetings since the Companys listing up to 30 June 2014.
During this period sixof the Board meetings were scheduled and three were additional meetings called at short notice.
Risk and Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance 1 Tom Cross Brown 9 9 4 5 2 2 2 2 1 Rodney Cook 8 9 Simon Thomas 9 9 Shayne Deighton 9 9 1 Les Owen 7 9 4 4 3 5 2 2 1 James Fraser 8 9 1 2 Keith Nicholson 9 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 2 2 1 Kate Avery 8 9 2 4 4 5 2 2 2 Michael Deakin 3 3 2 2 1 1 Notes: 1 The Director was unable to attend the Board or Committee meeting s due to prior commitments or meetings being called at short notice.
2 Michael Deakin was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2014.
The Nominations Committee reviews the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company provided by the Directors, with the aim of ensuring the Board has the capabilities necessary to deliver its responsibilities for business strategy and governance.
The Board supports the principle of improving gender balance in the boardroom.
Further information about the Boards policy on diversity is given on page 13.
Non-executive Directors appointments are subject to review every three years.
Their letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment, recognising the need for availability in exceptional circumstances, and the Board is informed of any subsequent changes in their other significant commitments.
None of the Executive Directors hold a Non-executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
All Directors appointments are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
A Group policy and process is in place to address possible conflicts of interest of Directors.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts with the interests of the Company that arise must be disclosed at the next Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, authorisation by relevant Board members in accordance with the Companys articles.
No conflicts were disclosed in the period.
The Board has established a broad risk governance and management framework, which is designed to provide control and oversight over the management of all financial and non-financial risks.
The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model.
The first line of defence is line management who devise and operate the controls over the business.
The second line functions are Risk Management and Compliance, which oversees the first line, ensure that the system of controls are sufficient and are operated appropriately, and also measure and report on risk to the Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
The third line comprises Internal Audit and the external auditor who provides independent assurance to the Board and its Committees that the first and second lines are operating appropriately.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness and monitoring of the Groups systems of internal control, covering all material financial, operational and compliance controls, and for undertaking an annual review of the control systems in place, while the implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility of management.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement.
The Groups internal control systems comprise the following key features: Establishment of clear and detailed terms of reference for the Board and each of its Committees: A clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of authority from the Board to senior management: A Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and control standards for the Groups operations: and Defined procedures for the approval of major transactions and capital allocation.
It is the view of the Board that the Groups internal controls are appropriate to the Groups needs at this time.
Internal controls are kept under review by the Board and its Committees and the Board is committed to maintaining standards of internal controls that are in line with industry practice, the Groups needs and regulatory regimes, in particular the requirements of the PRA and FCA.
48 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials An annual performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and of individual Directors was conducted after the year end through the use of a questionnaire which was completed by all Directors and followed by meetings of individual Directors with the Chairman.
The questionnaire responses were collated and analysed by the Group Company Secretary.
The results were reviewed by the Chairman and communicated by him to the Board, including actions that were required to help improve effectiveness.
Overall, the Board noted that there was a high degree of consensus on key governance themes.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman met as a group to evaluate the performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of Executive Directors : the results of that process were communicated to the Board by the Senior Independent Director.
All new Directors receive formal induction on joining the Board and a tailored training plan.
Their induction includes discussions with the Chairman and Executive Directors as well as one-to-one briefings and presentations from senior management on matters relating to the Groups business, its procedures and regulatory developments.
As part of the annual Board effectiveness review, the Chairman discusses with each of the Directors their training and development needs.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they consider it appropriate in relation to their duties.
AllDirectors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional shareholders through a scheduled programme of meetings which are generally undertaken by the CEO and Group Finance Director.
An investor relations function provides the Board with regular analyses of investor activity and share price performance.
Analysts and brokers reports are made available to all Directors and they also receive feedback from investor meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by shareholders if they have concerns which are inappropriate toraise with the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors.
Further information for shareholders is included on pages 131 and 132.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 49 Corporate governance report2014 continued Statement from the Chairman of the Nominations Committee Role of the Committee The role of the Nominations Committee is to keep under review the leadership needs of the Company, and regularly review the size and composition of the Board, where appropriate making recommendations for the orderly succession of Executive and Non-executive Director appointments, and the progressive refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
In assisting and advising the Board, the Committee seeks to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity on the Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group.
The Nominations Committee comprises three Non-executive Directors, two of whom are deemed independent by the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and the Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director are normally invited to attend meetings.
The Committees duties are explained in more detail in its terms of reference which is available on the Groups website at www.
Appointments policy and process Appointments to the Board of the Company are made on merit, having regard to the requirements of the role that will best support the business and promote the success of the Company.
The Committee begins the recruitment process by evaluating the balance of experience and abilities on the Board and then agreeing a specification for the role and a personal skills set which together form the basis for discussion with relevant search firms.
The specification is then refined through discussion with the selected search firm, with due regard given for the benefits of diversity on the Board, so that a long list of potential interviewees includes female candidates.
A short-list is then selected and considered.
Short-listed candidates are interviewed by the Chairman, other Committee members and the Chief Executive.
The Committee then decides whether to recommend an appointment to the Board for approval.
The Nominations Committee has met formally on three occasions since the Companys listing in November 2013, supported by numerous discussions which took place as a working party of the Committee to progress recruitment processes aimed at securing lists of strong potential candidates for Non-executive Directorships and roles in senior management.
Committee activities have included: Considering the composition of the Board and its Committees ahead of the Companys IPO on 15 November 2013, particularly the independence of Non-executive Directors and the balance of abilities and experience required of both Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors: Recommending to the Board the pre-IPO appointment of two Non-executive Directors, Keith Nicholson as the Senior Independent Director and also Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee and Kate Avery also as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The appointment in April 2014 of Michael Deakin as the fourth independent Non-executive Director ensured a balanced Board.
Korn Ferry and Whitehead Mann have been engaged to assist with Board recruitments, while CT Partners and Elliott Bauer have assisted with senior management appointments, and all such consultancies have provided no other services to the Company during the year: Commencing the search for a successor to Les Owen who has decided to step down from his Non-executive Director role, and as Chairman of the Audit Committee, from the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
He has served highly effectively in both capacities with Just Retirement for over four years.
The Committee intends to appoint an additional independent Non-executive Director, subject to regulatory requirements being met by that individual, to ensure the continuation of a balanced Board: Keeping under review the independence of the Non-executive Directors, considering the judgement, thinking and constructive challenge that they each demonstrate in Board and Committee discussions.
Reference was also made to the specific factors identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code as potentially relevant in determining independence, with the Committee having concluded that James Fraser must be considered non-independent because of his nominated Directorship by the Companys major shareholder: and Recommending to the Board that, apart from Les Owen who intends to retire, each of the Directors be proposed for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25 November 2014.
The Committee made this recommendation, having considered the balance of abilities and experience required of both Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors, and on the basis that all Non-executive Directors, whether independent or not, demonstrate the personal qualities necessary to contribute to the leadership of the Company.
Tom Cross Brown Committee Chairman 50 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Statement from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Overview The Audit Committee plays an essential role in the Companys governance framework, having been delegated by the Board the oversight of the Groups financial reporting, external audits, and internal controls and risk management systems.
The Committee is also, at the Boards request, responsible for advising the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Committees main responsibilities, which are explained in more detail in its terms of reference, are to review and advise the Board on: Half yearly and annual financial statements, the accounting policies applied and any significant judgements: The Annual Report and Accounts to assess that it is fair, balanced and understandable: The scope of the external audit and the key findings, including external auditor effectiveness and independence: Recommendations for the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor: The effectiveness of the Group internal control environment: Group Internal Audit activities and findings: and The appointment and performance assessment of the Head of Internal Audit.
A broad range of financial, actuarial and commercial experience and knowledge is brought to bear by members of the Committee to its work.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
Board members, the Group Regulatory and Audit Director, the Head of Internal Audit, the Director of Finance, the Chief Risk Officer, and the Actuarial Function Holder are invited to attend meetings and periodically, I have individual discussions with the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the KPMG Audit Plc KPMG Audit Director.
Close liaison between the Audit Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee is achieved through the cross-membership and co-operation of their respective Chairmen, enabling the Audit Committee to focus on the control environment, and on reviewing the results of internal and external audits to inform the work of the Risk and Compliance Committee.
I report regularly to the Board on the activities the Audit Committee hasundertaken.
In assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal controls, the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups control systems based on reports from the Group Regulatory and Audit Director and the Group Finance Director.
The Committee concluded that the Groups internal controls are appropriate to the Groups needs at this time.
Committee activities An annual schedule of Committee business, based on the Committees terms of reference, and regular individual discussions I have with the Group Regulatory and Audit Director and the Group Finance Director support the process of agenda setting for each meeting.
Since the Companys listing in November 2013 up to the date of this report, the Committee has met on seven occasions.
Five meetings were mainly in relation to the Groups financial reporting cycle, in particular the half year and full year results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The remainder of my report describes the main areas of assurance considered by the Committee during that period and how any matters were addressed.
2014 financial reporting The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014, taken as a whole, is a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and has advised the Board accordingly.
In reaching this conclusion, the Committee has considered the information and assurance provided by Group Internal Audit, information provided by management, and the external audit conducted by KPMG.
The primary audit risks identified in KPMGs audit plan for the financial year addressed the judgemental appropriateness of the assumptions andmethodologies adopted in respect of insurance liabilities, annuitant longevity, mortgage valuation and reinsurance assets.
The main areas of judgement considered by the Committee in respect of the 2014 consolidated financial statements, and how these were addressed, included the following: The valuation rate of interest used to calculate the Groups insurance liabilities is calculated from yields on supporting assets.
An explicit deduction is made from the yields on corporate bonds based on prudent expectations of default experience for each asset class.
The Committee addresses both the methodology of the deduction and its quantum by receiving a recommendation from the Group Finance Director, whose recommendations are also reviewed by the actuary advising the auditor: The length of time the Groups annuitants will live and therefore the projected cash flows for annuity liabilities are key assumptions in calculating insurance liabilities.
Assumptions regarding annuitant longevity are reviewed by the Committee, which receives regular reports on the actual against expected number of deaths from the Chief Actuary.
The Committee assesses the components of the assumptions, which take into account the medical and lifestyle evidence collected during the underwriting process, and assessments of how this experience will develop in future.
The Committee takes into consideration input from the Groups lead reinsurer and managements own industry experience in addition to receiving a recommendation from the Actuarial Function Holder.
Such recommendations are also reviewed by the actuary advising the auditor: Assumptions used to value the Groups lifetime mortgage loans include projections of future cash flows expected to arise from each loan.
Future cash flows allow for expected house price growth, house price volatility, mortality experience and the costs arising from no-negative equity guarantees.
The Committee addresses these by receiving reports from both the Chief Actuary and the Actuarial Function Holder regarding development of assumptions and any changes thereto: and Assumptions used to value reinsurance assets include longevity and economic assumptions and the credit quality of the reinsurers.
The Committee considers the assumptions alongside those used in the calculation of insurance liabilities and in addition receives a recommendation from both the Chief Actuary and the Actuarial Function Holder.
The Committee also considers the impacts and rationale related to the recapture process in light of managements own industry experience.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 51 Corporate governance report2014 continued Statement from the Chairman of the Audit Committee continued The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures in relation to key judgements have been included in the financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the Committee considered reports and analysis prepared by management and constructively challenged the assumptions.
Detailed reporting from, and discussion with, the external auditor were also considered by the Committee.
Other key financial reporting assurance work undertaken by the Committee involved reviewing the: Impairment reviews regarding the economic values of intangible assets held by the Group and investments in Group subsidiaries: Accounting for the Companys share schemes: and Accounting for the reorganisation of the Group prior to the IPO.
External audit A review of KPMGs independence and audit process effectiveness was conducted by the Audit Committee, as part of its review of the Groups financial reporting for the year to 30 June 2014.
KPMG had proposed that a parent entity, KPMG LLP, be the auditor for the year ending 30June 2015, as they sought to wind down the activity of KPMG Audit Plc.
The Committee was satisfied with the assurances given by KPMG that the Company would still be served by the same engagement team and there would be no adverse effect on service delivery.
Accordingly the Committee recommended to the Board that shareholder approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM for the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor for 2015 and for the Board to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process by: Reviewing KPMGs audit plan at the start of the audit cycle, their materiality level and identification of key audit risks: Challenging the findings of KPMG in testing managements assumptions and estimates in relation to the key audit risks: Considering the execution of KPMGs audit against the plan and their reporting to the Committee in respect of the half year and full year financial statements: and Discussions with management and without management present the audit engagement partner.
Management reported to the Committee that they were satisfied that the quality of the external audit process had been good, with appropriate focus and challenge on the key audit risks.
Based on this and its own assessment work, the Committee agreed with the view of management.
To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the Companys auditor, there is a Group policy governing the undertaking of non-audit services by external auditors, which was reviewed by the Committee during the period.
The Committee was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of KPMG was not impaired by the nature of the non-audit services undertaken during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged or any other circumstances.
Excluding IPO reporting accountant fees of 1.36m, non-audit fees payable to KPMG totalled 0.38m for tax advisory and other assurance services during the year.
An analysis of their audit and non-audit fees for the year is given in note 4 to the financial statements on page 85.
In assessing KPMGs independence, the Committee received written confirmation that, in KPMGs professional judgement, KPMG is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Committee noted the requirement under the Code to tender the external audit services contract at least every 10 years and the need for audit tendering to fit a partner rotation cycle of five years.
The Committees current intention is to consider tendering arrangements at the time of the next audit partner rotation.
Internal audit Group Internal Audit provides the Audit Committee with a quarterly update report.
The purpose of this report is to highlight any major control issues arising from the annual assurance plan approved by the Committee, together with information on current activities and reports on the progress, findings and recommendations in respect of actions required of management.
The Committee discussed the lessons learned from, and challenged whether further actions or changes to process were required as a result of, internal audit findings and recommendations.
Other key assurance work undertaken by the Committee included reviewing the resourcing of the Groups internal audit function and considering the commissioning of external independent assurance in respect of the Groups project for implementing Solvency II.
A bottom-up review of the operational risk management process identified additional development actions to further embed the positive Group risk culture by strengthening the level of challenge and improving the consistency of risk application in day-to-day activities.
The Audit Committee commissioned Deloitte during the year to conduct a report on the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function against stakeholder expectations and professional standards, which they subsequently assessed overall as operating effectively, conforming to good practice and with no material recommendations for improvement.
The Committee was satisfied that, in the context of the Groups risk appetite and overall risk management system, internal audit resources had been applied effectively to key areas of the business.
Les Owen Committee Chairman 52 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Statement from the Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee Oversight role of Committee The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The risk appetite set by the Board, which governs our overall attitude to risk and reward, is based on the delivery of long-term value and confidence for our shareholders and the most appropriate outcomes for our customers.
The Risk and Compliance Committee reviews and challenges the overall effectiveness of the Groups risk management, regulatory systems and controls and future developments.
The Committees key responsibilities, which are explained in more detail in its terms of reference, are to assist and advise the Board in the discharge of its risk and regulatory oversight responsibilities by: Recommending to the Board the Groups overall risk appetite: Assessing the management of risks so that Group risk exposures and emerging risks remain within agreed risk tolerances and limits: and Reviewing the effectiveness of the systems for monitoring compliance with applicable laws, regulations and the findings of regulatory bodies.
Main activities of the Committee Since the Companys listing in November 2013 until the date of this report, the Risk and Compliance Committee has met on four occasions.
The business risks as a consequence of the Governments Budget announcement on 19 March 2014 were dealt with by the Board, with input from the Chief Risk Officer, which was appropriate in the circumstances.
The process of agenda setting for each Committee meeting is driven by an annual programme of business, based on the Committees terms of reference and regular one-to-one discussions I have with the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Regulatory and Audit Director, to ensure that all significant areas of risk are reported on and considered.
The main activities undertaken by the Committee during the year were: Reviewed the risk appetites used to guide management in pursuing the Groups business plan: Monitored the delivery of the Group business plan against the agreed appetite for each key risk: Assessed individual risks against the Groups appetite through the use of scenario analyses: Reviewed the Groups Own Risk Solvency Assessment ORSA which provides a broader and more forward-looking assessment of Group risks and whether adequate capital and contingency plans are in place: Monitored the progress of preparations for Solvency II and considering the provision of external independent assurance: Reviewed regular reports on regulatory compliance and managements dialogues with the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA aimed at better understanding the areas of developing focus for the regulators and how these might influence the oversight role of the Committee: Considered changes to risk management and compliance policies and, where appropriate, recommended their approval to the Board: Reviewed managements approach to cyber-crime risk and information security: Maintained a close liaison with the Audit Committee, helping to inform the Committees oversight of the Groups risk management framework: and Reviewed the results of an evaluation of risk management effectiveness, concluding that the Groups risk management approach and application was suitable for the complexity and scale of its business and was operating effectively, with some areas for further improvement during 2014 15.
The Committee advised the Board that, in reaching this conclusion, it had considered information provided by the Group Riskfunction.
Looking forward into our next financial year, the focus of the Committee will be on two significant issues: Adapting the Group risk operating model to align with organisational change and managements implementation of business strategy inresponse to the Governments proposed reforms to the retirement income market: and Completion of key steps to ensure the Groups readiness for Solvency II implementation.
Keith Nicholson Committee Chairman Annual Report & Accounts 2014 53
