Board and Governance Corporate Governance report Dear Shareholder, Board has been in transition during the year, the Board The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group to willbe conducting an externally facilitated review during assist it in achieving its strategic aims, and to promote 2014 15 and will report its findings next year.
thelong-term success of the Group for the benefit of its shareholders and those with whom we connect.
For an The year ahead will continue to be impacted by a challenging iconic brand like Burberry with a 158-year heritage guided external environment and significant regulatory changes to by the values to protect, explore and inspire we believe the rules on directors remuneration and narrative reporting.
that this is an important responsibility.
Burberry continues to experience growth and the evolution of its business.
The Board and I will endeavour to ensure The Boards role is particularly important during times of that we continue to grow in a long-term and sustainable way significant change.
In October, Angela Ahrendts informed for our shareholders and wider stakeholders, and to provide the Board that she had decided to step down as Chief appropriate support to ensure a smooth management Executive Officer and the Board unanimously agreed transition and Board evolution.
thatChristopher Bailey would be her successor as Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer.
Christopher assumed Sir John Peace this role on 1 May.
I want to thank Angela personally for Chairman building a great culture and leading the Company through its transformation over the last eight years.
Governance The appointment of Christopher as Chief Creative and The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Burberrys ChiefExecutive Officer is a natural progression.
Christopher long-term success, for setting its strategic aims and ensuring has been at Burberry since 2001 and has overseen all a framework of prudent and effective controls.
consumer-facing activities including products, creative marketing, store design, consumer technology and digital This report sets out the Boards approach and work during innovation.
Christopher will continue to create and drive the financial year 2013 14 and, together with the Directors thevision for the Company closely supported by an Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106, includes details outstanding and experienced senior management team.
of how the Company has applied and complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance The Board is also in a period of evolution as it has Code the Code.
The directors consider that the Company beenfocused on how to build on its relevant skills has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout andcompetencies for the future in accordance with its the year, with the exception of conducting an externally succession plan.
Good progress has been made on this facilitated board effectiveness review.
The rationale for during the year, with the announcement of the appointment notconducting an externally facilitated review is set out of three new non-executive directors.
Boardmembers will step down as appropriate but it is important to ensure stability while new Board members Our Board settle into their roles.
The Board will continue to focus The Board currently consists of ten members the onitssuccession plan during the coming year.
Chairman, the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and I am delighted to welcome Matthew Key and Jeremy six independent non-executive directors.
Christopher Darroch who have joined the Board as non-executive Bailey was appointed as Chief Creative and Chief Executive directors during the year, and Carolyn McCall who will join Officer and as a director on 1 May 2014 following Angela the Board as a non-executive director on 1 September Ahrendts stepping down on 30 April 2014.
These appointments bring additional mobile, digital, and their biographies is set out on pages 66 and 67. media, financial, consumer travel and general management experience to the Board, reflecting the Groups strategy.
The Chairman, Sir John Peace, has led the Board as Carol Fairweather joined the Board in July and assumed Chairman since 2002.
The Chairman is responsible for therole of Chief Financial Officer on Stacey Cartwrights leading and managing the business of the Board and departure, and John Smith is now well established as ensuring its effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for theGroups Chief Operating Officer.
Boarddiscussions and ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, particularly in The 2013 14 Board effectiveness review confirmed that the relation to the Companys performance.
He promotes Board had performed well, maintaining its business focus aculture of openness and trust which allows for debate despite a number of key challenges during the year.
As the andconstructive challenge of the executive directors.
74 Board and Governance The Chairman works collaboratively with the Chief Creative Role of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Christopher Bailey, in setting Burberry continues to experience growth and evolution of its the Board agenda and ensuring any actions agreed by the business while in a period of transition in its leadership.
It is Board are effectively implemented.
the responsibility of the Board to ensure we continue to grow in a controlled and sustainable way for our shareholders and wider During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact stakeholders, and to provide appropriate support to ensure a and met with the Senior Independent Director and other smooth management transition and Board evolution.
non-executive directors outside of formal Board meetings.
The Chairman also met with the non-executive directors The Board is ultimately responsible for promoting the without the executive directors being present.
long-term success of the Group.
The Board leads and provides direction for management by setting strategy and The Chairman is also responsible to shareholders for the overseeing its implementation by management.
The Board Companys performance and has regular discussions with is also responsible for oversight of the Groups systems the Companys main institutional shareholders.
ofgovernance, internal control and risk management.
The major commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved biography on page 66 and have not changed during the year.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, the annual budget and operating plans, The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, major capital expenditure and transactions, financial supports the Chairman in his role and leads the nonresults, the dividend, the approval of risk appetite and executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman.
The matters reserved for the TheSenior Independent Director is also available as an Boards decision are set out in writing and available additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Non-executive directors provide strong experience Role of the Board Committees and independent support to the Board.
They assist in the The Board is supported in its activities by a number of development of strategy and provide constructive challenge committees including the following principal committees: and support to management.
Audit Committee: Nomination Committee: and Remuneration Committee.
All the non-executive directors The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, are members of each of the principal committees of the Christopher Bailey, is responsible for the management of Board.
The Board believes this to be appropriate as the the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for Board remains relatively small and this ensures the linkage consideration and approval by the Board and implementing between the workof the Committees and the Board.
The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer is assisted by members of his senior management The terms of reference of each of the principal committees team who meet regularly.
Members of the senior can be viewed on the Companys website at burberryplc.
management team are identified on page 107.
The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage The Company Secretary, Catherine Sukmonowski, third-party consultants and independent professional isresponsible for supporting the Chairman in the delivery advisors and can call upon other resources of the Group to of the corporate governance agenda.
assist them in discharging their respective responsibilities.
Board Chief Creative and Nomination Remuneration Audit Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer Risk Senior Committee Management Team Supply Chain Global Health and Global Ethics Risk Committee Safety Committee Committee 75 Board and Governance In addition to the relevant committee members and the Highlights of Board activities during 2013 14 Company Secretary, external advisors and, on occasion, During the year the Board held six scheduled meetings, other directors and members of the senior management including an in-depth two-day session on strategy, and team attend committee meetings but only at the invitation onead hoc meeting.
Between meetings directors spend a of the Chairmen of the Committees.
significant amount of time on Board and Committee related matters.
The Board considers that it met sufficiently often Set out on pages 82 to 86 are reports from the Audit and to enable the directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 88 to 106.
The Board agendas were shaped to ensure that discussion was focused on the Groups strategic priorities and key Board effectiveness monitoring activities, as well as reviews of significant issues.
In addition, to allow for opportunities for the Board In the face of a number of key challenges during the year, to engage with senior management to discuss key elements particularly changes to the management team, the Board did not of the business, a number of Board dinners were held lose its focus on ensuring the creation of shareholder value over the during the year.
The table below gives the highlights of how medium and long-term.
The Chairman is commended for his skill the Board spent its time during its 2013 14 financial year in leading the Board through these changes and maintaining the but is not an exhaustive list of topics covered.
information on the Groups strategic focus during the yearis set out in the Strategic Themes section starting on page 32.
Month Strategy Business Focus Oversight and Risk Governance May Japan strategy and updates on Review of 2012 13 financial UK Governance Code and other various business areas projects.
yearpreliminary results regulatory requirements for announcement, Annual Report Annual Report.
and Accounts and dividend policy.
Review of risk and internal controls Board succession matters.
July Update on various business AGM.
Review of Chairman and Business focus: inventory non-executive director fees.
September Annual strategy session Strategic risks and impact Board succession matters.
Product showroom presentation and meet and greet with senior management.
October November Digital systems and opportunities Review of 2013 14 interim results Investor relations update.
Review of risk, internal control Consideration of Treasury Policy.
Board and management Review of audit plan for 2013 14 succession matters.
February Strategic opportunities, Business controls and approach Investor relations update.
digitalcommerce and to technology risk.
Board and management Japanstrategy update.
March Year end review of the business.
Business focus: foreign Review of conflicts of interest.
Board and management Business focus: digital systems.
76 Board and Governance Evaluating our performance in 2013 14 concerns.
Written feedback from the review was obtained The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance from each director and a report of the key themes and and that of its Committees each financial year, with an recommended actions arising from the review was external evaluation once every three years.
In the normal providedto the Directors as a backdrop for Board course the Board would have undertaken its next externally discussion.
The Chairman also spoke to Board members facilitated review during the year.
However, given that the onan individual basis.
Board has been in transition during the year with the Chief The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and non-executive Director, also considered the performance of the Chairman director changes, theBoard decided to postpone the without the Chairman present.
It was noted that in the face external review until 2014 15.
This was on the basis that an of a number of key challenges during the year, particularly external review would provide more valuable insight if it took changes to the management team, the Board did not lose place after this transition was complete and new Board its focus on ensuring the creation of shareholder value over members had the opportunity to settle into their roles.
The Chairman was commended In keeping with its approach over the last few years, the for his skill in leading the Board through the various Board and Committee effectiveness review continued to challenges and for ensuring that the Board maintained follow a more discursive approach by encouraging the itsbusiness focus.
directors to express their views on any area of Board and Below is a summary of the key views and recommendations Committee effectiveness.
This approach has worked well identified in the 2013 14 Board effectiveness review and the as it reflects the collaborative nature of the Board and has actions taken in response to last years review.
encouraged the open airing of top of mind thoughts or Key Themes 2012 13 Review 2013 14 Review Views recommendations Actions taken Views recommendations Board composition Adoption of a succession plan to Board succession was a key The Board succession refresh the Board over the next focusduring the year with processisnot yet complete two years and alignment on core theappointment of three butthe consensus is that competencies required.
Board Committee The right balance is being struck The annual strategy session Strategy must continue to be focus between time spent on strategy, agenda reflected the areas of astrong focus for the Board.
focus recommended in the review.
Directors continue to be strongly aligned on the key areas for Strong alignment of views on what Continued opportunities were strategic focus in the coming year.
should be the strategic focus for made available for engagement 2013 14. outside of formal meetings and The Board should ensure that interaction with a wide range of appropriate support is provided Welcome continued opportunities senior management.
See tonew Board members during this for non-executive director Highlights of Board activities time of transition.
The involvement engagement and interaction with during 2013 14 on page 76. of senior management in Board senior management.
meetings and more informal meetings continues to be important particularly to provide non-executive directors with additional insight.
Board Committee Overall the existing Board and The Board effectiveness review The Board performed well, effectiveness Committee structure works well continued to follow the more maintaining its business focus and provides a good standard of discursive approach by despite a number of key governance as well as support to encouraging the directors challenges during the year, management.
The Board operates toexpress their views on any particularly changes to the with a high level of trust.
areaofBoard and Committee management team.
is commended for his skill in The discursive approach to the leading the Board through these Board effectiveness review was changes.
The Committees preferred as it encouraged open performed well, particularly debate.
indealing with a number of significant regulatory changes.
There is an opportunity to optimise more two-way engagement with the Board during meetings to ensure management is leveraging on non-executive director experience, particularly during thistime of transition.
77 Board and Governance The table below gives details of directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Ad hoc Sir John Peace 6 6 1 1 4 4 1 Angela Ahrendts 6 6 1 1 4 4 Philip Bowman 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 6 6 Ian Carter 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 6 6 5 Stacey Cartwright 1 1 2 Jeremy Darroch 1 2 1 1 0 1 1 2 Stephanie George 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 6 6 3 Carol Fairweather 5 5 1 1 4 Matthew Key 4 4 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 John Smith 6 6 1 1 David Tyler 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 6 6 1 Angela Ahrendts stepped down from the Board and the Nomination Committee on 30 April 2014.
2 Jeremy Darroch was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Committees on 5 February 2014.
Jeremy was unable to attend one Board, Nomination and Remuneration Committee meeting due to a commitment made prior to his appointment.
3 Carol Fairweather was appointed to the Board on 11 July 2013.
4 Matthew Key was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2013 and as a member of the Committees on 26 September 2013.
5 Stacey Cartwright stepped down from the Board on 12 July 2013.
Time allocation Board as an executive director on 11 July 2013 and Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer on Stacey appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of his Cartwrights departure on 31 July 2013. or her directorship.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary Board succession for the proper performance of their duties.
This is expected The Nomination Committee continued its focus on evolving to be approximately 20 days each year for basic duties.
The the Boards relevant skills and competencies for the future Chairman and Senior Independent Director are expected to under its succession plan.
Good progress has been made spend additional time over and above this to discharge their on this during the year with the appointment of Matthew added responsibilities.
Key and Jeremy Darroch as non-executive directors, and the announcement that Carolyn McCall would be appointed External directorships asa non-executive director effective from 1September 2014.
The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only These appointments bring additional mobile, digital, media, one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
financial, consumer travel and general management Details of the directors other directorships can be found expertise to the Board reflecting theGroups strategy.
intheir biographies on pages 66 and 67.
Longer serving Board members will step down as Board and Committee composition appropriate but it is important to ensure stability while The non-executive directors are drawn from a wide range of evolving the Board so that new Board members have the industries and backgrounds, including mobile, digital, media, opportunity to settle into their roles before longer serving retail, financial services, hotels and hospitality, marketing and members step down.
The Board is aiming to make further accountancy.
They have extensive experience of complex appointments during the year.
organisations with global reach, including experience of theGroups key markets of Europe, the Americas and Asia.
All new Board appointments are based on merit, keeping Their varied yet relevant experience brings a wealth of inmind the Board composition principles adopted by the insight to Board discussions and important support to the Committee.
These principles are to: management team.
The biographical details of the current maintain current core competencies: directors can be foundon pages 66 and 67 of this AnnualReport.
add new competencies which reflect the evolution oftheGroups business: Management changes ensure compatibility with Burberrys culture and In October, Angela Ahrendts informed the Board that she values:and would step down as Chief Executive Officer and the Board agreed that Christopher Bailey would be appointed her promote diversity, including in terms of gender.
successor as Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer.
Angela formally stepped down as Chief Executive Officer Please see the Report from the Nomination Committee on and as a director on 30 April 2014 and Christopher was page 86 for more information on the appointment process.
Carol Fairweather joined the 78 Board and Governance Diversity and inclusion Information flow and professional development Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary rightmix of skills and experience for the Board.
The Board inthe planning of the agendas and schedule of Board and believes in the importance of diverse Board membership.
Committee meetings and in ensuring that information is made available to Board members on a timely basis and Following Angela Ahrendts stepping down as a director, isof a quality appropriate to enable the Board to effectively ofthe ten directors currently on the Board, two are women discharge its duties.
including one of the executive directors comprising 20% of total membership.
Once Carolyn McCall joins the Board on As set out in the table Highlights of Board activities during 1 September 2014 women will comprise 27% ofthe Board, 2013 14 on page 76, the Board is kept up to date on legal, meeting the goal set out by Lord Davies on diversity regulatory, compliance and governance matters through inBritains boardrooms, of a minimum of 25% female advice and regular papers from the Company Secretary, representation on FTSE 100 boards by 2015.
TheBoard the General Counsel and other advisors.
willmonitor diversity and takesuch steps as itconsiders appropriate to maintain Burberrys position asa The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing meritocratic and diverse business.
and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new directors and their ongoing training.
During the year newly The Board believes that it is critical that women are able appointed directors received an induction covering the key tosucceed at all levels of the organisation.
Currently, of business areas and operations, the corporate functions, atotal workforce of 10,604, approximately 68% is female strategy and the Burberry brand and culture.
In addition, and approximately 38% of senior management is female.
non-executive directors are provided with opportunities to meet with members of senior management and to visit key More broadly, diversity is at the heart of Group culture stores and markets.
The Chairman considers the training which is characterised by a meritocratic and collaborative needs of directors on an ongoing basis.
At our Group headquarters in London, 59 different nationalities are represented.
The Board have direct access to the advice and services ofthe Company Secretary and the appointment and The Company continues to focus on evolving its strategies removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for recruiting and developing key talent within the business forthe Board as a whole.
Directors may also obtain, in in a way which promotes the Groups cultural values and thefurtherance of their duties, independent professional diverse and meritocratic environment.
See the Our People advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
Re-election of directors Board tenure At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, all continuing directors offered themselves for re-election.
Each director was re-elected and no director received less than 93% infavour of the votes cast.
At the Annual General Meeting 0 5 years in2014, all of thedirectors will again retire and all will offer 5 10 years themselves forre-election or, in the case of the newly 10 years or above appointed directors, for election.
The Board believes that each of the directors standing forre-election or election are effective and, accordingly, theBoard recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2014 Annual General The balance of tenure of service of the directors is set Meeting relating to the re-election or election of outinthe diagram above.
At the time of the 2014 Annual thedirectors.
General Meeting, Sir John Peace, Philip Bowman and DavidTyler will have served on the Board for 12 years.
Managing conflicts of interest All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to The Board is satisfied that all of our non-executive directors avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct are independent.
The performance of Philip Bowman, or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest DavidTyler, Stephanie George and Ian Carter has been with the Company and the Group.
subject to a rigorous review including with regard to their independence.
The Board has concluded that they Under the Groups Articles of Association, the Board has contribute valuable insight and experience to Board the authority to approve situational conflicts of interest deliberations and continue to provide independent and and has adopted procedures to manage and, where constructive challenge to the executive directors.
On that appropriate, to approve such conflicts.
Authorisations basis and keeping in mind the need to ensure a smooth granted by the Board are recorded by the Company succession as part of the Board succession plan, the Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board at Boardconcluded that these directors remain effective itsnext meeting.
79 Board and Governance A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system is undertaken by the Board annually.
Following the last of internal controls and risk management, and it discharges review, the Board concluded that the conflicts had been its duties in this area by: appropriately authorised, no circumstances existed which determining the nature and extent of the significant risks would necessitate that any prior authorisation be revoked it is willing to accept in achieving the Groups strategic or amended, and the authorisation process continued to objectives the Boards risk appetite : and operate effectively.
ensuring that management implement effective systems Engagement with shareholders of risk identification, assessment and mitigation.
The Board believes that effective leadership also involvesmaintaining an open and constructive dialogue The Audit Committee has been delegated the with shareholders and other stakeholders, and seeks responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups toachieve this in various ways including at the Annual internal controls.
The Audit Committee uses information GeneralMeeting.
drawn from a number of different sources to carry out thisresponsibility including: The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer and objective assurance provided by Internal Audit through ChiefFinancial Officer give presentations to institutional its annual work plan, which is approved by the Audit shareholders and analysts immediately following the Committee and focuses on the principal risks identified release of the half and full year results which are then in the risk assessment and key internal controls: madeavailable on the Groups website at burberryplc.
The Groups Investor Relations and Company Secretariat regular reports to the Audit Committee from executive departments act as the centre for ongoing communication management and key Group assurance functions with shareholders, investors and analysts.
detailing their risk management and compliance approaches and highlighting any significant issues: The Chairman also maintains a regular dialogue with major key outcomes from discussions at the Groups shareholders to hear their views and to discuss issues of RiskCommittee: and mutual importance and communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
During the year a combination further objective assurance is provided by of our Chairman, the former Chief Executive Officer, the externalauditors.
Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman of the Remuneration The internal control framework has been in operation for the Committee met with 21 of our top 25 investors.
Topics whole of the year under review and continues to operate up discussed included but were not limited to the Companys to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
performance, Board and management succession, the Regular self-certification has also been in place for key Directors Remuneration Policy and the Groups proposed finance processes to confirm the documented control new share plan.
The Senior Independent Director and all framework continues to efficiently and effectively manage the other non-executive directors are available to meet risk.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage withshareholders as required.
rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not The Group also conducted its regular independent investor absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
audit of its major investors through Makinson Cowell, a capital markets advisory firm, to gauge investor perception.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed The investor audit findings were presented to the Board.
theassessment of risks and the Groups internal control framework and has considered the effectiveness of the Effective internal controls system of internal control in operation in the Group for The Group has a clear and consistent strategy as reflected theyear covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and in its key strategic themes.
The strategy has been up to the date of its approval by the Board.
This covered developed to exploit identified opportunities through the allmaterial controls including financial, operational and Groups business model.
Where material risks have been compliance controls and risk management systems.
identified within our business, the Group has implemented Theprocess followed by the Board in reviewing the system an appropriate internal control environment to endeavour of internal controls as set out above accords with the to mitigate such risks.
guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
It also accords with the provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code.
80 Board and Governance Group approach to managing risks are then consolidated to provide input into the Group risk The Group has an integrated approach to risk management assessment which is discussed by management at the Risk and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is used Committee prior to presentation to the Audit Committee.
to inform the internal audit process and the design of This process also enables Internal Audit to engage with internal controls.
senior management throughout the business on risk monitoring and management.
A detailed three-year strategic plan and annual budget process provides the principal metrics against which the There are areas of the Groups business where it is performance of the Group is measured.
The strategic plan necessary to accept risks to achieve a satisfactory return and budget are agreed with the Board together with defined for shareholders, such risks reflecting the Boards overall performance targets and risks to delivery.
The plan and the appetite for risk.
During 2013 14 the Audit Committee, in principal risks for delivering the strategy also form part of conjunction with the full Board, considered and reviewed the Boards annual review of Group strategy.
the nature and extent of these risks.
It is the Groups objective to apply expertise to prudently manage rather Executive management assess risk on a regular basis than eliminate such risks including keeping them under through the Groups Risk Committee which meets at least frequent review.
three times per year and reports any key findings to the Audit Committee.
The Groups Risk Committee evaluates For details of the principal risks which may adversely risk through reports made to it by Internal Audit and other impact the performance of the Group and the execution assurance teams and management committees.
The ofits strategies and the steps the Group takes to address Committee benefits from cross-functional membership these risks where they are matters within Group control, encompassing senior management of key areas such as see the Principal Risks section on pages 61 to 63.
IT, Finance, Legal, Brand Protection, Company Secretariat, Corporate Responsibility, Human Resources, Supply Chain, Financial reporting Asset and Profit Protection, and Health and Safety.
The Management is responsible for establishing and Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer maintaining adequate internal controls over financial and its members include the Chief Financial Officer, the reporting.
These controls are designed to provide Chief Corporate Affairs Officer & General Counsel, the reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial VicePresident of Audit and Risk Assurance, the Company reporting and the preparation of financial statements for Secretary and other members of senior management.
The executive directors also meet with senior management The Group has comprehensive planning, budgeting, on a regular basis to discuss performance, operational and forecasting and monthly reporting processes in place.
budget issues to identify any emerging risks to achieving Asummary of the Groups financial results supported the budget and strategic plan.
bycommentary and performance measures is provided totheBoard each month.
All internal audit activity is conducted by the Internal Audit team under the leadership of the Vice President of Audit In relation to the preparation of the Group financial and Risk Assurance, who reports to the Chief Financial statements, the controls in place include: Officer, but also has an independent reporting line to the a centre of expertise responsible for reviewing Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In view of Internal Audits newdevelopments in reporting requirements recommendations, management agrees and implements andstandardstoensure that these are reflected corrective action plans, which are tracked to completion inGroupaccounting policies: byInternal Audit, with the results reported to executive management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
a dedicated finance governance team which is responsible for developing the Groups financial As part of the Boards consideration of the principal risks controlprocesses and procedures and implementing facing the Group, the Vice President of Audit and Risk them across the Group: and Assurance facilitates a risk assessment process in each a global finance structure consisting of employees keybusiness area and global support function to review withthe appropriate expertise to ensure that Group thesignificant risks facing its operations and to record policies and procedures are correctly applied.
therelevant controls and any actions in place to mitigate Effectivemanagement and control of the finance the risks.
The materiality of the risk is measured based on structure is achieved through the finance leadership financial and non-financial criteria, and the probability of team, consistingof key finance employees from the the risk arising is also mapped.
The detailed assessments regions andcorporate headquarters.
81 Board and Governance The reporting process is supported by transactional and consolidation finance systems.
Reviews of controls are Report of the Audit Committee carried out by senior finance management.
The results Dear Shareholder, ofthese reviews are considered by the Board as part ofitsmonitoring of theperformance of controls around The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity financial reporting.
of financial information and to provide assurance to theBoard that the Groups internal controls and risk The Audit Committee reviews the application of financial management systems are appropriate and regularly reporting standards and any significant accounting reviewed, together with overseeing the work of the external judgements made by management.
auditors, approving their remuneration and recommending their appointment.
Control environment The Groups business model is based primarily on a central During the year the Committee continued to focus on design, supply chain and distribution operation to supply ensuring that the Groups systems and controls are products to global markets, via retail including digital and operating effectively, are responsive to a challenging wholesale channels.
This is reflected in the internal control external environment and are evolving in line with the framework which includes central direction, resource Groups growth, including the new Beauty business.
allocation, oversight and risk management of the key TheCommittee also focused on a number of significant activities of marketing, inventory management, brand regulatory changes impacting accounting and corporate andtechnology development.
This includes central reporting requirements.
supportin relation to corporate governance, legal, brand protection, human resources, information systems and The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
Inaddition to the usual work of the Committee as set out inthe table on page 83, the Committee also considered The Group has established procedures for the delegation thesignificant matters set out in the table on page 84. ofauthorities to ensure that approval for matters that areconsidered significant is considered and given at an Where these significant matters related to the financial appropriate level, either because of their value or their statements for the year, the Committee requested papers materiality to the Group.
In addition, the Group has policies from management setting out their approach, the key and procedures in place that are designed to support risk estimates and judgements applied and managements management across the Group.
The Committee reviewed and challenged and procedures are kept under review as the Group these papers, together with the findings of the external continues to grow.
These include policies relating auditors, in order to conclude on the appropriateness to treasury, the conduct of employees and third parties ofthetreatment in the financial statements.
with which the Group conducts business including prohibiting bribery and corruption.
The Committee has a constructive and open relationship with management and the auditors and we thank them Accountability and audit fortheir assistance during the year.
The Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is required to be fair, balanced and understandable and Philip Bowman provide the information necessary for shareholders to Chairman, Audit Committee assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 110.
The Report of the Auditors on page 111 includes a statement by the auditors concerning their reporting responsibilities.
82 Board and Governance Committee membership CorporateAffairs Officer & General Counsel, the Company The following directors served as members of the Secretary, the Senior Vice President Group Finance, Committee during the year ending 31 March 2014: theVice President Group Financial Controller, the Vice President of Group Tax and the representatives of the Members Appointment date external auditors.
Philip Bowman Chairman 21 June 2002 The Board is satisfied that Philip Bowman as Chairman has Ian Carter 18 May 2007 recent and relevant financial experience and that all other Jeremy Darroch 5 February 2014 Committee members have past employment experience Stephanie George 19 May 2006 ineither finance or accounting roles or broad experience Matthew Key 26 September 2013 and knowledge of financial reporting and or international David Tyler 21 June 2002 businesses.
Details of their experience can be found in theirbiographies on pages 66 and 67.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The attendance record of Committee members is recorded Role of the Committee in the table on page 78.
In addition to the scheduled The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee meetings the Chairman of the Committee meets separately are set out in written terms of reference which are available with the Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President of on the Companys website at burberryplc.
The Audit and Risk Assurance on a regular basis including prior Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
of its key responsibilities, the Committee considered the following items of usual business during the financial year Regular attendees at Committee meetings include: the as set out in the table below.
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer, the VicePresident of Audit and Risk Assurance, the Chief Key Committee roles and responsibilities Usual business conducted during 2013 14 Financial Reports: Review of the Annual Report and Accounts, annual financial statements, preliminary announcement, and interim announcement.
On behalf of the The integrity of the Groups financial Boardthe consideration of whether the processes and procedures in place statements and formal announcements ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced of the Groups performance.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern fortheforeseeable future.
Consideration of the report of the external auditors on the financial statements for the year, and on the year end audit.
Ensuring compliance with relevant regulations for financial reporting andUKCorporate Governance Code.
Risks and Internal Controls: Review of the Groups statement in the Governance Report on internal controlsand risk management.
The Groups internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk identification and Review of business risk assessments.
Review of Group policies Treasury Policy review and compliance.
for identifying and assessing risks and arrangements for Health and safety reviews.
employees to raise concerns in confidence Whistleblowing reports.
Internal Audit: Consideration of the result of internal audits and management responses to the findings.
Review of the annual internal audit programme and the consideration of findings of any internal Approval of the internal audit plan for 2014 15. investigations and managements response.
Review of internal audit resourcing.
Review of effectiveness of the internal audit function.
External Auditors: Review and approval of the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for theGroups external auditors,  LLP, for the 2013 14 Recommending the appointment of external auditors, financial year see below.
approving their remuneration and overseeing their work.
Review and approval of the audit plan for the year presented by the Groups Policies on the engagement of the external auditors for auditors in November 2013.
Consideration of the key areas of risk and the the supply of non-audit services.
auditapproach applied to these areas, the proposed areas of coverage of theaudit, changes of scope and areas of risk in the current year plan and theresource plan.
Review of all non-audit services provided by the Groups auditors during theperiod and the fees relating to the services provided see page 85.
83 Board and Governance Significant matters for theyear ended 31March 2014 How the Audit Committee addressed these matters The calculation of the fair value of the put option over the The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged the appropriateness non-controlling interest in the Groups business in China.
ofthe key inputs used in the calculation of the fair value of this option.
The Audit Committee also considered the sensitivity of the fair value toreasonable changes in inputs.
Managements proposed new disclosures relating to the valuation, which have been included in the accounts as a result of the adoption of IFRS 13, were reviewed and agreed.
Further details of the valuation of the put option, which is valued at 51.3m at the year end, are set out in note 19 of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee concluded that the fair value of the put option, the disclosure of the valuation methodology and of the impact of the judgements applied were appropriate in the financial statements for the period.
The recoverability of the cost of inventory and the resulting The Audit Committee considered the Groups current provisioning amountofprovisioning required.
policy, the historic loss rates incurred on inventory held at the balance sheet date and the nature and condition of current inventory.
As this was the first year of the Group holding Beauty inventory, the Audit Committee requested management to set out their intended approach for estimating the recoverable amount for Beauty inventory.
The Committee also requested management to provide a detailed analysis of Beauty inventory at the year end, in order to consider the application of the agreed approach.
The Audit Committee concluded that the carrying value of inventory was appropriate.
Movements in inventory provisioning are set out in note 16 of the financial statements.
The Vice President of Group Tax, who reports to the Audit Committee at each meeting, presented a detailed update of the Groups tax strategy, developments relating to discussions with tax authorities and the status of ongoing tax audits.
The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged the appropriateness of assumptions and judgements applied in order to estimate the amount of assets and liabilities to be recognised in relation to uncertain income tax and deferred tax positions.
The Audit Committee concluded that the assets and liabilities recognised and disclosures contained in the financial statements for the period were appropriate.
Details of movements in tax balances are set out in notes 9 and 14 of the financial statements.
At the May and November meetings, the Audit Committee also considered managements papers on the following subjects: assessment of the carrying value of goodwill: impairment assessments of property, plant and equipment andintangible assets: and impairment assessments of trade receivables.
84 Board and Governance External auditors Non-audit services The Committee oversees the work undertaken by The Committee recognises that the independence  LLP.
During the year the oftheexternal auditors is an essential part of the Committee met with the external auditors without auditframework and the assurance that it provides.
TheCommittee hasadopted a policy which sets out aframework for determining whether it is appropriate Appointment and fees toengage the Groups auditors for non-audit services.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making Keyconsiderations set out in the policy include whether arecommendation on the appointment, reappointment theservices: andremoval of the external auditors.
The Committee are naturally tangential to the audit and which the assesses on an annual basis the qualifications, expertise, auditors are best placed to provide: resources and independence of the external auditors andthe effectiveness of the previous audit process.
cannot be regarded as naturally tangential to the audit, Overthe course of the year, the Committee has reviewed but where the external auditors are in a position to the audit process and the quality and experience of the provide the best service to the Group due to their audit partners engaged in the audit.
The Committee also previous experience, network within and knowledge of reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement the Group, or market leadership in a particular area: and for the 2013 14 financial year.
Details of the fees paid to the represent a real threat to the perceived or actual external auditors during the financial year can be found in independence of the audit team.
note 7 in the financial statements.
Under the policy, the auditors may provide non-audit  LLP have remained in place as services that do not prejudice their independence, subject auditors since prior to the IPO of the Company in 2002. to prior approval as set out in the policy.
Proposed fees They were reappointed with a new lead audit partner above a certain level must be approved by the Chairman of following a formal tender process undertaken by the the Audit Committee.
Such fees must be activity based and Groupfor the 2010 11 financial year.
The external auditors not success related.
At the half year and year end, the Audit are required to rotate the audit engagement partner every Committee reviews all non-audit services provided by the fiveyears.
The current audit partner commenced his auditors during the period and the fees relating to such engagement for the 2010 11 financial year and is not services.
If during the year Group expenditure for non-audit subject to rotation until after the audit of the Groups services exceeds 1.0m, all further requests for work must financial statements for the 2014 15 financial year has be referred to the Chairman of the Committee.
During the year, the Group spent 0.6m on non-audit During the year, the Committee approved the services provided by  LLP being reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement 32% of audit and audit-related fees.
Further details can be  LLP as the Groups external found in note 7. auditor.
The Committee recommended to the Board that itproposes to shareholders that  LLP be reappointed as the Groups external auditors at theGroups forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
85 Board and Governance Committee membership The following directors served as members of the Report of the Nomination Committee Committee during the year ended 31 March 2014: Dear Shareholder, Members Appointment date The role of the Nomination Committee is to: Sir John Peace Chairman 21 June 2002 review the balance and composition of the Board and Angela Ahrendts 23 March 2007 itsCommittees, ensuring that they remain appropriate: Philip Bowman 21 June 2002 be responsible for overseeing the Boards succession Ian Carter 18 May 2007 planning requirements including the identification and Jeremy Darroch 5 February 2014 assessment of potential Board candidates and making Stephanie George 23 March 2007 recommendations to the Board for its approval: and Matthew Key 26 September 2013 David Tyler 23 March 2007 keep under review the leadership needs of, and succession planning for, the Group in relation to both Angela Ahrendts stepped down as a member of the Committee on30April2014.
its executive directors and other senior executives.
This includes the consideration of recommendations Role of the Committee made by the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination for changes to the executive membership of the Board.
Committee are set out in written terms of reference whichare available on the Companys website at During 2013 14 the Committee has focused heavily burberryplc.
The Committee reviews its terms onexecutive and Board succession with the following ofreference annually.
The appointment on 1 May 2014 of Christopher Bailey Activities during the year asChief Creative and Chief Executive Officer succeeding The Nomination Committee met four times during the Angela Ahrendts.
The appointment of Carol Fairweather yearunder review.
The table on page 78 gives details of as a director on 11 July 2013, who succeeded Stacey directors attendance at these meetings.
The Committee Cartwright as Chief Financial Officer on 31 July 2013. spent a significant amount of time overseeing the process which led to the appointment of Christopher Bailey as Chief Implementation of the Board succession plan to refresh Creative and Chief Executive Officer, and the appointments the Board over a two-year period.
This has been aimed of Matthew Key, Jeremy Darroch and Carolyn McCall as atbalancing Board evolution with stability and in keeping non-executive directors.
The external search firm, Lygon with the Boards composition principles including Group, was used in the appointments of Matthew Key, promoting diversity including in terms of gender.
Good Jeremy Darroch and Carolyn McCall.
Due to Christopher progress has been made on this during the year with Baileys unique qualities and deep experience with the theappointment of Matthew Key and Jeremy Darroch business, it was agreed that it was not necessary to use asnon-executive directors, and the announcement that anexternal search firm or advertise for his appointment.
Carolyn McCall is appointed as a non-executive director Lygon Group has noother connection with the Company.
See Board succession on page78and Diversity and inclusion on page 79.
Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include theChief Corporate Affairs Officer and General Counsel Board succession and composition will remain a priority andthe Company Secretary.
forthe coming year as the Board continues to execute itssuccession plan.
Sir John Peace Chairman, Nomination Committee 86 Board and Governance Annual General Meeting and annual re-election Other governance disclosures ofdirectors Tax policy As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The Group is committed to complying with global tax Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting was sent to regulations in a responsible manner with due regard to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
governments and shareholders, and to engage in open A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before andconstructive relationships with tax authorities in the shareholders.
All directors, other than Stacey Cartwright, territories in which it operates.
The Groups tax planning who stepped down as a director at the Annual General isconsistent with this responsible approach, and it will not Meeting, attended the 2013 Annual General Meeting and enter into arrangements simply to achieve a tax advantage.
theChairman of the Board and the Chairmen of each oftheCommittees were available to answer Tax governance framework .
The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the Groups tax policy which is implemented with the assistance of the Voting at the upcoming 2014 Annual General Meeting will finance leadership team.
This is reviewed on an ongoing be by way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual basis as part of the regular financial planning cycle.
In General Meeting will be announced and details of the addition, the Groups tax status is reported regularly to the voteswill be available to view on the Groups website at Group Risk Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible burberryplc.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
for monitoring all significant tax matters including the Groups tax policy.
Audit Committee meetings are regularly It is the intention that all directors, including the Chairmen attended by a number of Group officers and employees of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, including the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President will attend the 2014 Annual General Meeting and will be Group Tax and the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer &General available to answer shareholders questions.
Counsel, who oversees all corporate responsibility matters.
All directors have, since the 2011 Annual General Meeting, Share capital offered themselves for annual re-election in accordance Further information about the Companys share capital, with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the 2014 including substantial shareholdings, can be found in the Annual General Meeting, all of the directors will again retire Directors Report on pages 70 to 73. and all will offer themselves for re-election or, in the case ofthe newly appointed directors, for election.
The biographical details of the current directors can be found on pages 66 and 67 of this Annual Report.
The Chairman confirms that, following the internal evaluation during the year led by the Chairman, the performance of each of the directors standing for election continues to beeffective anddemonstrates commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions tobe proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting relating tothe re-election or election of the directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
