Corporate governance 25 The directors are required to report on how the The board operates as a collective decision making forum.
Corporation has applied the main and supporting Individual directors are required to scrutinise reports principles in the UK Corporate Governance Code the produced by the executive and are encouraged to debate Code, and to confirm that it has complied with the issues in an open and constructive manner.
If one or more Codes provisions or, where this has not been the case, to directors cannot support a consensus decision, a vote will be taken and the views of a dissenting director recorded in provide an explanation.
This report relates to the Code as published in September 2012, a copy of which may be the minutes.
An updated version of Procedures are in place to enable independent the Code was published in September 2014 and will apply professional advice to be taken by individual directors at for the accounting period beginning 1 January 2015. the Corporations expense.
Appropriate insurance cover is Where possible, we have early adopted the new revised in place in respect of legal action against the directors.
The Corporation was a constituent of the FTSE 250 during the period of the review, so all of the The board meets regularly throughout the year.
The provisions of the Code apply to it.
However, the Code attendance records of the directors both at meetings of recognises that investment companies such as Law the board and, where relevant, meetings of board Debenture may have board structures which might affect committees are set out in the table below.
There was also the relevance of particular provisions of the Code.
Where a strategy day during the year attended by the directors.
Law Debenture has departed from any provisions of the Board Remuneration Audit Nominations Code, this is explained below.
This corporate governance statement forms a part of the directors report.
Number of meetings in the year 10 43 2 The board role, modus operandi and Meetings attended by: appraisal C. J. Banszky 10 The board includes a majority of non-executive directors.
M. G. O. Bridgeman 10 43 2 The names and biographies of the directors, all of whom J.
A. Kay 3 31 1 served throughout the year, are on page 45 of the annual R. Laing 10 43 2 report.
John Kay was a director until 9 April 2014.
C. Smith 10 4 2 The board is responsible for the overall strategy and Until 9 April 2014. management of the group, setting investment strategy The board keeps under review the performance of the and ensuring that the Corporation is operating in executive director and the chairman formally appraises all compliance with statutory and legal obligations.
There is the directors each year and implements any training or a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for education needs that might be identified.
The nonboard decision, published on the Corporations website executive directors meet once each year without the www.
com under investment-trust corporatepresence of the chairman to review the chairmans governance.
Matters connected with strategy and performance, the results of the review being discussed management, structure and capital, financial reporting with the chairman by the senior independent director and control, investment trust portfolio, contracts, SID.
The board evaluates its own performance and that shareholder communication, board membership and of its committees during the annual strategic away day and other appointments, remuneration and corporate considers these matters again after each AGM in the light governance are reserved for the board.
There is a of comments received from shareholders and other separate schedule setting out the division of responsibility interested parties.
The last external review was conducted between the chairman and managing director.
The chairman takes personal responsibility for leadership of the board and ensures that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He reviews channels for provision of information with the company secretary at least annually.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
