30 Audit committee report Annual statement by the chairman Principal activities of the committee of the audit committee During the year, the committees business included: I am pleased to present the Corporations audit consideration of the annual report and financial committee report for the year ending 31 December 2014. statements and of the half yearly report and statements The committee was comprised at the year end of me and including consideration of the final and interim one other independent non-executive director, Robert dividends: Laing.
John Kay was a member of the committee until his consideration of the Corporations matrix of risks and retirement on 9 April 2014. controls and general oversight of the groups internal control systems and procedures including in the context Role and duties of reports by the depositary and the Corporations The main function of the audit committee is to assist the obligations as an AIFM: board in the management of the groups finances, financial reporting structure and internal controls.
Our key meetings with the external auditor to discuss the 2013 duties are as follows: financial statements and, in the fourth quarter, to plan the 2014 audit.
These meetings included discussions on monitoring the independence and objectivity of the fees, auditor independence, key risks and developments auditors, their performance and agreeing their in accounting standards: remuneration: approval of internal audit programme: the appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors: consideration of all internal audit reports: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and receipt of assurances about reconciliations, procedures the statutory audit process and in particular focussing in place to prevent fraud and anti-bribery and corruption: on significant issues highlighted in the process: and developing and implementing policy on the engagement review of new accounting standards and the possible or not of the external auditor for non-audit services: impact on Law Debenture.
reviewing the annual and half yearly accounts before Shortly after the year end, the committee met with the submission to the board, including particular focus on external auditors to discuss the 2014 financial statements changes in accounting policy and providing an opinion and the outcome of that discussion is set out below.
to the board on whether the report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: and Risk management, internal control and internal audit reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal control The internal controls adopted by the group are set out in and risk management, including monitoring the the corporate governance report.
The board as a whole is executive risk management function, the internal audit responsible for the effectiveness of internal control function and consideration of country and currency mechanisms but it is informed by more specific work risks.
carried out by the audit committee.
As part of my duties as committee chairman, I met with In particular, the committee continually reviews the the audit partner and his director and I met a number of adequacy and effectiveness of the groups risk times with the chief financial officer and company management systems and processes.
The chief risk secretary to discuss matters of significance.
officer reports through an executive risk committee, but in line with good practice in this area, his terms of reference give him the right to report directly to the audit committee chairman on any specific matter of concern.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 31 Non-audit services The internal auditor, who reports to me as chairman of Non-audit services provided by the auditor are reviewed the audit committee, presents his annual audit by the committee to ensure that independence is programme to the committee for approval each year and maintained.
Non-audit fees are shown at note 3 to the attends committee meetings, presenting all of his reports accounts.
The committees policy is that non-audit work including managements actions in response to his should be limited to those matters where the external findings and recommendations.
The internal auditor has auditor is most appropriately placed to carry out the work, the right, should he wish, to meet separately with the unless there is a conflict of interest.
Consequently, nonaudit committee to raise any matters of concern that may audit services have historically been low.
In the year arise although he did not need to do so during the year under review, total non-audit fees were 10,000.
related principally to matters concerning changes to the group structure and the accounting treatment of External auditors assessing effectiveness group subsidiaries.
One of the most important functions of the committee is to monitor the independence and objectivity of the Audit tendering auditors, their performance and effectiveness.
The BDO LLP were first appointed as the Corporations committee achieves this by an annual formal meeting auditors on 31 October 2008.
In accordance with audit with the audit partner and director to plan that years requirements, the senior statutory auditor was rotated audit.
Part of that process requires the auditor to give the during 2013.
After due consideration, the committee committee written assessment of how the audit team continues to be satisfied about the quality, performance identifies and manages the threats to its independence, and effectiveness of the audit by BDO LLP and along with the description of the safeguards that it has in accordingly, has recommended that they be reappointed place to avoid such threats.
This vital part of the audit at the forthcoming AGM.
process also enables the committee to examine in detail the scope of the audit, ensuring that the auditors The committee has no current plans to put the audit to objectives meets the committees own expectations, tender, but is mindful of the Code provision that FTSE along with key audit and accounting matters to be 350 companies should aim to tender their audit contract considered that year.
At the conclusion of each audit, the committee receives a Significant financial issues presentation from the audit partner on the principal relating to the 2014 accounts findings.
This provides the opportunity for robust The Code requires us to describe any significant issues challenge, particularly in areas where management considered in relation to the financial statements and how judgement has been required.
The committee will also those issues were addressed.
give the auditors an opportunity, without executive management present, to comment on the quality and No new significant issues arose during the course of standard of the executives performance generally and the audit.
As reported in previous years, an area of during the audit.
Similarly, the committee will seek the consideration continues to be consideration of bad views of the executive on the effectiveness and debt provisions.
performance of the audit team.
There were no matters of concern raised during the period under review.
Management makes an estimate of a number of bad debt provisions for non-collection of fees as part of the risk During 2014, the committee obtained a report on the management and control framework.
The committee has auditors own quality control procedures and was received reports from management describing the basis satisfied that the auditors continue to have the resource for assumptions used.
and technical backup necessary to continue delivering an effective audit of the Corporation and its subsidiaries.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 32 Audit committee report continued Other issues that arose included: the risk that portfolio investments may not be beneficially owned or correctly valued: and that revenue is appropriately recognised.
The committee has received assurance on these matters from management.
The committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
Taken in its entirety, the committee was able to conclude that the financial statements themselves and the annual report as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and that conclusion was reported to the board.
Mark Bridgeman Chairman, Audit committee The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
