| 62 GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS Committed to the highest standards Our approach to good governance Transparent reporting is as much a part of good We believe a sound governance framework protects governance as our procedures and policies and we and promotes the interests of all of our stakeholders are committed to reporting on our governance as and builds the foundation for trusted relationships and clearly and effectively as possible.
Further details sound decision making.
Good corporate governance of our governance practices and our statement of is always at the forefront of what we do as a business compliance with the Code are set out in more detail and each year the Board undertakes a review of our on the following pages.
corporate governance framework to ensure that our policies and procedures remain in line with best practice.
How the Board operates The Board is accountable for the long-term success This year, we have continued to embed the revised of the company, for delivering the groups strategy delegated authority framework which was introduced and for providing leadership within a framework of last year and have formed a Corporate Governance effective and prudent controls.
This Committee is responsible for Chairman, is responsible for the leadership of the overseeing and monitoring the companys existing Board and ensuring its effectiveness and Nigel Wilson, corporate governance framework and ensuring group chief executive, is responsible for the day-to-day compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code management of the group.
The Board believes in an while promoting the highest standards of corporate open and constructive environment and the nongovernance across the company.
The Committee also executive directors are encouraged to bring effective monitors emerging corporate governance best practice.
challenge to the deliberations of the Board.
In its initial meetings, the Committee has so far spent time considering the findings and proposed actions Delegated authority framework resulting from the 2014 Board evaluation, non-executive The Board operates within a clearly defined delegated director training and development plans and future authority framework.
This framework was designed succession planning for executive directors.
to assist the Board in delivering its responsibilities, to support sound decision making processes and to enhance independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
Board experience and diversity The Board has continued to evolve during the year and we have sought to maintain a diverse Board that has an effective balance of skills, experience and personal qualities.
SKILLS EXPERIENCE PERSONAL QUALITIES DIVERSITY Our Board members There is a broad spectrum Having the right balance Our Board represents come from a wide range of experience on our Board.
of personal qualities on the diversity in many ways of backgrounds including Our Board members have Board is just as important and we seek to incorporate financial services, retail, undertaken various roles as having the right skill set, diversity into our thinking technology, investment such as chief financial as the Board is central to on the composition of the management and legal.
officer, chief risk officer, the culture of the company.
Diversity on our These skills all contribute chief executive officer, The qualities we look for Board can be demonstrated to the effectiveness of our director of strategy and in our Board members are through multiple perspectives, Board and ensure that the technology and e-commerce integrity, self-awareness, different outlooks, age, Board is able to discharge its director.
A number of our independence of gender and nationality.
Board members are mind, openness and currently executives in approachability and the other companies, which ability to perform as brings an additional a team player.
Our directors have also undertaken trustee roles and have been involved with registered charities.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS 63 There are a number of matters which are specifically Strategy reserved for the Boards approval.
These are set out in a The Board considered a schedule of material clearly defined schedule and include, amongst others, transactions at each meeting to assess whether matters relating to the groups strategic plan, risk proposed transactions are aligned with the strategic appetite and systems of internal control and corporate objectives of the group governance policies.
The decision making for those The Board debated and approved the groups five matters which are not reserved are delegated by the year Business Plan and considered a midyear Board as follows: report from the chief risk officer in respect of progress against the plan versus risk appetite to group level committees: Group Risk Committee: Audit Committee: Remuneration Committee, Leadership, talent development and employees Corporate Governance Committee and Nominations A talent and leadership update was provided to Committee.
Each Committees authority is set out the Board at which Board members reviewed the in their terms of reference: and progress that had been made in delivering key talent to the group CEO, with his authority being set out objectives during 2013 and the future focus for 2014, in a delegation schedule.
The Board discussed the results of the What Matters annual employee survey and considered the actions The group CEO then onward delegates decision making to be taken going forward in response to the results authority in the following ways: Governance to the Group Capital Committee, which considers Action was taken to implement the delegated and approves matters such as capital allocation, authority structure which was introduced in new product lines, large transactions and capital 2013.
The Board considered and approved investments, mergers and acquisitions transactions, delegation schedules of key senior management direct investment and other material group wide Consideration of the progress made against the matters that may arise: agreed actions from the 2013 Board Evaluation to the Group Corporate Responsibility and Ethics A review of the groups approach to governance Committee, which is responsible for setting the and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance groups social purpose: and Code was undertaken to his direct reports, being the CEOs managing directors of each business division.
Each individuals Stakeholders authority is set out in a delegation schedule.
The Board considered the groups relationships with various stakeholder groups including shareholders How the Board spent its time in 2014 and regulatory bodies The Board held eight scheduled meetings in 2014, The companys brokers presented investor feedback individual attendance at which is set out in the table on to the Board following the year-end results page 67.
The Boards agenda is set by the Chairman and time is allocated at each meeting to consider reports As in previous years, the Board also held a two day from the group chief executive, chief financial officer, off-site strategy event at which the Board considered the group general counsel and company secretary and the progress that had been made in delivering the groups heads of each of the following business divisions: Legal strategy, the key emerging issues facing the company in & General Retirement, Legal & General Assurance continuing to deliver the strategy and the way in which Society, Legal & General Investment Management and these should be addressed.
The Board strategy event Legal & General Capital.
These reports assist the Board provides the opportunity for more informal and less in monitoring the performance of the group as a whole.
structured dialogue covering a broad range of strategic The Board also dedicates a significant amount of time to issues.
Some of the key areas of focus for this years considering strategic and wider group issues.
Some of agenda were: the key areas of focus throughout 2014 were: Digital Direct investments Risks and capital allocation Deccumulation individual retirement solutions Organisational effectiveness and capability LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 64 GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS Committed to the highest standards Board and Committee performance and evaluations In line with previous years and to ensure continuity Each year, the Board undertakes a review of its own and comparability, the directors were asked their performance and that of its committees.
This review views on a number of topics including: provides the Board with the opportunity to reflect on its activities, the quality of its decisions and allows each Board composition, expertise and dynamics Board member to consider their own performance and Board support and processes contribution.
The Board then agrees an action plan Strategic oversight based on the findings of the review and throughout Risk management and internal control the year, the Board has continued to progress the Succession planning and human resource recommendations from the 2013 review.
A summary management of the progress made against the 2013 recommendations Priorities for change is shown in the table below.
The review concluded that the Board was effective This year, given the changes to the composition of the overall while recognising the need for improvement Board and the relatively short tenure of a number of in some areas which is set out in the table below.
non-executive directors, the Chairman determined that an internally facilitated review would be most effective Developing our people: induction and ongoing and appropriate.
This provided the opportunity to create development tailored questionnaires, focusing in particular on those The group general counsel and company secretary areas that had prompted the most feedback and supports the Chairman in providing tailored induction discussion during the previous review.
programmes for new directors and ongoing development for existing directors.
PROGRESS MADE AGAINST RECOMMENDATIONS FROM 2013 REVIEW RECOMMENDATIONS FROM 2014 REVIEW Board composition and expertise The composition of the Board has Board composition and expertise In considering future appointments, been considered and reviewed in 2014 resulting in the appointment of the Nominations Committee should seek candidates with greater three new non-executive directors who enhance the Boards expertise international experience, asset management expertise and those from through: strong technological and digital experience: extensive financial insurance backgrounds.
services experience and a customer-focused background.
Strategic oversight The Board should continue to further develop Board packs and management information Good progress has been strategic options and re-visit the progress on the discussions that took made on improvements to the management information pack and this place at the Strategy Day half way through the year.
is generally a focus for continuous improvement.
Succession planning The Board should further consider succession Overseas and off-site Board meetings The Board has undertaken plans for executive directors as part of the talent management sessions a visit to the Chicago office and visited the Cardiff office.
and should be further exposed to the succession plans for senior management and potential successors for key roles.
Strategic planning The Board held a productive two-day off-site strategy session which built on the discussions that had taken place Board dynamics The non-executives should meet more regularly with over the course of the year both inside and outside of the boardroom.
the chief executive officer in the absence of the rest of the executive in order to further facilitate open debate and challenge.
Stakeholder views The Board places great importance on understanding the views of stakeholders and during the year, Board Time management A review of the number of Board meetings should members invited representatives from the FCA and PRA to meet with be undertaken and consideration should be given to extending the time them for an open discussion.
The companys brokers have also briefed of Board meetings to allow more time for discussion on strategic matters the Board on institutional shareholder feedback following the year-end and to address the increasing regulatory agenda.
The Chairman and SID also undertook a series of meetings with the companys significant institutional shareholders.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS 65 The induction programme is designed to ensure that a new non-executive director is fully briefed on the key My induction programme areas of the business and has the information necessary has provided me with a much to allow them to make an effective contribution to deeper understanding of the the Board.
Best of On joining the Board, as well as being provided with all, it has shown me the calibre detailed briefing packs, Olaf Swantee, Carolyn Bradley and integrity of our staff.
I have and Richard Meddings were provided with individual visited several of our offices and induction plans including a series of one-to-one had the opportunity to meet meetings with executive management and other members of the senior management team.
These with staff on the ground in each briefings covered a wide range of topics including, location.
I continue to be impressed amongst other things: an introduction to the groups with the culture and commitment governance framework: the approach to risk and to doing what is right for compliance: capital management: the annual financial calendar and the financial reporting cycle: and an the customer.
overview of the investor relations strategy.
There were also a series of sessions specifically focused on Lizabeth Zlatkus, understanding each of the business areas and non-executive director operations and, where possible, visits to the different site locations were facilitated.
The Board believes strongly in the development of its directors and continuing education is an important aspect of the Boards agenda.
The following development sessions were undertaken during 2014.
MONTH ACTIVITY February Protection and reinsurance Board members were invited to participate in an internally facilitated executive business awareness session focusing on the protection and reinsurance business.
Management information pack May Board members were invited to participate in an internally facilitated executive business awareness session focusing on the content of the MI pack.
June Board visit to Chicago: LGIMA business overview The June Board meeting took place in the Chicago office and the Board undertook a deep dive on the LGIMA business focusing on the following: US Fixed Income, US Index Funds, US Solutions and US Asset Management.
July Julia Wilson site visit to our Kingswood office Julia spent a day in the Kingswood office and the visit focused on meeting with members of the finance and internal audit teams.
This provided Julia with the opportunity to better understand the structure and workings of the finance teams within the group and the role they play in the groups financial reporting process.
July Solvency II executive business awareness Board members were invited to participate in an internally facilitated executive business awareness session focusing in particular on credit risk and longevity risk.
Lizabeth Zlatkus site visit to our Kingswood office October Lizabeth spent a day in the Kingswood office meeting with members of the LGAS senior management team who briefed her on their respective business areas.
This provided Lizabeth with the opportunity to get to know the wider business better.
Board visit to Cardiff office Cardiff business overview October Board members participated in a series of training sessions with representatives from each of the business divisions focusing on the following areas: Investments: Retirement: Insurance and Corporate.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 66 GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS Committed to the highest standards Compliance with the September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code For the year ended 31 December 2014, we are pleased to report that we have complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: frc.
EFFECTIVENESS A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board B5 Information and support The Board met formally eight times during The composition of the Board is reviewed The Chairman, in conjunction with the company the year.
The Boards agenda follows an annual regularly by the Nominations Committee.
In secretary, ensures that all Board members work plan and the Board is responsible for considering the composition, the Committee is receive accurate and timely information.
setting the groups strategy and monitoring mindful of the need to maintain a well-balanced the performance of the group as a whole.
Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience, B6 Evaluation There is a clear schedule of matters reserved background and perspectives.
The Board and its committees undertook for the Board and schedules of delegation, an internal evaluation during 2014.
The last as further described on pages 62 and 63.
B2 Appointments to the Board externally facilitated evaluation was in 2012.
The appointment of new directors to the Board Details of the 2014 evaluation can be found A2 Division of responsibilities is led by the Nominations Committee.
John Stewart, the Chairman, is responsible details of the appointments undertaken during for leading the Board while Nigel Wilson, group the year and succession planning can be found B7 Re-election chief executive, is responsible for the day-to-day on pages 68 to 69.
All directors were subject to shareholder management of the company within the strategy election or re-election at the 2014 AGM, set by the Board.
The role profiles for both B3 Commitment as will be the case at the 2015 AGM.
the Chairman and group chief executive are Non-executive directors are advised of the reviewed on an annual basis.
time commitment expected from them on appointment.
At times, this time commitment A3 The Chairman may go beyond that set out in the letter The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, of appointment and is therefore reviewed manages the meeting timetable and facilitates regularly.
External commitments, which open and constructive dialogue during the may impact existing time commitments, meetings.
must be agreed with the Chairman.
A4 Non-executive directors B4 Development The Chairman encourages an open and All new directors are invited to participate constructive dialogue in the boardroom and the in a tailored and comprehensive induction contributions made by the non-executives are programme.
The Board runs a programme highly valued.
The Chairman is available to the of ongoing development sessions, further non-executives and there are regular meetings detail of which is set out on page 65. in the absence of the executive directors.
The Nominations Committee report can be found on pages 68 and 69.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS 67 Board and committee meetings attendance Corporate Appointment Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Governance Director Date Board 8 Committee 5 Committee 4 Committee 8 Committee 6 Committee 1 J Stewart 1 January 2010 8 4 1 M J Gregory 28 January 2009 8 2 R Markham 4 October 2006 8 4 8 2 1 J B Pollock 11 December 2003 8 S Popham 1 July 2011 8 4 7 6 1 M Fairey 1 May 2011 1 0 0 5 L Tomlinson 1 May 2013 8 5 4 8 6 J Wilson 9 November 2011 8 5 4 6 N D Wilson 1 September 2009 8 M Zinkula 18 September 2012 8 3 L Zlatkus 1 December 2013 8 4 3 6 O Swantee 1 August 2014 2 1 1 R Meddings 1 December 2014 1 1 1 1 C Bradley 8 December 2014 1 0 1 1.
R etired with effect from 21 May 2014.
R Markham joined the Group Risk Committee on 15 October 2014 and attended two out of a possible two meetings.
L Zlatkus joined the Audit Committee on 1 May 2014 and attended four out of a possible four meetings.
EFFECTIVENESS C. ACCOUNTABILITY D. REMUNERATION E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS C1 Financial and business reporting D1 The level and components of remuneration E1 Dialogue with shareholders The strategic report can be located on pages The Remuneration Committee is responsible The Board seeks to actively engage with 1 to 55, and this sets out the performance for setting the groups remuneration policy.
both institutional and retail shareholders of the company, the business model, strategy The company aims to reward employees fairly and a number of meetings were held in 2014. and the risks and uncertainties relating to the and our remuneration philosophy seeks to The chairman seeks to ensure that the Board companys future prospects.
link reward to performance, thereby aligning are kept appraised of shareholder views.
the interests of the directors and shareholders.
C2 Risk management and internal control The work of the Committee is set out on E2 Constructive use of the AGM The Board sets the companys risk appetite pages 76 and 77.
The AGM provides the Board with an and annually reviews the effectiveness of the important opportunity to meet with companys risk management and internal D2 Procedure shareholders, in particular retail control systems.
The activities of the Audit and The Remuneration Committee is responsible shareholders, who are invited to meet Group Risk Committees, which assist the Board for setting the remuneration for all executive with the Board following the formal with its responsibilities in relation to risk setting directors.
Details of the composition and the business of the meeting.
and management, are set out on pages 70 to 75. work of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report C3 Audit Committee and auditors on pages 76 and 77.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee which comprises four independent nonexecutives.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the groups financial reporting processes, internal control and risk management framework and the work undertaken by the external auditor.
Regular updates are provided to the Group Board by the committee chair.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
