| 70 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee report All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors and I am pleased to report that the Board and Committees own evaluations during the year found that the Committee has the knowledge and skills to effectively fulfil its responsibilities and that its performance during the year was effective.
Membership of the Committee is set out in the table below.
Members Julia Wilson Committee member since 9 November 2011, Chair since 22 May 2013 Lindsay Tomlinson Committee member since 31 July 2013 Lizabeth Zlatkus Committee member since 1 May 2014 Olaf Swantee Committee member since 8 December 2014 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the Letter from the Chairman group Chairman, group chief executive, group chief Dear Shareholder financial officer, group chief risk officer, group financial controller, group chief internal auditor, UK actuary and I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report representatives of the external auditor, for the year ended 31 December 2014.
focuses on the work of the Committee during 2014 including the significant accounting issues considered During 2014, the Committee met five times and our by the Committee which are set out on page 72. time was split between interim and year-end financial reporting, monitoring and reviewing internal control The Committee is a senior Board committee and has procedures and reviewing the effectiveness and work third line governance responsibilities which include the of both the internal and external audit functions.
Another oversight of financial disclosures and corporate major focus of the Committee this year has been the reporting.
The primary responsibility of the Committee new disclosures in relation to economic capital and the is to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities Committee has worked closely with the Group Risk with regards to monitoring the integrity of the groups Committee in reviewing the risk-based capital model financial statements, the effectiveness of the internal and the proposed disclosure.
control including financial control framework and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external The information on the following pages sets out in detail auditors.
As a Committee, we are also responsible for the activities of the Committee over the course of the advising the Board on whether the annual report and year and I trust that you will find this report useful in accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understanding our work.
understandable and these considerations have been factored in to our year-end processes.
There have been a number of changes to the Committees composition during the year with the retirement of Mike Fairey and the appointments of Olaf Swantee and Liz Zlatkus adding important operational and financial experience.
Maintaining Julia Wilson a strong degree of financial literacy is a key Chairman consideration when appointing members.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 71 The work of the Committee during 2014 The Committee recommended to the Board that, The Committee has an annual work plan aligned when taken as a whole, the 2014 annual report and with the financial reporting cycle of the company.
accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, and The Committees activities fall into three principal provides the information necessary for shareholders areas: accounting and financial reporting: internal to assess the companys performance, business model control management: and external audit and the and strategy.
A major focus for the Committee this year has also been Accounting and financial reporting the companys new disclosures in relation to economic The Committee reviews the half year and annual capital.
The Committee has worked closely with the financial statement and the significant financial Group Risk Committee in reviewing the key assumptions reporting judgements.
The significant accounting issues and methodologies of the risk based capital model as considered in relation to the 2014 financial statements well as the proposed disclosures.
During the year, the Committee has also kept abreast In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, the of significant and emerging accounting developments, Committee reviews the disclosures to be made in in particular the implementation of new IFRS accounting relation to internal control and risk management and standards from 1 January 2014 and the work being principal risks and uncertainties.
An important focus undertaken by the International Accounting Standards of the Committee in 2014 was assisting the Board in Board on the implementation of a new IFRS standard ensuring that the annual report and accounts, taken as a on accounting for insurance contracts.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considered the corporate governance provisions which require the Board to make this statement on the report, together with information on the processes already in place or being introduced to support the statement to be made.
We have formalised our existing year-end governance processes and procedures to assist the Committee in assessing whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable FBU and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
This includes ensuring that all of those involved in the preparation of our annual report and accounts have been appropriately trained and fully briefed on the FBU requirements: internal legal verification of all factual statements, together with legal verification of descriptions used within the narrative: regular engagement and feedback with senior management on proposed content and changes and feedback from external advisors corporate reporting specialists, remuneration and strategic reporting advisors, external auditors to enhance the quality of our reporting.
It also included a review of the use of non-GAAP measures and the use and definition of operating profit.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 72 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee report Significant accounting issues The Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the 2014 financial statements: The valuation interest rate is the discount rate at which annuity The Committee closely monitored the matters that change the valuation payments are discounted to the present date.
The financial results interest rates and in particular: are sensitive to changes in the valuation interest rate.
Investment data used to calculate the yield on the assets backing the The longevity assumptions estimate how long policyholders insurance liabilities: receiving annuity payments will live.
The financial results are Credit default assumptions: and sensitive to the choice of, and changes in, the longevity assumptions.
The methodology used to model the asset cash flows to calculate the internal rate of return The Committee is concerned to ensure that the investment data used for modelling insurance liabilities is correct, that credit default assumptions are appropriate and that the assumptions made in setting the credit default allowance appropriately represent the groups exposures and current market conditions.
The Committee studied the results of the default provision methodology by asset type and concluded that the total provision was appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed how the longevity assumptions are calculated, including the use of internal experience analyses and judgement, and the impact of future improvements to mortality for example, due to expected medical advances estimates using external industry studies and guidance in the UK.
The groups investment portfolio includes commercial loans, The Committee is concerned to ensure that the valuation process for CDOs and OTC derivatives.
These are significant these investments is robust and that appropriate controls are in place in size and changes in estimates could result in material changes to mitigate the risk that valuations are performed incorrectly.
This included consideration being given to the OTC derivatives front office controls approval and authorisation processes.
The groups investment portfolio also includes more complex The Committee has considered the processes of the group in the instruments, such as investment property, where there is no direct valuation of complex investments.
In particular, the Committee has price from an active market and the valuation by its nature includes reviewed the work of internal and external audit on the control judgement.
Further, property valuations are generally performed environment surrounding the valuation of investment property and less frequently than for other classes of asset and some of the monitored the delivery of process improvements.
groups property investment transactions are unique in terms of structure and therefore can require complex accounting treatment.
Internal control framework than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and The Committee considers control environment issues, not absolute assurance against material loss.
root causes and managements responses and follow up activities.
It is assisted by the work of both internal audit During 2014, the Committee was assisted in its activities and the external auditor.
by regular reports from the groups internal audit function on their audits and assessment of the control In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, the environment.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness Committee assists the Board in ensuring the group of the groups internal audit function, including internal operates within a framework of prudent and effective audit resources, plans and performance as well as how controls that allows risk to be identified, assessed and the function interacts with management.
Implementation and maintenance of the the Committee considers the alignment of the internal internal control systems are the responsibility of the audit plan with the companys key risks.
executive directors and senior management.
Where failings or weaknesses have been identified, actions A significant focus during 2014 has been the have been taken to remedy these.
The groups control implementation of changes in response to the high policies and procedures, which are in accordance with standards set by the Chartered Institute of Internal Turnbull Guidance, have been in place during 2014 and Auditors CIIA Guidance for Internal Audit in the up to the date this report was approved.
The groups Financial Services sector the CIIA Code issued in system of internal control is designed to manage rather July 2013.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 73 The Committee oversaw the recruitment of a new The Committee is cognisant of the requirements chief internal auditor, and reviewed the target operating governing the appointment of external auditors, notably model for the companys internal audit function and the requirements of the Competition Commission and recommendations for developing the function towards European legislation in relation to the mandatory the CIIA Codes standards to support ongoing delivery re-tendering of audit services every 10 years, together of effective internal audit assurance.
with the mandatory firm rotation proposals from the European Commission.
The Committee also received and considered reports from the external auditors on their assessment of the  LLP has been our external control environment as well as reports from senior auditors for a number of years.
The audit was last management on how they are responding to internal tendered in full in 2006 with a partial re-tender process control recommendations made by internal audit and in 2009.
The current intention of the Committee is to the external auditors.
carry out a review at an appropriate time between now and 2017 in line with the new audit tender requirements.
The internal control and risk management systems cover the companys financial reporting process and the There are no contractual obligations which restrict the groups process for preparation of consolidated financial Committees choice of external auditor.
For 2014, the Board was able to conclude, with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal In 2014, the group spent 1.6 million on non-audit control and risk management systems were maintained services provided by  LLP.
Further details can be found in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
This represents External auditors 28.6% of the total audit fee for 2014.
Each year, the Committee reviews the external auditors audit plan to ensure it aligns with the Committees view Analysis of current and prior-year spend on audit, of the significant risk areas of financial misstatement.
other assurance and non-assurance services: The Committee receives regular reports from the 2014 2013 2012 external auditor on audit findings and significant Audit and related 5.6 5.6 4.6 accounting issues.
Other assurance 0.9 0.1 1.8 Non-assurance 0.7 1.3 1.1 The Committee judges the external auditor on the Total 7.2 7.0 7.5 quality of their audit findings, managements response and stakeholder feedback.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external auditors against the The groups policy requires that all services with an following criteria: anticipated cost in excess of a specified amount are subject to a full competitive tender involving at least two Provision of timely and accurate industry specific other alternate parties in addition to the external auditor.
and technical knowledge If the external auditor is selected following the tender Maintaining a professional and open dialogue with process, the Committee is responsible for approving the the Committee Chairman and members at all times external auditors fees on the engagement.
For services Delivery of an efficient audit and the ability to meet with an anticipated cost below the specified amount, objectives within the agreed time frames the group chief financial officer has authority to approve Provision of sufficient resource and high quality the engagement.
The external auditor and management and consistent advice at all times report regularly to the Committee on the nature and fees relating to non-audit services provided under The Chairman meets regularly with the external auditor this authority.
throughout the course of the year.
In order to maintain the objectivity of the external The Committee reviews and approves the terms audit process, the Committee supports the rotation of engagement of the external auditor and monitors programme for audit engagement partners who are the independence of the external auditor including required to rotate every five years.
The current audit overseeing, and in certain circumstances approving, the partner commenced his engagement in 2013. engagement of the external auditor for non-audit work.
The Committee continues to consider  LLP to be the appropriate audit firm for the company taking into consideration their audit effectiveness and the audit needs of the group.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
