Strategic report Relationships and responsibility Our approach to responsible business We have an effective top-to-bottom governance structure, providing an environment in which colleagues are encouraged and supported to do We believe we can make the right thing and work responsibly.
This governance structure starts with our Group Board and cascades to every part of our business via our our greatest contribution to Group Executive Committee, Responsible Business Committee, and colleagues across the Group.
All colleagues are accountable for doing business responsibly, which is integral to the way we recruit, develop, society and stakeholders assess, promote and reward them from the Chief Executive to the newest branch trainee.
by helping Britain prosper, The Responsible Business Committee is chaired by Non-Executive Director Sara Weller and attended by senior leaders from every part and that means serving of the business including a number of Group Executive Committee members.
The Committee oversees responsible business issues as well as reaching out to external stakeholders to understand their perspective the financial needs of then bringing this understanding back into the Group.
An independent Stakeholder Panel adds extra strength to our UK households, businesses governance structure and the quality of our reporting.
You can read the Panels independent statement online.
and communities in a Our focus on doing business responsibly is recognised by our continued presence in the FTSE4Good socially responsible investment index, our responsible and ethical way.
position in the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project and our platinum status in the Business in the Community CR Index.
Material issues Our approach As part of our annual Responsible Business reporting we have conducted Operating sustainably and responsibly is integral to our business model a comprehensive process to identify and prioritise the material issues that and strategy.
At the heart of our approach are our three Group Values matter most to our stakeholders.
More information on this process can be putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference found in our detailed Materiality Report online.
Our Codes of Responsibility define the behaviours required to live up to our Values as a business, as individual colleagues or as suppliers.
TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Our Values and Codes of Responsibility provide points of reference as If we want to rebuild trust in our bank, then we must treat we work to become the best bank for customers through our low risk, customers fairly, putting their wellbeing at the heart of every UK focused retail and commercial business model.
decision we make and every action we take Governance We have a well-defined, robust Risk Management Framework and a number of Group Policies relating to responsible business.
Our Group Ethics and Responsible Business Policy is underpinned by our Codes of BEING HONEST AND TRANSPARENT Responsibility which outline our adherence to the principles of the United We must do the right thing for customers when it comes to Nations declaration on Human Rights and support for the UN Guiding dealing with, and learning from, the mistakes of the past Principles on Business and Human Rights.
We also adhere to the International Labour Organisation Fundamental Conventions.
Our policies and procedures support colleagues working in our relationship management and risk teams in understanding how to approach, assess and manage social, environmental and ethical risks.
RESPONSIBLE LENDING FOR ALL CUSTOMERS We are signatories to the Equator Principles, which provide a framework We are focused on lending responsibly to all customers, including for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social Britains homebuyers and businesses risk in project finance transactions.
We recognise the importance of climate change, biodiversity and human rights.
We believe that we should avoid the negative impacts on ecosystems, communities and the environment but where impacts are unavoidable they must be appropriately minimised, mitigated or offset.
BUILDING A MORE RESPONSIBLE CULTURE Our Code of Business Responsibility states that we do not finance any We are continuing to change our culture to make sure that all activities prohibited by international conventions supported by the colleagues are empowered, inspired and incentivised to do the UK government.
For example, the Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions right thing for customers and the Ottawa Treaty on Anti-Personnel Landmines.
Consequently, we will not enter into or will exit from credit or investment relationships with businesses believed to be in breach of these conventions.
You can read about our approach to managing environmental risk, our credit and investment activity and the Equator Principles in the Responsible Read more about material issues on page 26 Business section of our corporate website.
or see our Responsible Business Review at 26 www.
com RB 22 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 How it all fits together Operating sustainably and responsibly is integral to our business model and strategy.
We aim to make it a day-to-day reality by ensuring that we do business in line with our Group Values, Codes of Responsibility and Group Policies.
Together with our Boardroom to Branch governance system, these elements comprise a robust, all-encompassing Responsible Business Framework.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS FRAMEWORK Business Model Helping Britain Group Values Codes and Policies Governance and Strategy Prosper Plan Our business model Our Group Values Our Codes of Our Governance The Helping Britain positions us as a low cost, underpin everything Responsibility ensure that framework enables Prosper Plan sets out low risk, customer focused we do.
They guide how we operate responsibly strategic, accountable public commitments UK retail and commercial we work and define as a business and as and responsible decision to help Britains bank, with a distinctive the standards we set individuals.
Our Policies making by all colleagues.
households, businesses multi-brand, multi-channel everyday.
They are: address the primary and communities.
The Group Board, Group offer.
By putting customers areas of risk we face Putting customers first Executive Committee It focuses on: at the heart of everything and support a consistent Making a difference and Responsible Helping homebuyers we do and operating approach to behaviour together Business Committee Helping people plan for sustainably and responsibly, and decision making.
Keeping it simple play key roles in ensuring later life we believe we will help As such, they are an good governance and Championing financial Britain prosper and create important part of our defining our responsible inclusion value for our shareholders.
Group Risk Management business objectives.
Our Lending to businesses Framework.
Our strategy sets out the Responsible Business Providing expert ways in which we can Our pillars of team supports colleagues training and mentoring become the best bank responsible business: across the Group in for businesses and for customers.
As described fulfilling our responsible Put customers at the individuals on page 20, it sets three business agenda.
heart of our business Investing in communities priorities up to 2017: Work responsibly to help them thrive creating the best customer with our external Celebrating diversity experience: becoming stakeholders simpler and more Aim to be a great efficient: and delivering company to work for sustainable growth.
Invest in communities to help them prosper and grow Work continually to reduce environmental impacts BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 23 Strategic report Relationships and responsibility continued Helping Britain Prosper Plan 2014 2014 HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER PLAN 2014 People in Britain are facing METRICS PERFORMANCE TARGET INDICATOR 1.1 Number of first-time buyers supported through delivering the most Well help more customers get 89,000 80,000 some big issues today.
comprehensive mortgage proposition in the UK mortgage market on the housing ladder and more 1 1.2 Share proportion of new-build mortgages provided for first-time buyers, customers climb up it 1 in 4 1 in 4 Were using our influence second steppers and private rented 2.1 Number of customers we help to plan for later life through company 1.41m 1.1m Well help our customers pension schemes cumulative cumulative and expertise to help plan and save for later life 2 2.2 Number of customers we help post-retirement through providing a continuing 596,172 0.55m annuity income cumulative cumulative them tackle these issues 3.1 Amount of additional funding provided to support Credit Unions per year 1m 1m Well take a lead in financial through our Helping inclusion to enable all individuals 3 3.2 Share of social banking accounts we will support 29% 1 in 4 to access, and benefit from, the Britain Prosper Plan.
3.3 Number of community support workers accredited to deliver financial products and services they need to 2,035 1,830 1 education on the front line cumulative cumulative make the most of their money 3.4 Maintain a category gold award with the Business Disability Forum BDF Playing an active role in helping people address some of the big social 2 by achieving a high score across the ten areas that lead to a disability 98% 90% score and economic issues they face today sows the seeds of a better future for confident organisation us all.
We recognise that when the customers and communities we serve prosper, then we do too.
1bn 1.27bn Well help businesses to start up 4.1 Increased amount of net lending to SMEs on an annual basis total cumulative 31bn 31bn The Helping Britain Prosper Plan complements our ambition to become and scale up, and we will procure 4 the best bank for households, businesses and communities.
It is 99,133 responsibly fundamental in rebuilding trust with those we serve and also to make 4.2 Number of start-up businesses we will help to get off the ground 100k 107k including TSB Lloyds Banking Group a business that colleagues are proud to work for.
4.3 Increased amount of new lending provided to support UK manufacturing 1bn 1bn 2014 overview businesses per year Reviewing the Plan as a whole, its clear that it has achieved a first for 4.4 Number of entrepreneurs supported through Lloyds Bank and Bank 756 750 the Group and for the UK banking sector: a framework that we can use to of Scotland Social Entrepreneurs programmes cumulative cumulative demonstrate to colleagues and external stakeholders the positive impact that our operations have across our seven commitments.
We set some 95% 4.5 % of supplier invoices paid within 30 days 95% challenging targets in the Plan to push ourselves, and we know we need 30 days to do more work to meet some commitments in the future.
The areas 5.1 Number of colleagues trained to mentor SMEs and social entrepreneurs Well help businesses and we need to focus on are: supporting colleagues: apprenticeships: and 1,340 1,000 through the Business Finance Taskforce accredited scheme and the Lloyds continuing to pay our suppliers on time.
individuals succeed with expert cumulative cumulative 5 Bank and Bank of Scotland Social Entrepreneurs programme mentoring and training Looking ahead 5.2 Number of new Lloyds Banking Group Apprenticeship positions created with 2,210 2,450 Weve always intended to develop the Plan in line with the next phase permanent employment cumulative cumulative of our Group Strategy, announced in 2014, and any relevant market 5.3 % of Lloyds Banking Group Apprenticeships taken up by external candidates changes.
We have updated the Plan for 2015 to keep it relevant to N A N A N A 3 from the UKs most disadvantaged areas our business and our stakeholders.
It now includes 28 metrics with updated targets for 2015 and beyond including new metrics focused on: 5.4 Undergraduates from low income families supported by the Lloyds 360 360 supporting smaller house builders projects: digital skills: international Scholars programme cumulative cumulative trade: and infrastructure and investment.
You can read more about our 5.5 % of Lloyds Scholars from low income families who have secured a job within 2014 performance and new 2015 metrics in our Helping Britain Prosper 100% 90% 4 six months of graduating from University Plan Update online.
6.1 Number of paid volunteer hours used by colleagues to support 949,600 800,000 Well be the banking Group that KEY community projects cumulative cumulative brings communities closer together ACHIEVED 6 to help them thrive 6.2 Number of community organisations supported by our volunteers or funding 8,690 6,500 PARTIALLY ACHIEVED 6.3 donated to the Banks Foundations to help tackle disadvantage 16.5m 16.5m NOT ACHIEVED 1 6.4 raised by colleagues for our Charity of the Year including Matched Giving Through Money for Lifes Teach Others and Money Mentors programmes.
3.9m 1.7m 2 to support those in need in our communities Includes Commitment: Know-how: Adjustments: Recruitment: Retention: Products & Services: Suppliers and Partners: Communication: Premises: Information 5 and Communication Technology.
7.1 % of senior roles to be held by women 29% 29% Well better represent the diversity 3 Reporting against this metric will commence in 2015 when the apprenticeship recruitment of our customer base and our 7.2 We will consistently increase the engagement levels of ethnic minority strategy and measurement approach advised in 2014 are fully embedded.
7 64 66 4 communities at all levels of the Group Colleague Survey Score Colleague Survey Score This % is based on the number of Scholars who are actively seeking employment each year colleagues in all roles out of the cumulative 720 who will have been supported by 2017.
5 7.3 We will consistently increase the engagement levels of disabled colleagues 52 55 Senior roles refers to top 8,000 individuals.
in all roles Colleague Survey Score Colleague Survey Score Read more about our 7.4 We will consistently increase the engagement levels of lesbian, gay, bisexual and 52 60 Helping Britain Prosper Plan at Colleague Survey Score Colleague Survey Score www.
com prosperplan transgender colleagues in all roles 24 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2014 2014 HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER PLAN 2014 METRICS PERFORMANCE TARGET INDICATOR 1.1 Number of first-time buyers supported through delivering the most Well help more customers get 89,000 80,000 comprehensive mortgage proposition in the UK mortgage market on the housing ladder and more 1 1.2 Share proportion of new-build mortgages provided for first-time buyers, customers climb up it 1 in 4 1 in 4 second steppers and private rented 2.1 Number of customers we help to plan for later life through company 1.41m 1.1m Well help our customers pension schemes cumulative cumulative plan and save for later life 2 2.2 Number of customers we help post-retirement through providing a continuing 596,172 0.55m annuity income cumulative cumulative 3.1 Amount of additional funding provided to support Credit Unions per year 1m 1m Well take a lead in financial inclusion to enable all individuals 3 3.2 Share of social banking accounts we will support 29% 1 in 4 to access, and benefit from, the 3.3 Number of community support workers accredited to deliver financial products and services they need to 2,035 1,830 1 education on the front line cumulative cumulative make the most of their money 3.4 Maintain a category gold award with the Business Disability Forum BDF 2 by achieving a high score across the ten areas that lead to a disability 98% 90% score confident organisation 1bn 1.27bn Well help businesses to start up 4.1 Increased amount of net lending to SMEs on an annual basis total cumulative 31bn 31bn and scale up, and we will procure 4 99,133 responsibly 4.2 Number of start-up businesses we will help to get off the ground 100k 107k including TSB 4.3 Increased amount of new lending provided to support UK manufacturing 1bn 1bn businesses per year 4.4 Number of entrepreneurs supported through Lloyds Bank and Bank 756 750 of Scotland Social Entrepreneurs programmes cumulative cumulative 95% 4.5 % of supplier invoices paid within 30 days 95% 30 days 5.1 Number of colleagues trained to mentor SMEs and social entrepreneurs Well help businesses and 1,340 1,000 through the Business Finance Taskforce accredited scheme and the Lloyds individuals succeed with expert cumulative cumulative 5 Bank and Bank of Scotland Social Entrepreneurs programme mentoring and training 5.2 Number of new Lloyds Banking Group Apprenticeship positions created with 2,210 2,450 permanent employment cumulative cumulative 5.3 % of Lloyds Banking Group Apprenticeships taken up by external candidates N A N A N A 3 from the UKs most disadvantaged areas 5.4 Undergraduates from low income families supported by the Lloyds 360 360 Scholars programme cumulative cumulative 5.5 % of Lloyds Scholars from low income families who have secured a job within 100% 90% 4 six months of graduating from University 6.1 Number of paid volunteer hours used by colleagues to support 949,600 800,000 Well be the banking Group that community projects cumulative cumulative brings communities closer together 6 to help them thrive 6.2 Number of community organisations supported by our volunteers or funding 8,690 6,500 6.3 donated to the Banks Foundations to help tackle disadvantage 16.5m 16.5m 6.4 raised by colleagues for our Charity of the Year including Matched Giving 3.9m 1.7m to support those in need in our communities 5 7.1 % of senior roles to be held by women 29% 29% Well better represent the diversity of our customer base and our 7.2 We will consistently increase the engagement levels of ethnic minority 7 64 66 communities at all levels of the Group Colleague Survey Score Colleague Survey Score colleagues in all roles 7.3 We will consistently increase the engagement levels of disabled colleagues 52 55 in all roles Colleague Survey Score Colleague Survey Score 7.4 We will consistently increase the engagement levels of lesbian, gay, bisexual and 52 60 Colleague Survey Score Colleague Survey Score transgender colleagues in all roles BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 25 Strategic report Relationships and responsibility continued Material issues TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Fairer products Customer complaints We want to do the right thing in every single customer interaction.
Were Providing an excellent service and getting it right for customers first making sure this happens in many different ways, including more than time is the best way to prevent complaints.
Excluding legacy complaints 200 different improvements for customers, including product-specific relating to PPI, the overall number of customer complaints we receive enhancements, such as better user tools on our digital services and has fallen by 12 per cent compared with 2013 volumes.
We also received greater flexibility for customers to switch between loan and saving fewer banking complaints per 1,000 accounts than our major peers products in search of the best option.
Were determined to reduce complaint volumes even further in future by learning from and acting on customers feedback.
Improving accessibility We are working hard to make continuous improvements to our evolving Tackling financial crime, bribery and corruption multi-channel offer for all customers.
We have made several important We can ensure optimum security levels for customers because we improvements for customers with disabilities or in ill-health, including those consistently invest in the best technologies, processes and training for with dementia.
We have launched a new branch disability toolkit across all colleagues.
Weve invested 157 million since 2011 to improve IT security, our brands, advising colleagues on best practice and weve installed more with a focus on state-of-the-art control and protection technologies.
talking ATMs in our branches for visually impaired customers.
We comply rigorously and consistently with all anti-bribery legislation and regulation wherever we operate, by adopting appropriate procedures Developing our digital channels and controls to counter the risk of bribery.
Our Anti-Bribery Policy applies More than 10 million customers now use our digital banking services.
to all Directors and employees and those acting on the Groups behalf.
We are the biggest mobile bank in the UK with over 5 million customers All colleagues complete annual anti-bribery training and are encouraged using their mobile phone to bank with us.
We expect these figures to to report instances of suspected bribery via the Whistleblowing service.
We want to make digital banking easier and personal During 2014, the Group was invited to apply, and was subsequently for all our customers.
We have also made it possible for digital banking approved, for membership of Transparency International UKs Business customers to open accounts, swap mortgage products, move saving Integrity Forum.
funds and calculate the benefits of making overpayments on mortgages and loans.
DIGITAL INVESTMENT CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS Lloyds Bank 1.9 Halifax 1.1 Amount invested in Bank of Scotland 1.2 digital over the last 1.5 750m three years Banking complaints per 1,000 accounts, excluding PPI BEING HONEST AND TRANSPARENT Tax contributions Addressing and learning from past mistakes We do not interpret tax laws in ways that we believe are contrary to We must do the right thing for customers when it comes to dealing with, and their intention: and we do not promote tax avoidance products to our learning from, the mistakes of the past.
We must respond fairly, honestly and customers.
We comply with the HMRC Code of Practice on Taxation transparently to any concerns our stakeholders may have about our plans for for Banks and the Confederation of British Industrys statement of tax the future.
We have publicly acknowledged our past mistakes, many of which principles.
The tax system covering our activities is complex and wide were endemic to our industry, and committed to resolve them.
Because of this, our decisions and actions regarding tax are the first UK retail bank to offer customers PPI mis-selling compensation.
based on a considered assessment of long-term costs and risks, including their impact on our relationship with stakeholders and our reputation Branch access with customers.
The Groups approach to tax is governed by a Group In our strategy update in October 2014 we confirmed that, alongside the Board approved tax policy and strategy, which has been discussed digitisation of our business, branches will continue to play an important with HMRC.
role in our multi-channel approach to meeting customer needs.
To ensure our approach reflects customers changing behaviours, we stated that we intend to invest 1 billion in digital channels and that we will maintain or grow our share of branches over the next three years.
TAX PAID 2.1 billion collected on behalf of the Read more about these issues in our 1.7bn government Responsible Business Review online at www.
com RB In 2014 26 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 RESPONSIBLE LENDING FOR ALL CUSTOMERS Homebuyers Financial inclusion and education We made public commitments to lend 10 billion to 80,000 first-time As a bank that is committed to helping Britain prosper, we want to buyers in 2014.
We fulfilled both in November 2014, ahead of schedule.
In do more to champion financial inclusion, by focusing on five themes: total, we advanced 11.9 billion in new mortgage lending to over 89,000 accessible products and services that meet customers needs: improving first-time buyers this year a 23 per cent and 12 per cent improvement, peoples capability and confidence: working in partnership: investing in respectively, on 2013.
We provided 1 in 4 of all new first-time buyer financial education: and supporting customers in financial difficulty that mortgage loans completed in the UK in 2014. might be excluded from financial services.
For many customers, helping them to open a basic bank account is Business and SMEs the first step away from financial exclusion and into better money This year we have increased lending to SMEs by 5 per cent compared management.
In 2014, we provided 269,000 new basic bank accounts and with 2013.
We have also focused more attention on start-up businesses, also helped 126,000 customers upgrade from basic to more mainstream with a 2014 Helping Britain Prosper Plan commitment to help 100,000 products.
You can read more about financial inclusion and financial start-ups this year.
We are pleased to say that we beat this target, helping education online.
107,000 start-ups by the end of the year.
HOME OWNERSHIP BUSINESS START-UPS 11.9bn 107,000 New mortgage lending to first-time buyers Number of start-ups helped BUILDING A MORE RESPONSIBLE CULTURE Embedding responsible business Engaging colleagues We are continuing to change our culture to make sure that all colleagues We have regular dialogue with colleagues to get a picture of how they are empowered, inspired and incentivised to do the right thing for are feeling and keep them informed of changes to our business and our customers.
In 2012, we launched our Code of Business Responsibility financial performance.
We are committed to providing colleagues with and Code of Personal Responsibility, setting out behaviours consistent comprehensive coverage of the economic and financial issues affecting with our Group Values.
Since then, weve worked hard to embed the the Group.
Information is provided through various channels and Values and Codes across our Group ensuring that 95 per cent of views are represented through regular dialogue and consultation with colleagues completed mandatory training on the Codes in 2014. the Unions.
We offer share schemes to colleagues to encourage their financial involvement.
Rewarding and remunerating colleagues In 2014, our annual Colleague Survey achieved its highest response From 2015 onwards, we have made the decision to remove the last of rate to date, with 85 per cent of colleagues participating compared the sales targets in our Retail customer-facing roles and focus solely on to 76 per cent in 2013.
The Employee Engagement Index EEI and performance metrics based on customers, risk and people.
This will the Performance Excellence Index PEI measure individual motivation help us to do the right thing for customers and rebuild colleagues and how strongly colleagues believe we are committed to improving pride in, and sense of commitment to, our Group.
The Line Manager Index LMI shows how Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM in our colleagues feel about their line managers.
The Policy provides a framework to support robust governance A 75 per cent PEI score down 1 percentage point compared with 2013 in line with the Groups risk appetite and aligned with the Groups but 11 percentage points above the UK norm.
business strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests, as well as A 60 per cent EEI score down 4 per cent from 2013 and 2 points below the consideration of our Codes of Responsibility and the Helping Britain the UK norm.
An 81 per cent LMI score the same as 2013 14 percentage points above the UK norm.
PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY Number of colleagues achieving the Foundation Standard for Professional Percentage taking part Bankers in 2014 in colleague survey 42,000 85% BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 27 Strategic report Relationships and responsibility continued Doing business responsibly in the future, as we work to build a culture in which all colleagues can be themselves at work and progress solely on the basis of merit.
For us, best bank means We always aim to appoint the best person available into any role, but also to attract talented people from diverse backgrounds and to be unbiased doing business honestly in the way we assess, select, appoint and promote them.
We encourage job applications from those with a disability and run a work experience and ethically, in ways that programme with Remploy to support people with disabilities wanting to enter the workplace.
We offer a range of programmes to support disabled colleagues including the workplace adjustment programme, benefit our customers, which provides physical and non-physical adjustments to support colleagues in their roles.
Since 2002, 1,300 colleagues have participated in and benefited from our positive action career development and colleagues, communities, training programmes for disabled colleagues.
2013 2014 Restated other stakeholders and Number Number Board members Male 10 8 the environment.
Female 3 3 1 Senior managers Male 5,644 6,138 COMMUNITY Female 2,204 2,353 Through our high street brands, were an integral part of communities 1 across Britain.
We believe we can make our greatest contribution to Colleagues Male 35,255 39,955 society by helping Britains communities to prosper.
Female 47,728 56,167 Community investment highlights 1 Colleague scope of reporting: UK payroll headcount includes established and fixed term 16.5 million donated to the Lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland contract colleagues.
Excludes parental leavers, Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temp, agency and internationals.
Foundations: 2013 6.5 million raised since 2013 for our Charity of the year, the Alzheimers 2014 Restated % % Society and Alzheimer Scotland against our 4 million target: 1,632 grants to community groups through our Community Fund: Gender: 37,847 colleagues volunteered through our Day to Make a Difference 2 Percentage of colleagues who are female 58.6% 58.7% programme: 2 Female managers 45.4% 45.1% 4.83 million local people brought together through The Big Lunch, of which Halifax is a partner: 2 Female senior managers 29.3% 28.5% 2,607 nominations for the Halifax Giving Extra Awards: Disability: 881 people trained through Money for Life, bringing the total to 2,035 since 2009: Percentage of colleagues who disclose they have a disability 1.3% 1.4% 120 young people joined our Lloyds Scholars programme: 297 social entrepreneurs supported through our Social Entrepreneurs Ethnic background: programme: and Percentage of colleagues from an ethnic The equivalent of 18 full time colleagues working as Business minority 6.8% 6.4% Connectors helping local businesses, bringing the total to 42 since 2012.
Ethnic minority managers 6.2% 5.8% Children in Need Ethnic minority senior managers 3.5% 2.9% Our new Charity of the Year partnership for 2015 and 2016 is with BBC Children in Need, who share the same goal as the Group in supporting Sexual orientation: communities across the UK.
Our 2015 colleague fundraising target is Percentage of colleagues who disclose they 2 million.
are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender 0.6% 0.8% COLLEAGUES 2 Diversity scope of reporting: UK payroll headcount includes established and fixed term Our colleagues are at the heart of our business and are critical in ensuring contract colleagues and parental leavers.
Excludes Non-Executive Directors, contractors, we become the best bank for customers.
temp, agency, internationals, TSB, SWIP and Sainsburys.
Seniors managers: Grades F Diversity and inclusion Mangers: Grade D-E We want our Group to be a genuinely inclusive place to work, with every Data source: HR system HRIS.
Apart from gender data, all diversity information is based on colleague treated fairly, with dignity and respect.
Weve made public colleagues voluntary self-declaration.
As a result this data is not 100 per cent representative: commitments and set bold targets on diversity and inclusion in our our systems do not record any diversity data for the proportion of colleagues who have not declared this information.
These include commitments to: increase the proportion of senior management roles held by women: retain our Learning and development Gold Standard as a disability-confident organisation: and increase the engagement scores of ethnic minority colleagues, disabled colleagues We can only become the best bank for customers if all colleagues are and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender colleagues, measured via our capable of carrying out their roles to the best of their ability.
We plan to make more diversity and inclusion pledges 2014, we promoted the learning and development opportunities currently available to colleagues by running a series of coordinated campaigns, including road shows at Group locations across the UK, Read more about these issues online at National Learning at Work Week and National Customer Service Week.
com RB Increasing digitisation is reflected through our colleagues having access to training in a range of media how, when and where they need it.
28 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STAKEHOLDERS CO e emissions tonnes 2 Oct 13Sep 14 Oct 12-Sep 13 We have an active stakeholder engagement plan to ensure, through two-way dialogue, we listen to, and understand our stakeholders requirements.
Total CO e emissions 440,835 450,723 2 Scope 1 emissions 54,169 65,186 Investors and rating agencies We undertook more than 1,000 meetings with investors in 2014.
We Scope 2 emissions 263,129 259,253 regularly engage SRI ESG investors as well as investment analysts to Scope 3 emissions 123,537 126,284 provide them with information on our performance, strategic plans and how we do business responsibly.
In 2014 we held our first responsible Restated 2012 2013 emissions data to reflect improved reporting processes, using actual data business webinar with investors and analysts.
All data has been calculated to remove the impact of divestment activity in 2014, both from Suppliers the current reporting year emissions and prior years.
We want to work together with our suppliers and others in our Emissions in tonnes CO e in line with a recognised carbon accounting standard.
2 supply chain to ensure we source goods and services in ways that are A definition of Scope 1,2, 3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking Group criteria responsible, sustainable, mutually beneficial and provide best value for statement available online at www.
com our customers and shareholders.
Scope 1 emissions include combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
In 2014 we achieved a number of key milestones in our Sourcing Plan, Scope 2 emissions have increased despite a reduction in electricity consumption due to a including the launch of our Code of Supplier Responsibility which sets out significant increase of global-warming potential of the UK grid mix.
the minimum standards we expect from all suppliers.
These standards are based on the social, ethical and environmental principles that we believe Methodology a responsible business should demonstrate.
We also introduced our We follow the principles of the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Group-wide Supplier Qualification system, which will help us standardise Corporate Standard to calculate our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions from and manage requests for compliance and assurance data.
The reporting period for emissions is October 2013 to September Government 2014, which is different to that of our Directors Report January 2014 Were working directly with the UK government, members of Parliament December 2014.
This is in line with Regulations in that the majority of the and other stakeholders to improve ethical and quality standards in the emissions reporting year falls within the period of the Directors Report.
To help rebuild trust in banking, we must do, and be seen to be doing, the right thing helping Britain prosper through our business We report emissions based on an operational boundary.
The scope of activities in line with our strategy to become the best bank for customers.
our reporting is in line with GHG Protocol and covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Reported Scope 1 emissions cover emissions ENVIRONMENT generated from gas and oil used in Group buildings, emissions from UK Our ability to help Britain prosper is inextricably linked to wider company-owned vehicles used for business travel and emissions from the environmental issues.
Man made climate change and global trends such use of air conditioning and chiller refrigerant plant.
Reported Scope 2 as resource scarcity, extreme weather and rising energy and commodity emissions cover emissions generated from the use of electricity.
Reported prices have an impact on our stakeholders and our own operations.
Scope 3 emissions relate to business travel undertaken by colleagues and emissions associated with the extraction and distribution of each of We recognise the global challenge posed by these wider issues, and our energy sources electricity, gas and oil.
A detailed definition of these our responsibility to reduce the environmental impacts of our business emissions can be found in our environmental criteria statement online.
We are committed to managing our direct environmental impacts in a responsible manner and reducing our greenhouse gas Intensity ratio emissions.
We do this through our Environmental Action Plan, through An intensity ratio of GHG gases per m of underlying income has been which we aim to maximise the opportunity to create business value and selected.
minimise business risk in relation to our direct environmental impact.
Oct 13Sep 14 Oct 12-Sep 13 Our approach towards managing our environmental impact is set out GHG emissions per unit income 24.0 24.9 in our Environmental Statement, available online.
Verification Greenhouse gas emissions We have retained the services of  LLP PwC to We have voluntarily reported on our greenhouse gas emissions and provide an independent and robust assessment of the Groups Scope 1, 2 environmental performance in our annual Responsible Business Report and 3 emissions.
PwCs limited assurance report is available online.
and Annual Report and Accounts since 2009, but since 2013 we have reported emissions in line with the requirements of the Companies Act Omissions 2006.
Measuring emissions over time has enabled us to make appropriate Emissions associated with joint ventures and investments are not included investment in targeted reduction activities.
in the emissions disclosure as they fall outside the scope of our operational boundary.
We do not have any emissions associated with heat, steam or CO e emissions tonnes 2 cooling.
We are not aware of any other material sources of omissions from We report our emissions in terms of CO equivalent tonnes CO e. 2 2 our emissions reporting.
This year our overall carbon emissions have decreased by 2.2 per cent year-on-year and by 20.9 per cent against our 2009 baseline.
The majority of this reduction is attributable to the reduction in consumption of gas and electricity, which constitute the largest proportion of our emissions.
This reduction is mainly due to energy management activity, for example ENERGY EFFICIENCY continued optimisation of building management systems to ensure that heating and ventilation plant and lighting run times are matched to actual building occupancy times, and investment in 2014 of around 3.8 million reduction in energy use in specific energy efficiency measures, such as boiler controls, new compared to 2013 13.1% lighting and building management upgrades.
The only area where weve seen an increase in CO e related to 2 consumption, relates to oil.
The main reason is due to the new Horizon invested in energy saving data centre becoming operational in the past year and receiving several 3.8m technology in 2014 deliveries of new oil.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 29
