Governance Corporate governance report Our aim is to be the best bank for our retail and commercial customers, and we are determined to make it a company of the highest integrity and standards.
Similarly, the Group had been subject to the 2014 EU-wide stress test Dear Shareholders conducted by the European Banking Authority EBA to assess overall I am pleased to present our corporate governance report for the 2014 systemic risk in the EU financial system.
Again, the Group met all the financial year.
This report explains how the Group applies the highest capital benchmarks set out for the purpose of the stress test.
principles of corporate governance, in particular those laid down in the 2012 edition of the Financial Reporting Council FRC s UK Corporate Board composition Governance Code the Code.
The Code can be accessed at The Board appointed Alan Dickinson, Simon Henry, Dyfrig John www.
and Nick Prettejohn as directors in 2014.
The new directors, whose 2014 has been another significant year for Lloyds Banking Group.
The biographies are set out on pages 58 and 59, possess the necessary Board has taken a number of important decisions as we work towards technical skills, share our values and have the behavioural characteristics the goal of becoming the best bank for customers.
I am pleased to to contribute constructively to our Board, and the self-confidence and report that during the year the Board and its Committees met their key analytic capability to form and share independent judgements.
More objectives and carried out their responsibilities effectively.
information on the Boards approach to the recruitment of Directors is set out on page 74.
In addition, Anita Frew became Deputy Chairman Set out below are some of the principal corporate governance matters following the resignation of David Roberts and I took over as Chairman considered in 2014. from Sir Winfried Bischoff in April last year.
All Directors will stand for election re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Group strategy The Board spent considerable time in 2014 debating the strategic HM Treasury sell down priorities for the business over the next three years.
There were several In 2014, HM Treasurys interest in the Group was further reduced from meetings which focused entirely on Group strategy, including a two approximately 32.7 per cent of the ordinary share capital by way of day off-site.
The Group announced in October that, having successfully an accelerated bookbuilding process to institutional investors and rebuilt the Groups financial strength, its future focus will remain a pre-arranged trading plan.
On 20 February 2015, the Company on continuously improving the customer experience.
Through our was advised that HM Treasurys interest in the Group had reduced to multi-brand, multi-channel distribution, we will transform our digital 23.9 per cent.
capability, continue to simplify our operations and processes, and invest in the business to become the best bank for customers and thereby Legacy issues deliver strong, sustainable returns to shareholders.
We have continued to face legacy issues including Payment Protection Insurance and in July the Group announced that it had reached TSB settlements with UK and US federal authorities in regards to the In June and July 2014, as part of the divestment mandated by the manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate and Sterling Repo European Commission, the Group completed an initial public offering Rate.
In respect of the latter, the Board regards the actions of those of 38.5 per cent of the ordinary shares in TSB Banking Group plc individuals found responsible as completely unacceptable and has taken TSB.
A further 11.5 per cent was placed with institutional investors vigorous action over the last four years to prevent this kind of behaviour in September, reducing the Groups interest in TSB to approximately from re-occurring.
The significant investor demand for shares in TSB, reflected confidence in the prospects for the business.
The divestment of TSB occupied a considerable amount of the Boards Our aim is to be the best bank for our retail and commercial customers, time in 2014.
It is an important step for the Group as we act to meet our and we are determined to make the Group a company of the highest commitments to the European Commission.
Stress tests Finally I would like to thank the Board and our employees for their Lloyds Banking Group plc, together with seven other financial institutions support and commitment throughout the year.
in the UK, was subject to the 2014 stress test conducted by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA to assess resilience to adverse market developments and overall systemic risk in the UK financial system.
The key assumptions in the stress test included the UK house price index falling 35 per cent and unemployment peaking at 11.8 per cent, resulting in a material impact on those UK banks which are significantly exposed to the UK housing market.
Lord Blackwell Chairman The Group exceeded the capital threshold set out for the purpose of the stress test and was not required to take any action as a result of this test.
It will continue to ensure that its robust capital position is maintained.
62 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The role of the Company Secretary THE BOARD AND ITS MEMBERS The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and Purpose and responsibilities providing good information flows and comprehensive practical support The Group is led by a Board comprising a Non-Executive Chairman, to Directors, both as individuals and as a collective, with particular independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors.
The Board emphasis on supporting the Non-Executive Directors in maintaining the is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
highest standards of probity and corporate governance.
The Company It achieves this by setting the strategy and overseeing delivery against Secretary is also responsible for communicating with shareholders as it, establishing the culture, values and standards of the Group, ensuring appropriate and ensuring that due regard is paid to their interests.
All that the Group manages risk effectively, monitoring financial performance Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, have access to the services and reporting and ensuring that appropriate and effective succession of the Company Secretary in relation to the discharge of their duties.
planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a The role of the Directors matter for the Board as a whole.
Malcolm Wood was appointed as Set out below are the roles of the Chairman and other Board Company Secretary in November 2014. members.
Further details can be found on the website at www.
There is a clear division of responsibility Access to advice at the head of the Company.
The Chairman has overall responsibility The Group also provides access, at its expense, to the services of for the leadership of the Board while the Group Chief Executive independent professional advisers in order to assist Directors in their manages and leads the business.
Board Committees are also provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Overview of the roles of the Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Group Chief Executive Lord Blackwell was appointed Chairman Anthony Watson was appointed Senior Antnio Horta-Osrio was appointed Group on 3 April 2014, following the retirement of Independent Director on 17 May 2012.
The Group Sir Winfried Bischoff.
The Chairman: The Senior Independent Director: Chief Executive: has overall responsibility for the leadership of helps resolve shareholders concerns: manages the Group on a day to day basis, the Board and the promotion of the highest acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and in accordance with the strategy and standards of corporate governance: and Group Chief Executive on Board and long-term objectives approved by the Board: sets the Board meeting agendas to ensure shareholder matters: with the exception of those matters reserved that the Board devotes its time and attention is a conduit, as required, for the views to the Board, the Group Chief Executive to the right matters: of other Non-Executive Directors on the makes decisions on matters affecting the builds an effective and complementary performance of the Chairman: operations, performance and strategy of the Board: is available to shareholders if they have Groups businesses: plans succession in Board appointments concerns which contact through the normal provides leadership and direction to senior in conjunction with the Nomination & channels has failed to resolve or for which management: and Governance Committee: such contact is inappropriate: coordinates all activities to implement the ensures the Directors receive timely and attends sufficient meetings with major strategy and for managing the business in relevant information and are kept advised of shareholders and financial analysts to accordance with the Groups risk appetite key developments: and understand issues and concerns: and and business plan set by the Board.
ensures effective communication with conducts the Chairmans annual shareholders.
Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Anita Frew was appointed Deputy Chairman The Non-Executive Directors are listed on The Executive Directors are listed on page 59. pages 58 and 59.
Non-Executive Directors: on 14 May 2014 following the retirement of Executive Directors: David Roberts.
The Deputy Chairman: challenge constructively: under the leadership of the Group ensures continuity of effective Board Chief Executive, make and implement help develop and set the Groups strategy: Chairmanship during any change of decisions in all matters affecting the participate actively in the decision-making chairmanship: operation, performance and strategy of the process of the Board: Groups business.
supports the Chairman in representing the scrutinise the performance of management Board and acting as spokesperson: provide specialist knowledge and in meeting agreed goals and objectives: experience to the Board: provide entrepreneurial leadership of deputises for the Chairman in the discharge the Group within a framework of prudent of his duties: are responsible for the successful leadership effective controls: and management of the Risk and Finance is available to the Board for consultation and divisions: satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial advice: and information: and design, develop and implement strategic represents the Groups interests to official determine appropriate levels of plans: and enquiries and review bodies.
remuneration of Executive Directors via the deal with day-to-day operations of the Group.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 63 Governance Corporate governance report continued AUTHORITY AND DELEGATION Delegated executive authority The Group Chief Executive, through the delegated executive authority, Corporate governance framework delegates aspects of his own authority, as permitted, to members of the The Groups corporate governance framework, which is reviewed Group Executive Committee GEC.
The GEC meets weekly to scrutinise annually by the Board, comprises the board authority and the delegated items of key business.
Board authority The Group Audit Director, Group HR Director and the Company The board authority sets out the matters reserved to the Board.
These Secretary attend the weekly GEC meetings to ensure that there is include decisions concerning the strategy and long-term objectives appropriate internal audit oversight, that employee interests and of the Group, the Groups capital, medium-term plan and financial people strategy matters are considered and that the highest standards budgets, significant contracts and transactions and various statutory of corporate governance are maintained, including the escalation and regulatory approvals.
of matters to the Board and its Committees.
The approval of the remuneration policy, risk appetite and risk management framework is also reserved to the Board.
The board authority delegates responsibility for day-to-day management of A full schedule of all matters reserved to the Board can be found on our website at www.
com the business to the Group Chief Executive and sets out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board to Board Committees.
The following table provides an overview of the key matters considered by the Board in 2014.
Strategy and customer focus Governance Risk management The Board: The Board: The Board: approved an update to the Groups strategy carried out an annual review of the corporate approved the Groups risk appetite and risk and long-term objectives: governance framework, Board Committee management framework: terms of reference and key Group policies: approved an update to the 5 Year Operating monitored the Groups aggregate risk determined Board and Committee structure, Plan and the 2014 annual budget and exposures, risk return and emerging risks: reviewed delivery against plan: size and composition: scrutinised the results and approved the analysed the Groups performance against conducted deep dives into the Retail, submission of the Groups stress tests the 34 Salz recommendations, embedding Commercial Banking, Consumer Finance, conducted by the PRA and EBA: changes to the Groups governance Insurance, Group Operations and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk arrangements where necessary: Digital divisions: management and internal control systems: considered the findings of an annual review noted the brand revitalisation of the Scottish considered the findings of the annual control of the Boards effectiveness, implementing Widows Group: and effectiveness review: action plans where necessary and tracking developed customer dashboard and performance: received reports on risk compliance and risk monitored key metrics.
appetite dashboard performance: and monitored the Groups performance against EU State Aid Commitments: conducted a cyber-risk assessment and approved the implementation of measures appointed a new Deputy Chairman and to address cyber-risk.
four new Non-Executive Directors to the Board: and appointed a new Chairman to the Scottish Widows Group.
Transactions and contingency planning Structure and capital Finance, statutory and regulatory The Board: The Board: requirements The Board: approved strategic proposals, including approved material changes to the capital the IPO of TSB Bank: and structure of HBOS and Bank of Scotland: considered regulatory changes to be introduced by the Banking Reform Act considered the impact of a yes vote in considered the basis for allocation of capital, including retail ring-fencing: Scotland on the Groups operations.
investments, acquisitions, mergers or disposals: and approved the annual report and accounts and significant accounting changes: and approved large transactions, including the sale of portfolios of UK and European real approved the shareholder notice of annual estate loans and tender offers for Enhanced general meeting.
64 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 BOARD LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC BOARD COMMITTEES Nomination & Governance Audit Risk Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews the Boards governance Monitors and reviews the Groups Monitors the Groups compliance Recommends an overall arrangements to ensure that they financial reporting arrangements, with the Boards approved risk remuneration policy and are consistent with best practice, the effectiveness of the internal appetite, risk management philosophy that is aligned with the assists the Chairman in reviewing controls and the risk management framework and risk culture long-term interests of the Group, the composition of the Board and framework, and the internal and business objectives, risk appetite leads the appointments process external audit process: manages all and values for nominations to the Board aspects of the relationship with the external auditor GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE ANTNIO HORTA-OSRIO Responsible for managing the business of the Group, in accordance with the strategy and long-term objectives approved by the Board.
GROUP EXECUTIVE MEMBERS COMMITTEES These include the Group Executive Committee Please see pages 114 and 115 for a list of the Executive Committees and their purpose The role of the Board Committees Scotland plc, comprise the same Directors.
The Board meetings for these companies are held concurrently with the agenda split between The Board is supported by its Committees which make recommendations to the Board on matters delegated to them, in particular in relation to the companies to allow decisions to be taken and scrutinised by the appropriate Board.
internal control, risk, financial reporting, governance and remuneration matters.
This enables the Board to spend a greater proportion of its In addition the Group has an insurance subsidiary, Scottish Widows time on strategic, forward looking agenda items.
Each Committee Group Limited, which itself also has a number of separate operating comprises Non-Executive Directors only and is chaired by an experienced subsidiaries.
The Board of Scottish Widows Group Limited, which also Chairman.
The Committee Chairs report to the Board on the activities of sits as the Board of its major subsidiaries, is chaired by a non-executive the Committee at each Board meeting.
Information on the membership, member of the Lloyds Banking Group Board and contains a balance of role and activities of the Nomination & Governance, the Audit and the independent non-executive directors, Group executives and Insurance Risk Committees can be found on pages 73 to 81.
Information on the Division executives.
This composition supports its legal and regulatory Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors remuneration requirements for independent decision making within the overall report on pages 82 to 103.
Terms of Reference for each of the Board framework of Group policies and controls.
Committees can be found on the website at www.
com To help manage the legal, regulatory and reputational risks associated with the Groups subsidiary entities, the Group requires that subsidiary Subsidiary governance boards and their directors meet minimum governance standards, as laid The Group conducts the majority of its business through a number down in the legal entity management standards and directors handbook.
The Boards of the four main companies, Lloyds Banking Group plc, Lloyds Bank plc, HBOS plc and Bank of Board strategy review During the year, the Board spent considerable time in a number of meetings, including two days off-site, to debate and devise its strategy for the next three years, building on the Groups strong foundations of having become a low cost, low risk, UK focused retail and commercial bank.
Discussions linked in with those for the five-year operating plan and included economic trends, the competitive and regulatory environment, Group culture and values, the need to rebuild trust with customers, digital transformation, the future of distribution, financial planning and retirement, organisational capability, simplification, IT delivery and risk oversight.
Discussions within other committees were also fed through to the Board for consideration, such as those of the Group Executive Committee and its Strategy Working Group, a forum which oversees development of the Group strategy, delivery of the Group Strategic Review and which gives consideration to strategic priorities and opportunities across the Group.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 65 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD TENURE Board size and composition The Board should be of sufficient size to reflect a broad range of views 1.
2 - 4 years 4 and perspectives whilst allowing all Directors to participate effectively 2.
The Board currently comprises three Executive Directors, Directors 1 nine independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was independent on appointment.
The size of the Board is within the 1 2 optimal range set by the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Further details on the composition of the Board and independence of the Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Nomination & Governance BOARD CHANGES IN 2014 Total number of Directors Committee report.
Jan Dyfrig John appointed 12 0 13 Board appointments Apr Sir Winfried Bischoff retired 11 The chart opposite sets out the changes to Board membership in 2014.
The appointment of new directors to the Board follows a formal, rigorous May David Roberts retired 10 and transparent procedure.
More information on Board and Committee 0 13 composition and the appointment process is set out in the Nomination & June Nick Prettejohn and Simon Henry appointed 12 Governance Committee report.
The Directors biographies are set out on Sept Alan Dickinson appointed 13 pages 58 and 59.
Manipulation of LIBOR and Sterling Repo Rate Background Since 2010 the Group has been engaged with a number of The Board regards the actions government agencies in the UK, US and elsewhere, who are conducting investigations into the manipulation several years ago of of these individuals between submissions made by panel members to the bodies that set various interbank offered rates, including the London Interbank Offered Rate 2006 and 2009 as completely LIBOR and Sterling Repo Rate, along with other reference rates.
Their behaviour involved a gross breach of Board response Over the last four years, the Group has fundamentally overhauled trust and we condemn it systems and controls across the bank including the separation of without reservation.
key control functions such as Risk, Finance and Compliance from the business divisions in order to remove potential conflicts and provide clear independence.
The Audit function has been strengthened and given an expanded remit through oversight of financial risks and controls and greater prominence with the Group Audit Director Lord Blackwell attending the Group Executive Committee meetings.
The Groups Chairman culture and values have changed: systems and processes were improved and more effective controls were implemented.
In 2014 settlement negotiations commenced with UK and US federal Outcome authorities.
To manage this process, first the Board Risk Committee In July 2014 the Group announced the payment of 217 million and then a specifically established Market Practices Sub-Committee in settlements to UK and US federal authorities in connection with of the Board Risk Committee investigated the issues, which were its manipulation several years ago of LIBOR and Sterling Repo Rate restricted to a specific area of the business and during a limited time between May 2006 and 2009. period.
The Market Practices Sub-Committee met five times during The individuals involved have either left the Group, been dismissed, 2014, reporting to the Board Risk Committee with updates to the been suspended or are subject to disciplinary proceedings.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee acted as the Chairman totalling 3 million have been clawed back from those involved.
66 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Breakthrough, a womens network committed to encouraging the Executive Director service contracts and Non-Executive development of female colleagues and to leverage this talent pool: Director terms of appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specified The Group Ethnic Minority network which focuses on career term.
All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
development and supports the aspirations of its members: Non-Executive Directors may have their appointment terminated, in The Access Network which aims to provide support for colleagues accordance with statute and the articles of association, at any time with with disabilities via initiatives such as mentoring, advice and social immediate effect and without compensation.
Executive Directors have events: and service contracts with the Group.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Rainbow, an inclusive Group-wide network for lesbian, gay, bisexual Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer are each obliged to give six and transgender colleagues aiming to promote a positive and inclusive months notice of their intention to retire from their respective roles.
terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Director service agreements are available for inspection at the More information on the Groups diversity programmes, including registered office address.
details of the Groups commitment to raise the percentage of women employed in senior management roles to 40 per cent by 2020, is provided in the Responsible Business section of our website at Election and re-election www.
All Directors appointed to the Board since the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2014 will stand for election at the 2015 AGM.
All other Directors will retire and those wishing to serve again will submit themselves for Conflicts of interest re-election at the AGM.
Biographies of current Directors are set out on All Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries must avoid any situation pages 58 and 59.
Details of the Directors seeking election or re-election which might give rise to a conflict between their personal interests and at the AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Prior to appointment, potential conflicts of interest are disclosed and assessed to ensure that there are no matters which Directors and Officers liability insurance would prevent that person from taking on the role.
Throughout 2014 the Group had appropriate insurance cover in place Directors are responsible for notifying the Chairman and Company to protect Directors, including former Directors who retired during the Secretary as soon as they become aware of actual or potential conflict year, from liabilities that may arise against them personally in connection situations.
In addition, conflicts are monitored as follows: with the performance of their role.
As well as insurance cover, the Group the Directors are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire on agrees to indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted appointment and annually thereafter: by law.
Further information on the Groups indemnity arrangements is provided on page 104. changes to the commitments of all Directors are reported to the Nomination & Governance Committee and the Board: and Diversity policy a register of potential conflicts and time commitments is regularly The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reviewed and authorised by the Board to ensure the authorisation reflects diversity in the broadest sense.
The combination of personalities status remains appropriate.
and experience on the Board provides a comprehensive range of If any potential conflict arises, the articles of association permit the Board perspectives and challenge and improves the quality of decision making.
to authorise the conflict, subject to such conditions or limitations as the At the end of 2013 and during the year, the Board recruited four directors Board may determine.
with the assistance of a number of executive search firms, as described Carolyn Fairbairn is a Non-Executive Director of the Competition and in more detail on page 74.
Each of the firms was briefed on the Groups Markets Authority CMA.
She recuses herself from all discussions at the diversity policy, diversity being one important aspect of the search for the CMA on their investigation into banking competition.
The Board has adopted the recommendations of Lord Davies of 25 per cent female representation by 2015.
Time commitments After diligent processes, the persons selected with the best fit and the Non-Executive Directors are required to devote such time as is necessary most relevant skills and experience were Alan Dickinson, Simon Henry, for the effective discharge of their duties.
On average, this equates to Dyfrig John and Nick Prettejohn.
Following these appointments, female at least 35 to 40 days per annum including attendance at Committee representation on the Board has dropped from 27 per cent last year meetings.
For Committee Chairs, this increases to at least 45 to 50 days to 23 per cent although the actual number of women on the Board with the Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman spending remains the same at three.
considerably more than 50 days on the Groups business.
Non-Executive Directors may be expected to relinquish other appointments to ensure The following table details the percentage of women employed at that they can meet the time commitments of their role.
various levels of seniority within the Group as at 31 December 2013 and 2014 at all levels of the organisation: Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors reflect the time commitment and Female Board Female senior Female responsibilities of the role.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive share members managers managers All staff options or other performance related pay.
Executive Directors are restricted to taking on no more than one non-executive director role in a FTSE 100 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 company.
The Chairman is required to commit to this being his primary 27.3% 23.0% 28.5% 29.3% 45.1% 45.4% 58.7% 58.6% role, limiting his other commitments to ensure he can spend as much time as the role requires.
Since the announcement of his appointment to the role of Chairman in December 2013, Lord Blackwell has taken steps to ensure Developing diversity that he can adequately meet the time commitments of the role and has The Board recognises that senior management is a group from which resigned from his positions at Halma plc and Ofcom, in March and July future directors may be selected.
To promote diversity across the whole 2014 respectively.
The Chairmans biography can be found on page 58.
Group, a variety of networks have been implemented which include: BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 67 Governance Corporate governance report continued TRAINING BOARD AGENDA AND ATTENDANCE Board induction Setting the Board agenda All Directors are expected to make an informed contribution based on The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda, assisted by an understanding of the Groups business model and the key challenges the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
A yearly planner is facing the Group and its businesses.
The Chairman ensures that all prepared by the Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the business to the Board and to ensure that sufficient time is being set aside Board, facilitated by the Company Secretary and comprising: for strategic discussions.
a corporate induction, including an introduction to the Board and Prior to each Board meeting the Chairman reviews the agenda and time a detailed overview of the Group, its strategy, operational structures allocation with the Group Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and and main business activities.
Non-Executive Directors are also afforded the Chief Financial Officer.
The Group Chief Executive holds a separate opportunities to meet with major shareholders in order to develop Board paper review meeting to review the individual papers.
That an understanding of their views about the Company: meeting is held with the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Company Secretary and authors of the main papers, as required.
the roles and responsibilities of a Director, including statutory duties and responsibilities of an FCA approved person: Effective use of the Boards time a bespoke induction programme tailored by the Chairman to the To ensure that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of individual needs of the Director with regard to their specific role and a material nature, Board dinners and or breakfast meetings are held prior their skills and experience to date.
This takes the form of reading to each scheduled Board meeting.
This allows the Directors greater time materials and meetings with senior executives across the Group and to discuss their views and, where relevant, form a consensus ahead of sessions with the Groups business divisions: and the meeting.
These pre-meetings are normally attended by all members a detailed induction programme across Risk, focusing on: risk appetite of the Board but often the pre-meetings are held without the Executive and the Groups risk profile: compliance and conduct risk: capital, stress Directors present and separately, at least once a year, without the testing, analytics and modelling: liquidity risk: Retail and Wealth credit Chairman in attendance.
risk: Commercial Banking credit risk: operational risk and financial crime: The Non-Executive Directors also receive regular updates from the EU State aid, risk transformation, ring-fence banking, recovery and Group Chief Executives office and hold regular one-to-one meetings with resolution planning: global non-core: and the separation of TSB Bank.
the Group Chief Executive in the form of a weekly email or briefing call.
On being appointed Deputy Chairman and interim Risk Committee Chairman, Anita Frew attended numerous meetings with the relevant Attendance at meetings business executives, including the Chief Risk Officer, and shadowed the The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings is shown previous incumbent closely in the handover period.
In particular, Ms Frew in the table overleaf.
Whilst all Non-Executive Directors are invited to, received dedicated training from business executives on stress testing to and regularly attend, other Committee meetings, only their attendance support her role as Chairman of the Stress Testing Sub-Committee of the at Committees of which they are members is recorded.
In 2014, a total of 15 Board meetings were held, eight of which were scheduled and seven of which were ad hoc meetings.
Ad hoc Board Professional development meetings are called at short notice to discuss a matter that cannot wait The Board receives regular refresher training and information sessions until the next scheduled Board meeting.
Where a Director is unable to throughout the year to address current business or emerging issues.
attend a meeting, the Chairman discusses the matter with the Director This is done under the leadership of the Chairman who will also regularly and seeks their support for the proposed recommendation.
He also review and agree with each Director their training and development represents their views at the meeting.
Also, any Director unable to needs.
Information sessions are delivered through a variety of business attend a meeting has the opportunity to review any papers and provide updates, including sessions on: comments to the Chairman.
capital and liquidity including stress testing requirements : The Directors attended a number of other Board Committee and the Senior Persons Regime: Sub-Committee meetings during the year, including meetings in accounting developments: relation to the Initial Public Offering and disposal of a further holding the structural hedge: and in TSB, the regulatory par call of Enhanced Capital Notes, the Market Practices Committee which provided oversight in relation to the Groups credit rating agency developments.
settlement negotiations on LIBOR and the Sterling Repo Rate, and the These sessions also allow the Executive Directors an opportunity to oversight of PPI.
consider business areas outside their direct responsibilities.
In addition, the Board hosted a series of deep dives in 2014 to which Group strategy all Directors were invited, and which provided an in-depth review of the In addition to routine strategic discussion at Board meetings throughout operations of each of the business divisions and of the latest accounting the year, the Directors spent two days off site in 2014 focusing entirely on standards and operating methodologies.
The Board Risk Committee also the Groups strategic priorities.
received reviews from each division.
All of the Directors attend the Board Risk Committee meetings.
2014 BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME including deep dives and away days Directors are also invited to attend courses, management meetings and 5 one-to-one meetings with key executives.
Other, including remuneration oversight 6% 68 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Lloyds Banking Group Board Nomination & Scheduled Ad hoc Governance Audit Board Risk Remuneration 2 2 meetings meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Current Directors who served during 2014 Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Antnio Horta-Osrio 8 8 7 7 - - - - - - - - Lord Blackwell 8 8 7 7 6 6 4 4 7 7 5 5 Juan Colombs 8 8 7 7 - - - - - - - - George Culmer 8 8 7 7 - - - - - - - - Alan Dickinson 2 2 4 4 - - 2 2 3 3 - - 4 5 Carolyn Fairbairn 7 8 6 7 - - 8 8 - - 11 11 Anita Frew 8 8 7 7 6 6 8 8 7 7 5 5 5 3 3 Simon Henry 3 3 4 5 - - 2 3 3 4 - - Dyfrig John 8 8 7 7 - - 5 5 7 7 4 4 Nick Luff 8 8 7 7 1 1 8 8 7 7 - - Nick Prettejohn 4 4 5 5 - - 4 4 4 4 - - 5 3,4 3 Anthony Watson 8 8 6 7 6 6 6 8 6 7 11 11 5 Sara Weller 8 8 7 7 - - - - 7 7 10 11 Former Directors who served during 2014 Sir Winfried Bischoff 3 3 2 2 3 3 - - 2 2 6 6 4 David Roberts 4 4 2 2 3 4 4 4 3 3 6 6 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 The number of Committee meetings includes ad hoc meetings.
5 Meeting arranged at short notice.
Board composition and size: culture and dynamics: balance of skills EFFECTIVENESS and experience: diversity: relationships between management and Board effectiveness independent directors: governance: the Boards calendar and agenda: The Chairman of the Board leads the rolling review of the Boards the quality and timeliness of information and support for Directors and effectiveness and that of its committees and individual directors with the Committees.
The process for the review consisted of: support of the Nomination & Governance Committee, which he also chairs.
a detailed questionnaire, prepared by the Company Secretary in The annual evaluation provides an opportunity to consider ways of conjunction with the Chairman, to assess the effectiveness of the Board, identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and highlighting its Committees and individual Directors: areas for further development.
follow up interviews by the Company Secretary with each Director: Following the comments captured in the 2013 Board effectiveness review feedback to the Nomination & Governance Committee: and and upon becoming Chairman, Lord Blackwell introduced a number of actions to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
Actions included: a recommended action plan.
meeting times extended to include regular deep dives on specific At the time of the 2015 AGM Anthony Watson will have been on the business issues: Board for more than six years.
Therefore, in compliance with the Code, his review was particularly rigorous.
additional deep dive sessions on business areas to be held between Board meetings: The evaluation of the Chairman by the Non-Executive Directors was all Non-Executive Directors encouraged to attend risk, audit and led by the Senior Independent Director through questionnaires and remuneration committee meetings: interviews for those who wanted to discuss anything further.
The views of the Executive Directors were also taken into account.
abbreviated routine performance reporting: self-standing timely papers supporting proposed Board decisions: The reviews concluded that the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors continues to informal discussion opportunities to be included in Board sessions: be effective.
All Directors demonstrated commitment to their roles.
guest speakers to be invited for informal lunches: and The outcome of the effectiveness review has been discussed by the frequent informal dinners.
Board and each of the Committees.
The outcome of the evaluation of the Chairman was discussed by the Non-Executive Directors in the absence 2014 evaluation of the Boards performance Evaluation of the Board is externally facilitated at least every three years.
If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed action which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board The last externally facilitated evaluation was in 2012.
This years evaluation was conducted internally between December 2014 and January 2015 minutes.
Also on resignation, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to provide a written statement of any concerns to the Chairman, for by the Company Secretary, led by the Chairman and overseen by the Nomination & Governance Committee.
The 2014 review considered the circulation to the Board.
No such concerns were raised in 2014. following areas: strategy: risk and control: planning and performance: BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 69 Governance Corporate governance report continued A summary of the Boards progress against the actions arising from the 2014 and 2013 effectiveness reviews are set out below: Themes Observations Actions taken to be taken Progress comments 2014 Board Effectiveness Review internal The timeliness and content of Despite some improvement, timeliness Further targeted training for authors is To be reported on in 2016.
Board and Committee papers and clarity of papers remains an issue.
needed to ensure papers are delivered in a timely manner, present a balanced view of all issues and are concise.
The process for escalation of matters to The mechanisms to ensure appropriate Current escalation mechanisms to To be reported on in 2016. the Board and its Committees escalation of issues to the Board outside be reviewed and amended where the matters reserved for the Board or risk appropriate.
The creation of a new Board Committee Board oversight for matters of the kind The formation of a Responsible Business To be reported on in 2016. currently covered by the executive Board Committee is being considered.
Responsible Business Committee would be welcome.
2013 Board Effectiveness Review internal Quality and timeliness of Board papers Actions taken previously had reduced Targeted training was rolled out to The quality and timeliness of Board and volume, but more was required to senior managers to ensure papers focus Committee papers continues to challenge improve quality and timeliness of on the areas that are most likely to lead the business.
The mix of skills and experience on Additional banking, finance and risk Dyfrig John, Nick Prettejohn, Simon Completed In 2014 the Board gained the Board experience needed.
Henry and Alan Dickinson were significant banking, finance, risk and appointed in 2014. insurance experience with the appointment of four directors.
Refocusing the Board agenda Devote more time to strategic and More time was allocated to customer Completed In 2014 the Board was able customer issues.
dashboards and peer analysis, as well as to devote significant time on the Groups deep dive sessions.
Governance A udit Committee case study The proposal to tender for the audit work of the Group was overseen external audit tender by the Audit Committee Chairman.
The tender process involved three stages, these are summarised below.
Each firm was invited to an extensive series of The Audit Committee confirmed in the Groups 2013 Annual interviews with members of the Audit Committee, members of the Report and Accounts that it was considering conducting an audit Board and a number of the Groups senior management team.
These tender during 2014 with a view to reappointing a new firm, or interviews formed part of a formal assessment process whereby each  PwC, with effect from 1 January 2016. firm was scored against key criteria, including matters such as the A final decision was to be made once there was further clarity on strength and experience of senior team members and their firms the likely requirements of the proposed EU Directive concerning the ability to serve effectively the Groups diverse and sizeable operations.
Submission of a written proposal document.
Each firm was The EU Directive was approved by the European Parliament on asked to provide detailed information in writing on certain matters in 3 April 2014 and introduced a requirement for Public Interest Entities to support of their proposal which were key to the Audit Committees retender their audits at least every 10 years and to change the auditor assessment of each bid.
This included matters such as: any at least every 20 years.
The Directive contained transitional rules which, independence issues faced by the firm in connection with their ability given PwCs length of service in its role as auditors to the Group, meant to serve the Group as auditors: the outcome of recent internal or that the Group would not be able to reappoint PwC after the 2020 year external reviews to assess the quality of their firms audits: details on end audit.
their audit methodology and areas of audit focus with regards to the The Audit Committee took the decision in April 2014 to invite three Group: and an analysis of their expected level of audit effort by grade firms to tender for the audit of the Group with effect from the 2016 year of staff and hours per year.
It was the Audit Committees intention to complete this process Tender presentations.
All three of the firms were invited to present during the first half of 2014. their audit proposition to a Selection Committee.
The Selection The decision to commence a tender process was taken having Committee was comprised of Mr Luff, Ms Fairbairn and Ms Frew.
given due consideration to the new EU legislation.
Whilst the Audit A number of the Board members were also in attendance for these Committee noted that the Group was not obliged to change its auditor presentations.
for a number of years, it was still felt that it would be appropriate to Following the presentations the Selection Committee submitted a undertake a tender process at this juncture.
The Audit Committees summary of the proposals and a recommendation for consideration decision as to the timing of the tender was also influenced by the understanding that at least two other UK banks were likely to put by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee in turn provided a recommendation to the Board for consideration and approval.
their audits out to tender in the near future and potentially as early as the second half of 2014.
Outcome In light of this, it was felt that by undertaking a tender process in the As was confirmed in the Groups 2014 half-year results news release, first half of the year the Group could avoid overlapping their tender after careful consideration of the strength of each proposal, the Board process with other UK banks, which might be of benefit to the Group accepted the recommendation from the Audit Committee to retain the as it would ensure that the participating firms could put forward their services of PwC.
Accordingly, subject to shareholders approval, PwC strongest available team.
will be reappointed as auditor.
There will be a mandatory rotation for the 2021 year-end audit.
70 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SHAREHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Company Secretary and retail shareholders The Board recognises the need for a programme of engagement which Group Secretariat has a dedicated team responsible for managing offers all shareholders opportunities to receive information directly and services and communications for and with retail shareholders.
to enable them to share their views with the Board.
The Groups registrar, Equiniti Limited, provides a dedicated shareholder telephone and dealing service to assist shareholders in managing their Key facts at 31 December 2014: investments.
Investors can also manage their shareholdings online.
The Group has the largest number of registered ordinary The Group engages directly with retail shareholders to respond to shareholders in the UK enquiries that are specific to the Group covering topics such as legacy matters, results, resumption of dividends and strategic progress.
Retail shareholders represent approximately 98.3 per cent of the total number of shareholders Group Secretariat runs a programme of asset reunification through ProSearch, a subsidiary of the registrar.
This is tailored to specific sections Institutional shareholders held approximately 95.5 per cent of the of former and current shareholders and since its inception in 2011 in issued share capital on the share register, including approximately excess of 13 million has been successfully reunited with more than 7 per cent held on behalf of retail shareholders 185,000 shareholders.
Investor Relations The Annual General Meeting AGM Investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing and developing The AGM is the principal opportunity for shareholders to engage directly the Groups external relationships with existing and potential institutional with the Board.
It is more commonly used by retail shareholders as an equity investors.
Supported by the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial opportunity to share views and raise questions during the meeting, but Officer, and other members of the senior management team, and the afterwards there is the opportunity to meet the Directors and members of Senior Independent Director where appropriate, they achieve this through the Group Executive Committee.
All Board members attended the AGM a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional investors both at held in Edinburgh in 2014 and will also attend the AGM in 2015. results briefings and throughout the year, as well as individual discussions In accordance with the articles of association, the AGM is held in with institutional investors.
Scotland, usually in May, with attendance of between 350 to 500 Further, the team ensures that the Groups Board and Group Executive shareholders, members of the media and other guests and observers.
Committee are informed of key messages, market developments and For those unable to attend, the AGM is broadcast live through the perception of the Group in the market.
The primary responsibility for internet with a recording being made available on our website.
managing and developing relationships with existing and potential debt Usually, in excess of 70 per cent of total voting rights is voted by investors rests with the Group Corporate Treasury team with support from shareholders.
The results are a key indicator of how shareholders Investor Relations.
At the AGM in 2014, the in favour vote range Investor Relations is also responsible for delivering the Groups financial across all resolutions was 87.25 per cent to 99.98 per cent.
results which includes presentations to the market and publication of formal results and announcements, as well as hosting regular national INTERNAL CONTROL and international roadshows and meetings for current and potential The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management systems institutional equity and debt investors in the Company.
and internal controls, which are designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external Investor contact reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The During 2014, the Group held over 1,000 meetings with institutional equity Directors and senior management are committed to maintaining a robust and debt investors in the UK and overseas.
Typical discussion points control framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk for institutional investors during the year included the Groups financial management.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities in relation performance: the Groups strategy as outlined within the Strategic to the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for Update announced in October 2014: performance against strategy: reviewing their effectiveness.
progress in meeting regulatory requirements: as well as a number of In establishing and reviewing the systems of risk management and issues that were pertinent at different times in the year such as the internal control, the Directors consider the nature and extent of the risks Initial Public Offering of TSB and the Scottish Referendum.
facing the Group, the likelihood of a risk event occurring and the costs of control.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, rather Governance and executive remuneration than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can Both the Chairman and Anthony Watson, the Groups Senior therefore only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The process for identification, have participated in discussions with investors regarding governance evaluation, escalation and management of the principal risks faced and the strategic direction of the Group.
Anthony Watson, supported by by the Group is integrated into the Groups overall framework for risk Investor Relations and the Human Resources Reward team, has engaged governance.
The Group is forward-looking in its risk identification extensively with proxy advisors and the Groups larger shareholders to processes to ensure emerging risks are identified.
The risk identification, consult on issues relating to executive remuneration.
evaluation and management process also identifies whether the controls in place result in an acceptable level of risk.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 71 Governance Corporate governance report continued At Group level, a consolidated risk report and risk appetite dashboard The 2014 CER found that, overall, the Group is well controlled and that are reviewed and regularly debated by the Group Risk Committee, Board the control environment has improved year-on-year, with no significant Risk Committee and the Board to ensure they are satisfied with the failings or weaknesses identified.
This conclusion is consistent with overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The report the delivery of previously initiated action plans and an improvement and dashboard provide a monthly view of the Groups overall risk profile, in the operational risk profile of the Group.
The Audit Committee, in key risks and management actions, together with performance against conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, concluded that the Groups risk appetite and an assessment of emerging risks which could affect risk management systems and internal controls were effective and the Groups performance over the life of the operating plan.
Information adequate having regard to the Groups risk profile and strategy, and regarding the main features of the internal control and risk management recommended that the Board approve them accordingly.
systems in relation to the financial reporting process is provided in the risk management report on pages 107 to 170.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE UK Corporate Governance Code An annual control effectiveness review CER is undertaken to evaluate The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code applied to the the effectiveness of the Groups control framework with regard to its 2014 financial year.
The Group confirms that it applied the main principles material risks, and to ensure management actions are in place to address and complied with all provisions of the 2012 Code throughout the year, as key gaps or weaknesses in the control framework.
Business areas and required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
head office functions assess the controls in place to address all material risk exposures across all risk types.
The CER considers all material In September 2014 the Financial Reporting Council published an controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
updated version of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This applies to Members of senior management complete an attestation to confirm the the 2015 financial year and the Group will report on its application of the CER findings which are reviewed and independently challenged by the 2014 Code in the 2015 annual report.
Risk Division and Group Audit and reported to the Board.
Action plans are implemented to address any control deficiencies.
The British Bankers Association Code for Financial The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems Reporting Disclosure is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee, which also The Group has adopted the British Bankers Associations Code for receives reports of reviews undertaken by the Risk Division and Group Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2014 financial statements have Audit.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Companys been prepared in compliance with its principles.
auditor,  LLP which include details of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has a discussion COMMITTEE REPORTS with the auditor at least once a year without executives present, to ensure The following pages contain reports from the Nomination & Governance that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Groups risk management and internal control systems are regularly Further information about the work of the Remuneration Committee reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the Guidance on Risk is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 82 to 103.
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council and compliant with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV.
They have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report.
72 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Nomination & Governance Committee members Appointed resigned Committee chairman Lord Blackwell 03 04 2014 Committee members Anita Frew 25 04 2013 Nick Luff 26 06 2014 Anthony Watson 01 03 2010 Former Committee members Sir Winfried Bischoff 03 04 2014 David Roberts 14 05 2014 In 2014 the Board was strengthened through the appointment of four Non-Executive Directors, each of whom share our values, have the behavioural characteristics to contribute constructively to our Board, and the self-confidence and analytic capability to form and share independent judgements.
Lord Blackwell Chairman, Nomination & Governance Committee Nomination & Governance Committee report and the appointment of Alan Dickinson as Risk Committee Chairman Chairmans overview During 2014, the Committee continued to keep under review the in place of Anita Frew from January 2015.
Groups governance arrangements, succession planning and the The Committee considered progress against the action plan to effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
address the issues identified out of the 2013 Board effectiveness review and oversaw an internal review for 2014, led by the Chairman The Committee recommended that the Board appoint a number and conducted by the Company Secretary.
Details of the effectiveness of new directors.
More on the appointments of Dyfrig John, review can be found on pages 69 and 70.
Nicholas Prettejohn, Simon Henry and Alan Dickinson can be found on the next page.
The Committee monitored changes in regulation, most notably During the year the Committee also recommended the appointment regulation brought about by the implementation of the Capital Requirements Directive IV which covers prudential rules for banks, of Anita Frew a director since 2010 as Deputy Chairman and interim Risk Committee Chairman, following the retirement of David Roberts building societies and investment firms.
To ensure a broad representation of experienced and independent Committee purpose and responsibilities Directors, membership of the Nomination & Governance Committee The purpose of the Nomination & Governance Committee is to keep comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the Senior Independent the Boards governance, composition, skills, experience, knowledge, Director also the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the independence and succession arrangements under review and to make Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief Executive attends appropriate recommendations to the Board to ensure the Companys meetings as appropriate.
arrangements are consistent with the highest corporate governance standards.
A full list of the Committees responsibilities is detailed in its During the year the Committee met its key objectives and carried terms of reference, which can be found on our website at out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual www.
A description of the Groups diversity policy can be found on page 67.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 73 Governance Corporate governance report continued Board composition and skills Background In each case, a short list was prepared and the candidates were interviewed by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and individual members of Following his appointment as Chairman in April 2014, Lord Blackwell undertook an assessment of the collective technical and governance skills that the Committee.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Committee, then recommended the preferred candidate to the full Board for appointment, he sought from the Non-Executive Directors, together with an assessment of how the existing Board members met those desired characteristics.
subject to regulatory approval, as Directors must seek and maintain Approved Person status and comply with the Statements of Principle This exercise allowed the creation of a framework which helped determine the desired profile of Board members, now and in the future.
issued by the FCA and the Code of Practice for Approved Persons.
The assessment of individuals skills and experience in a skills matrix The outcome revealed good coverage amongst the existing Non-Executive Directors, The Board appointed four new directors in 2014, all of whom share our but a high dependency on a limited number of individuals with core retail values, have the behavioural characteristics to contribute constructively and commercial banking experience and experience in IT operations.
to our Board, and the capability to form and share independent judgements.
The Board response Dyfrig John and Alan Dickinson brought deep understanding of retail To address this situation, the Board sought to recruit new and corporate banking as well as risk management.
Furthermore, Non-Executive Directors to strengthen coverage in these critical areas.
Dyfrig John has a wealth of IT experience.
The Nomination & Governance Committee oversees the Boards Nick Prettejohn has significant financial services experience, particularly arrangements for the longer-term succession of Board and Committee members.
The recruitment of new or replacement directors is organised in insurance.
He replaced Lord Blackwell as chair of the Groups insurance business, Scottish Widows.
with the assistance of executive search firms.
Simon Henry has extensive financial expertise and international JCA Group assisted with the search in respect of the appointments of experience in board level strategy and execution.
Dyfrig John and Nick Prettejohn.
Egon Zehnder facilitated the search for Simon Henry and Odgers Berndtson supported the search which For further information on the Directors experience, please see their resulted in the appointment of Alan Dickinson.
None of the executive biographies on pages 58 and 59 or on the website at search firms have any other connection with the Group.
com HOW THE NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE SPENT ITS TIME IN 2014 its deliberations, to ensure appropriate representation on each of the Corporate governance Boards Committees and to plan for longer-term succession: and The Committee: considered the adequacy of succession arrangements for Executive oversaw the Boards governance arrangements to ensure that they paid due regard to best practice principles and remain appropriate: Directors, members of the Group Executive Committee and their direct reports.
The Chairman is responsible for developing and maintaining a received regular corporate governance updates from the Company succession plan in relation to the Group Chief Executive who is in turn, Secretary: primarily responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan monitored developing trends, initiatives or proposals in relation to for key leadership positions in the senior executive team.
board governance issues in the UK and elsewhere: considered the impact of emerging regulation on the Board and its Composition, skills and independence corporate governance practices: The Committee: reviewed and approved the annual corporate governance report: reviewed the appropriate structure, size and composition of the Board, monitored Board governance issues including the establishment of having regard to the balance of skills, experience, independence, appropriate policies and practices to enable the Board to operate knowledge and leadership needs of the Group: effectively and efficiently: and reviewed the independence of Non-Executive Directors, the reviewed the Groups corporate governance framework, comprising re-appointment or re-election of Directors and their suitability to the board authority and the delegated executive authority.
In assessing independence, the Committee did not rely solely on the Code criteria but considered whether, in fact, the Effectiveness and succession planning Non-Executive Director was demonstrably independent and free of The Committee: relationships and other circumstances that could affect their judgement.
oversaw the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and It did this with reference to the individual performance and conduct in its Committees, and recommended actions to address the findings.
It also took account of any relationships that had Full details of this action plan, and the 2014 effectiveness review and been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based on its assessment outcomes are set out on pages 69 and 70: for 2014, the Committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, all recommended the appointment of Anita Frew as Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Directors remained independent as to both character in place of David Roberts.
Ms Frew was also appointed as interim and judgement: and Board Risk Committee Chairman until 1 January 2015 when she was reviewed the role, including capabilities and time commitment, succeeded by Alan Dickinson: of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, oversaw the Boards arrangements for the longer-term succession of Non-Executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive and Executive Board and Committee members.
In particular, the Committee considered the impact of new is addressed as part of the ongoing review of Board composition limits placed on the number of directorships that can be held by each and takes account of the need to regularly refresh the intake of of the Directors.
Non-Executives to bring new, diverse perspectives to the Board and 74 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee members Appointed resigned Committee chairman Nick Luff 01 04 2013 Committee members Alan Dickinson 08 09 2014 Carolyn Fairbairn 01 06 2012 Anita Frew 01 12 2010 Simon Henry 26 06 2014 Nick Luff 05 03 2013 Nick Prettejohn 23 06 2014 Anthony Watson 06 05 2009 High quality internal and external audit Former Committee members are key to the Group.
This year, the Audit Lord Blackwell 02 04 2014 Committee has overseen a tender for the Dyfrig John 25 06 2014 external audit and the appointment of a David Roberts 14 05 2014 new head of internal audit.
Nick Luff Chairman, Audit Committee Audit Committee report Chairmans overview In recognition of the ongoing level of uncertainty of the ultimate level of redress payments and other costs relating to Payment Protection The Committee has met its key objectives and has carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual Insurance PPI, the Committee continued to spend considerable time each quarter reviewing the assumptions on which the cost provisions effectiveness review.
In addition, given the scale of the residential mortgage Following the publication of the new EU Directive in April 2014, the book for the Group, the Committee focused on impairment provisions Committee invited three professional services firms, including the for mortgages.
incumbent firm PwC, to tender for the external audit with effect The Committee also looked at other areas of significant judgement or from the 2016 year end.
The tender process involved an extensive complexity that are relevant to the financial statements.
These include and robust assessment of the three firms, details of which are set other conduct provisions, other loan impairments, deferred tax assets, out on page 70.
The assessment process was overseen by the hedging, actuarial assumptions for insurance and pension accounting, Audit Committee Chairman.
and the accounting for one-off transactions such as the sell down After careful consideration of the strength of each proposal, the Board of TSB.
accepted the recommendation from the Audit Committee to retain the The Committee continues to be satisfied with the activity, role and services of PwC.
Accordingly, subject to shareholders approval, PwC effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee oversaw the will be reappointed as Auditor.
process for the recruitment of the new Group Audit Director, Mary Hall.
Committee purpose and responsibilities Committee composition, skills and experience The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the Groups The Committee acts independently of the executive to ensure that the financial and narrative reporting arrangements, the effectiveness of the interests of the shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial internal controls and the risk management framework, whistleblowing reporting and internal control.
arrangements and each of the internal and external audit processes.
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors, The Audit Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its the majority with recent and relevant experience in finance and or responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all of which banking.
Nick Luff is a chartered accountant and has significant financial have been accepted during the year.
A full list of responsibilities is experience in the UK listed environment enabling him to fulfil the role of detailed in the Committees terms of reference, which can be found on Audit Committee Chair and for SEC purposes the role of Audit Committee our website at www.
Simon Henry joined the Board in June 2014 as a member of the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
Simon has extensive knowledge of financial markets, treasury and risk management and also qualifies as an Audit Committee Financial Expert under SEC rules.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 75 Governance Corporate governance report continued HOW THE AUDIT COMMITTEE SPENT ITS TIME IN 2014 Whistleblowing The Committee received and considered reports from management Financial reporting on the Groups whistleblowing arrangements including the line activity, As might be expected a key responsibility of the Committee is to review summaries of cases and ongoing reviews of the Whistleblowing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts, half yearly report and Governance Structure.
In doing so the Committee: reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that taken External audit as a whole, based on the information supplied to and challenged The Committee oversaw the relationship with the external auditor and by the Committee and on their judgement it is fair, balanced and considered the terms of engagement including remuneration, their understandable and advised the Board to that effect: effectiveness, their continued independence and their objectivity.
reviewed and challenged the going concern assessment undertaken In particular the Committee: by management: reviewed and challenged, where necessary, the actions, estimates and approved the annual audit plan including methodology and risk judgements of management, in relation to the interim and annual identification processes: financial statements.
This was undertaken through regular reporting on reviewed the findings of the external audit including key judgements ongoing litigation, conduct and regulatory matters affecting the Group, such as impairment and conduct provisions and the level of challenge detailed portfolio impairment reviews and a review of the approach to provided by the external auditor: PPI: and considered managements responsiveness to the auditors findings monitored, on an ongoing basis, the integrity of the financial and recommendations: statements of the Group and reviewed the critical accounting policies, considered the continued effectiveness of the audit process: and receiving regular reports on the detailed disclosure obligations and considered the external auditors performance, including technical changes in accounting requirements.
competence, strategic knowledge, quality control, capabilities, communication and reporting through the recent tender process Internal control and risk management see case study and an internal effectiveness questionnaire.
Full details of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process are given within the risk Auditor tenure management report on pages 107 to 170.
Specific matters that the PwC has been the auditor of Lloyds Banking Group since 1995 and prior Committee considered during the year included: to that PwC and its predecessor firms were also auditors to certain of the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial reporting the Groups predecessor companies.
After careful consideration the and risk management: Committee undertook a full tender exercise for the external audit of the extent of the work undertaken by the Finance teams across the the Group during the year and, in doing so, reviewed the qualifications, Group and considering the resources to ensure that the control expertise and resources of the tendering firms further details of the environment continued to operate effectively: and tender are set out as a case study on page 70.
The process culminated in a recommendation to reappoint PwC.
In accordance with regulations the the major findings of any internal investigations into control lead audit partner is subject to rotation with the next rotation due in 2016. weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements response along with any control deficiencies identified through the assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting under the Auditor independence and remuneration US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The The Audit Committee was satisfied that internal controls over financial Audit Committee has a comprehensive policy to regulate the use of the reporting were appropriately designed and operating effectively.
This policy sets out the nature of work that the external auditor may not undertake and guidance on the hiring of Group Audit former external audit staff.
In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the internal audit function and their audit programme the Committee: In some cases, PwC are selected over another service provider due to their detailed knowledge and understanding of the business.
Any monitored the effectiveness of Group Audit and their audit programme allowable non-audit services with a value above a defined fee limit require through quarterly reports on the activities undertaken in the period: prior approval from the Audit Committee Chairman.
The total amount approved the annual audit plan and budget and reviewed progress paid to the auditor in 2014 is shown in note 11 to the financial statements against the plan in detail at the half year including consideration of on pages 212 to 214.
The increase against the prior year largely relates to the audits that had been undertaken and in relation to the adequacy assurance services provided by PwC ahead of the Initial Public Offering of of resources within Group Audit and the standing of Group Audit in TSB in June 2014. the Group: considered the major findings of significant internal audits, and managements response: oversaw the process for recruitment of a new Group Audit Director, and approved the appointment of Mary Hall to the role: received the views of Group Audit on the reports submitted to the Committee to act as a check and balance on the information provided to the Committee: and reviewed thematic audits completed during the period e. g. embedding risk appetite, integrity of the Risk Management Framework, customer outcomes, corporate culture, business application and strategic risks.
76 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial reporting During the year, the Committee considered the following significant financial issues judgements in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management, Group Audit and the external auditor: KEY ISSUES JUDGEMENTS IN FINANCIAL AUDIT COMMITTEE REVIEW REPORTING AND CONCLUSIONS Payment Protection Insurance PPI The Audit Committee spent considerable time in 2014 challenging the assumptions made by management in determining the provision for PPI redress.
Determining the adequacy of the provision for redress payments in connection with mis-selling of PPI is highly judgemental and The key assumption that the Audit Committee focused on was future complaints requires the Group to make a number of assumptions, including volumes and associated operational costs.
Management used a combination the number of complaints that will be received in the future, of analyses to forecast future complaint volumes, including statistical modelling response rates to proactive mailings, uphold rates for complaints and customer surveys.
The Audit Committee challenged the appropriateness of received, average redress payments and related administrative these methods for forecasting complaint volumes, giving consideration to the costs.
total PPI policies sold by the Group.
Group Audit provided assurance to the Audit Committee that the process In the 2014 full year results, an additional provision of was undertaken in a controlled manner using reasonable, consistent and 2,200 million was reflected for expected PPI costs.
The provision supportable assumptions and inputs.
In 2014, the Audit Committee concluded brought the total amount set aside by the Group to cover PPI that the processes followed by management in determining the provision for costs to 12,025 million.
PPI redress were appropriate, although they will continue to monitor periodically as experience emerges.
The Audit Committee considered the appropriateness of disclosures in the News Release and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Audit Committee oversaw enhancements made to the PPI disclosure to include the total number of PPI policies remediated since 2000 and continued use of sensitivities reflecting the uncertainty that remains around the ultimate cost of PPI.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the PPI provision and disclosures were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to PPI are set out in note 40: Other provisions on page 248 of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee spent time understanding and assessing the adequacy Other conduct provisions of provision for other conduct related matters.
The Group has a number of other provisions for conduct related For derivatives mis-sold to SMEs, the Audit Committee understood the basis matters, all of which are judgemental and require the Group to for determining forecast average redress payments based on experience make a number of assumptions.
to date, and the adequacy of provisions made for operational costs for the In the 2014 full year results, further provisions were made for expected duration of the programme.
derivatives mis-sold to small and medium-sized enterprises More broadly, the Audit Committee challenged management on their SMEs, the Groups insurance branch business in Germany, processes and controls for ensuring that all conduct related matters were and a number of other smaller provisions across the divisions identified and that exposures and associated provisions were appropriately in relation to other conduct and compliance matters.
Group Audit independently reviewed and challenged the key estimates and assumptions of the Management in respect of the conduct provisions and confirmed that the methodology adopted for each provision and the individual processes were reasonable.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the provisions for other conduct matters were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to other conduct provisions are set out in note 40: Other provisions on page 248 of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee received regular reports in relation to impairment Allowance for impairment losses on loans and provisioning from management during 2014, presented by the divisions Credit receivables Risk Officers.
Determining the appropriateness of impairment losses is Key assumptions challenged by the Audit Committee included the criteria for judgemental and requires the Group to make a number of determining when a loan was impaired and whether any previous provisions assumptions.
were appropriate when these subsequently changed.
Group Audit performed work to assess the effectiveness of impairment governance and processes and reported their findings to the Audit Committee.
The audits considered whether management oversight, review processes and key judgements were adequately supported by quantitative analysis and detailed management information.
The work carried out by Group Audit considered the basis for adjustments and calibrations to model output results and found these to be reasonable and supported by observed performance.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 54: Financial risk management on page 293 of the financial statements.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 77 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets, in Recoverability of the deferred tax asset particular the forecast taxable profits based on the Groups five year operating The recoverability of the deferred tax asset in respect of carry plan and the split of these forecasts by legal entity and the likely impact of forward losses requires the consideration of the future levels of the Chancellor of the Exchequers December 2014 statement concerning the taxable profit in the Group.
restriction on banks ability to use their carry forward losses.
The Audit Committee agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax assets were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits, taking into account the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax are set out in note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements on page 199 and note 39: Deferred tax on page 247 of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee understood the uncertain tax positions of the Group, Uncertain tax positions The Group has a number of open tax matters which requires including the respective views of the Group and the relevant tax authorities.
The Audit Committee also understood the external advice obtained by the Group to make judgements as to the likely outturn for the purposes of calculating its tax position.
management to support the views taken by the Group.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the disclosures made in respect of uncertain tax positions were appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 50: Contingent liabilities and commitments on page 271 of the financial statements.
Retirement benefit obligations In the first half of 2014, the Group recognised a curtailment gain following the implementation of a freeze on pensionable pay for the Groups principal Determining the value of the defined benefit obligation is judgemental and requires the Group to determine a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
The gain was dependent on a number of assumptions, including an estimate of the proportion of then current members economic and non-economic actuarial assumptions.
who opt out of these schemes as a result of the freeze.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the gain and Annual Report and Accounts disclosures associated with the freeze on pensionable pay are appropriate.
As in previous years, the Audit Committee considered the assumptions underlying the calculation of the defined benefit assets and liabilities, in particular the discount rate applied to future cash flows.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the value and disclosures made in respect of retirement benefit obligations are appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 38: Retirement benefit obligations on page 240 of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee considered and challenged the calculation of the value Value-In-Force VIF asset and insurance liabilities of expected future net cash flows from currently in-force insurance contracts Determining the value of the VIF asset and insurance liabilities is and the liabilities arising from those contracts.
judgemental and requires the Group to determine a number of economic and non-economic actuarial assumptions, including The Audit Committee was satisfied that the value of the VIF asset and longevity, persistency, expenses, credit risk and illiquidity insurance liabilities were appropriate.
The disclosures are set out in note 25: premiums.
Value of in-force business on page 227 and note 35: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts on page 239 of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has discussed this matter previously and is satisfied that Adjustment to derivative valuations the disclosures set out in note 51 3 C to the financial statements on page 283 Determining the credit, debit and funding valuation adjustments are appropriate.
for uncollateralised derivative transactions is judgemental and requires management to assess whether model inputs, such as the creditworthiness of the derivative counterparty, are appropriate.
Two examples of one-off transactions considered by the Audit Committee One-off transactions during 2014 were the sales of TSB shares and the exchange of enhanced Determining the appropriate accounting for certain one-off capital notes for additional tier 1 securities.
transactions is judgemental and requires management to assess the facts and circumstances specific to each transaction.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that it remains appropriate for the Group to consolidate TSB.
Further information on liability management is set out below.
In the first half of 2014, the Group exchanged a proportion of its enhanced Liability management capital notes ECN for new additional tier 1 AT1 securities.
The Group Determining the loss recognised on exchanging a proportion of recognised a loss of 1,362 million on the transaction.
The AT1 securities are the Groups enhanced capital notes for additional tier 1 securities.
The Audit Committee considered the accounting loss arising on the exchange and the classification of the AT1 securities as equity and was satisfied that the disclosure set out in note 46: Other equity instruments on page 260 to the financial statements is appropriate.
78 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Committee members Appointed resigned Committee chairman Alan Dickinson 01 01 2015 Anita Frew 14 05 2014 31 12 2014 Committee members Lord Blackwell 01 06 2012 Alan Dickinson 08 09 2014 Anita Frew 01 12 2010 Simon Henry 26 06 2014 Dyfrig John 01 01 2014 Nick Luff 05 03 2013 I am pleased to report that the Groups Nick Prettejohn 23 06 2014 strategy and strong risk discipline Anthony Watson 01 12 2012 continues to build a safer, low risk bank.
Sara Weller 01 02 2012 Anita Frew Former committee members Chairman, Risk Committee Sir Winfried Bischoff 03 04 2014 14 May 31 December 2014 David Roberts 14 05 2014 Risk Committee report The continued embedding of a suitable risk culture is a critical Chairmans overview I am pleased to report the Board Risk Committee fulfilled its component of effective risk management and the Committee will continue to oversee managements efforts in this regard.
responsibilities and met its key objectives, whilst the annual Board effectiveness review concluded the Committee continued to operate Whilst the UK economy continued to recover in 2014, there remain effectively.
The Committee maintains an appropriate balance of its continued external challenges, for example lack of economic growth scheduled review of key risks, whilst maintaining a dynamic approach in the Eurozone and volatility such as oil prices.
so that emerging risks are appropriately escalated and considered and Notwithstanding these external challenges, I am pleased to report the management actions and plans are constructively challenged.
Groups strategy and risk discipline has led to a safer, low risk bank.
For example, through 2014 the Committee reviewed the Groups conduct strategy and reviewed the oversight and governance of the Groups approach to the capital and stress testing work.
banking, financial services and retail, who bring scrutiny and fresh Committee purpose, responsibilities and composition perspective to the risk management framework of the Group.
The Chief The purpose of the Board Risk Committee is to monitor: the Groups Risk Officer has full access to the Committee and attends the meeting.
compliance with the Group risk appetite as approved by the Board covering the extent and categories of risk which the Board regards as On 1 January 2015, Anita handed over the chair of the Board Risk acceptable for the company to bear: the Groups risk management Committee to Alan Dickinson.
Alan is a highly regarded retail and framework embracing principles, policies, methodologies, systems, commercial banker having spent 37 years with the Royal Bank of processes, procedures and people: and the Groups risk culture to ensure Scotland, most notably as Chief Executive of RBS UK.
that it supports the Groups risk appetite.
Full details of the Committees The Committee composition includes core banking and risk knowledge, responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which can be found together with the breadth that brings wider knowledge from other on our website at www.
sectors and a clear awareness of customer needs.
As a matter of practice and as a reflection of the importance attached to risk in the Group, all Committee composition, skills and experience Directors regularly attend the Board Risk Committee meetings, including The Chair of the Board Risk Committee, Anita Frew took over interim those Directors who are not members.
The Group Audit Director and the responsibility as Chairman of the Board Risk Committee from external auditor also attend Board Risk Committee meetings.
Anita has extensive board, financial and general management experience across a number of sectors, including banking.
Anita was supported on the Committee by Non-Executive Directors members who have a variety of industry backgrounds, including BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 79 Governance Corporate governance report continued Matters considered by the Board Risk Committee Risk Division Over the course of the year the Board Risk Committee considers a wide In overseeing the risk function within the Group the Committee: variety of aspects of risk across the Group.
Set out below is a summary reviewed the adequacy of the Risk Divisions resources, its authorities of the key matters that the Board Risk Committee considered in 2014, and standing within the Company.
The review scrutinised the Risk followed by an outline of the principal risks that were considered by Divisions annual plan, which sets out how the Risk Division will the Committee.
achieve clear outcomes from individual teams in a structured and measurable manner: and 11 10 1.
Conduct risk 19% 9 concluded that the Risk Division is adequately resourced and 8 1 2.
Consolidated risk report 15% continues to have sufficient authority and standing within the Group.
IT and cyber 14% This outcome further reflects the importance of risk management in the Group.
Divisional risk profiles 12% More information on the Groups approach to risk management 6 can be found on pages 108 and 109.
AML Group money 7% laundering report Risk principles and policy 5 The Committee has a key role in relation to the Groups Risk Principles 8.
Risk culture 5% and Policy Framework and in so doing: 9.
Macroeconomic update 2% 3 reviewed new and material amendments to the risk principles and 10.
Risk management framework 2% 4 policy framework, recommended by the Group Chief Executive and 11.
Other including regulatory 2% Chief Risk Officer: and update, credit risk and risk adjustments of performance oversaw adherence to Group risk principles, policies and standards and monitored any action taken resulting from material policy breaches.
HOW THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Consolidated risk report SPENT ITS TIME IN 2014 The Committee reviewed this report at each meeting.
It provides the Risk management Committee with a monthly summary of the main risks measure within The Committee considered the Groups approach to risk management, the business, providing supporting quantitative data and additional including the overall framework review and regulatory developments.
In commentary to inform the Committee in considering and challenging particular the Committee: managements assessment and future projected status of key risks against appetite.
considered the annual review of the Groups governance and internal control framework the Risk Management Framework which includes Divisional risk profiles the arrangements for the cascade of authority from the Board to its The Committee considered the risk profiles of the divisions of the Group Committees and the Group Chief Executive, and the status of the and in doing so: Groups risk governance and the Group policy frameworks.
The review concluded that the Groups Risk Management Framework is effective in reviewed the divisional risk enterprise wide risk management reviews design and the Groups corporate governance arrangements and the across the principle business areas: and policy framework are stable: considered the Insurance Divisional risk appetite to ensure that it was considered the approach and key findings of the annual control specifically relevant to the Insurance Division, its separate prudential effectiveness review see pages 69 and 70, before referring it to the needs, and the separate categories of risks that are relevant to the Audit Committee to review in conjunction with Group Audits control insurance business.
framework assessment: The insurance business has its own separate board and risk committee.
received reports and monitored the Groups approach to regulatory developments including the Banking Reform Act: and oversaw the Groups approach to managing culture with particular reference to risk culture within the context of the Risk Management Framework.
Risk appetite The Committee considered the Groups risk appetite.
In particular, the Committee: carried out the annual review of the Groups risk appetite.
The review considered the statements and risk appetite metrics under each category of identified risk: received regular detailed consolidated risk reports, analysis of the Groups performance against risk appetite and divisional risk profiles: monitored the embedding of risk appetite across the Group: and considered the Groups approach to Structural Hedging to ensure that the approach remained within risk appetite.
Further details on the Groups risk appetite can be found in the risk management section on pages 107 to 170.
80 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Significant risks considered by the Committee Set out below are some of the significant risks facing the company that were considered by the Committee in 2014.
Significant risks considered by the Committee Board Risk Committee review Conduct risk The Committee spent considerable time in 2014 reviewing reports at every meeting from management on conduct risk including reviews of prior conduct issues and regulatory investigations.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups conduct strategy and its embedded status including reports from Group Audit.
It received reports on sales processes and product governance, including the progress of annual product risk assessments, the results of outcome testing including mystery shopping results and complaint metrics, rewards and incentives.
Operational risk The Committee received regular updates across operational risk from both the business and the Risk Division, including incident management, advanced measurement, change, records management, and IT Resilience including cyber risk and financial crime.
In regards to IT resilience cyber risk, the Committee set the framework for, and oversaw, the response to an external review of IT resilience carried out in 2013 and considered the Groups exposure to cyber risk.
The Committee also discussed investment in incremental improvements in IT resilience and our cyber controls.
The Committee received two reports in the year from the Groups Money Laundering Reporting Officer along with detailed updates from the businesses on compliance with the Anti Money Laundering requirements.
Financial and market risk The Committee considered the controls in place for financial markets and reviewed the structural hedge risk appetite.
The Committee reviewed the liquidity and funding position including the stress testing analysis undertaken, and the Groups stress testing reports against internal and regulator driven economic scenarios, and their impact on the Groups plans.
The Committee was also heavily involved in the oversight and governance of the Groups approach to the capital and stress testing required by both the PRA and the EBA.
The Committee monitored the macro economic conditions as they affect the Group.
The Committee received regular updates on the macro economic conditions and risks from the Chief Economist, and considered these in its risk appetite and strategies.
Remuneration The Committee reviewed, ahead of the Remuneration Committee, the internal independent control functions risk assessments of the Group and its divisions, to ensure that the remuneration awards proposed clearly consider the observance of risk appetite and demonstration of appropriate risk management.
Regulatory developments The Committee received regular updates from management on regulatory developments and assessed the impact of those developments on the Groups risk profile and actions proposed by management.
Credit The Committee received regular updates through the consolidated risk report and divisional updates.
The Committee considered the Groups exposure to credit markets and the structural quality of new lending.
In addition, the Committee considered more detailed reports on focussed areas, including the Mortgage and Commercial portfolios.
Risk culture The Committee reviewed and debated a range of metrics and insights into risk culture within the firm, with the clear linkage to the conduct strategy, remuneration policies and wider Group strategy.
R isk Committee case study capital and stress testing The Sub-Committee met regularly to review and challenge the stress Background testing exercises and the recommendations of the independent review.
Stress testing is conducted to assess the Groups risk profile against In turn the Board Risk Committee received detailed reports to consider risk appetite and acts as a basis for discussion with the regulator for the the process and preliminary results in advance of the finalisation of each setting of the capital planning buffer.
The Board ensures that there is of the stress testing submissions.
continued direct Board level oversight of the Groups assumptions and results of the principal internal and regulatory stress testing exercises.
Controls Group Audits review of the process and controls used in the What the Risk Committee did PRA and EBA stress test exercises did not identify any material By way of example for the PRA and EBA stress testing exercises: control weaknesses.
Given the complexity and timescales for finalisation of each of the stress test exercises, the Board Risk Committee set up a Sub-Committee to Outcome oversee, on behalf of itself and the Board, the Groups detailed The Committee was satisfied with the results and recommended the assumptions and results for each exercise.
The Sub-Committee reported detailed submissions to each of the PRA and EBA to the Board.
the stress test outcomes to the Board Risk Committee and the full Board.
The Sub-Committee also commissioned an independent external review of the Groups approach to stress testing to identify enhancements.
Recommendations for the short and medium term have been appropriately actioned or incorporated into future plans.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 81
