OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Investor relations 147 Investor relations Shareholder services Substantial Shareholders Equiniti registrars Shareview service As at 14 May 2014, the Company had been notified of the following Shareholders who hold London Stock Exchange Group shares in certificated interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued share form or within Equiniti Investment Account or ISA can access Shareview.
capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FSAs Disclosure Shareview is a free service provided by our registrars, Equiniti.
It may be and Transparency Rules: accessed through the internet at www.
co. uk Borse Dubai Limited 20.6% By creating a Shareview portfolio, you will gain online access to Qatar Investment Authority 15.08% information about your London Stock Exchange Group shares and other investments including: Direct access to information held for you on the share register including share movements A daily indicative valuation of all investments held in your portfolio A range of information and practical help for shareholders.
To register at Shareview you will need your shareholder reference which can be found on your share certificate and you will be asked to select your own personal identification number.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
If you have any problems in registering your portfolio for the Shareview service, contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2544.
Calls to this number are charged at eight pence per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
For calls from outside the UK, contact Equiniti on 44 121 415 7047.
Please note that you should only use electronic addresses included in this Annual Report for the purposes expressly stated.
Groups share price service To obtain share price information for London Stock Exchange Group plc, see our website at: www.
com By clicking on the Investor Relations tab, you will find the Companys share price, historical closing prices and volumes and an interactive share price graph.
148 Shareholder information London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Investor relations contacts Investor Relations Registrar information London Stock Exchange Group plc Equiniti 10 Paternoster Square Aspect House London EC4M 7LS Spencer Road Lancing For enquiries relating to shareholdings in London Stock Exchange Group plc: West Sussex BN99 6DA Shareholder helpline: 44 0 20 7797 3322 T 0871 384 2544 or 44 0 121 415 7047 email: irinfo-r@lseg.
co. uk Visit the investor relations section of our website for up-to-date information including the latest share price, announcements, financial reports and details Chartered accountants and independent auditors of analysts and consensus forecasts  LLP www.
htm 7 More London Riverside London SE1 2RT Registered office London Stock Exchange Group plc Principal legal adviser 10 Paternoster Square Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP London EC4M 7LS 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y IHS Registered company number London Stock Exchange Group plc: 5369106 T 44 0 20 7936 4000 Corporate brokers Barclays 5 The North Colonnade Canary Wharf London E14 4BB T 44 0 20 7623 2323 www.
com Morgan Stanley & Co Limited 20 Bank Street Canary Wharf London E14 4AD T 44 0 20 7425 8000 www.
com Welcome to our annual report Who we are London Stock Exchange Group is a diversified international market infrastructure and capital markets business that sits at the heart of the worlds financial community.
The Group operates a broad range of international equity, bond and derivatives markets, including London Stock Exchange: Borsa Italiana: MTS, one of Europes leading fixed income markets: and Turquoise, the pan-European equities MTF.
Through its various platforms, the Group offers international businesses and investors unrivalled access to Europes capital markets.
Post trade and risk management services are a significant part of the Groups business operations.
LSEG operates CC&G, the Italian clearing house, and Monte Titoli, the European settlement business.
The Group is also a majority owner of leading multi-asset global clearing service, LCH.
The Group offers customers an extensive range of real time, reference data and news products, including SEDOL, UnaVista, Proquote and RNS, as well as access to over 250,000 international equity, bond and alternative asset class indices, through its world leading index provider, FTSE.
The Group is also a leading developer of high performance trading platforms and capital markets software for customers around the world.
Headquartered in London, with significant operations in Italy, France, North America and Sri Lanka, the Group employs approximately 2,900 people.
AIM, London Stock Exchange, the London Stock Exchange coat of arms device, NOMAD, RNS, Turquoise is a registered trade mark of Turquoise Global Holdings Limited.
SEDOL, SEDOL Masterfile, SETS, TradElect, UnaVista, and IOB are registered trade marks of London Stock Exchange plc.
Main Market, Specialist Fund Market, SFM and ORB, High Growth Segment, SwapClear, ForexClear and CDSClear are registered trade marks of LCH.
Professional Securities Market, PSM are trade marks of London Stock Exchange plc.
Clearnet is a trade mark of LCH.
Borsa Italiana, MTA, MIB, MOT, AGREX and IDEX are registered trade marks of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
Other logos, organisations and company names referred to may be the trade marks of IDEM is a trade mark of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.. CC&G is a trade mark of Cassa di Compensazione e their respective owners.
Garanzia S. p. A.. Monte Titoli S. p. A. and X-TRM are registered trade marks of Monte Titoli S. p. A.. Further information on London Stock Designed by Addison Group www.
net EuroMTS, MTS and BOND VISION are registered trade marks of Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Exchange Group can be found at: Board and Executive Committee photography by Proquote is a registered trade mark of Proquote Limited.
net and Nick Sinclair www.
com FTSE is a registered trade mark of subsidiaries of London Stock Exchange Group plc and is used by Printed in England by CPI Colour, CPI Colour is a certified CarbonNeutral company.
FTSE International Limited under licence.
London Stock Exchange Group plc 10 Paternoster Square MillenniumIT and Millennium Exchange are registered trade marks of Millennium Information Technologies Private Limited and MillenniumIT Software and NewClear are registered trade marks London EC4M 7LS of Millennium IT Software Private Limited.
Telephone 44 0 20 7797 1000 Millennium Surveillance and Millennium CSD are trade marks of MillenniumIT Software Private Limited.
Registered in England and Wales No.
5369106 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Delivering Growth Annual Report 31 March 2014 May 2014 London Stock Exchange Group plc 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LS Telephone 44 0 20 7797 1000 Registered in England and Wales No.
