78 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Report of the Risk Committee Risk Committee meeting attendance in the period ended 31 December 2014 Scheduled Ad hoc Total Stephen OConnor 2 2 1 1 3 3 Paul Heiden 2 2 1 1 3 3 Stuart Lewis 0 2 1 1 1 3 Andrea Munari 2 2 1 1 3 3 Composition and responsibilities The Committee is chaired by Stephen OConnor who provides recent and relevant financial and risk management experience through his career Stephen OConnor in a variety of senior executive roles in the financial industry.
In addition, Chairman of the Risk Committee the Board is satisfied that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its This report is intended to give an understanding of the role of responsibilities effectively.
The names, skill and experience of the members the Risk Committee in assisting the Board to full its oversight of the Risk Committee are provided on pages 62-63. responsibilities for risk management and the adequacy of the systems of internal controls in place to mitigate key risks.
Further details of who normally attends meetings and the Committees terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on an ongoing During the 9 month period ended 31 December 2014 the Committee met basis, are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate three times and oversaw the risk assessments and mitigating actions governance section of the Companys website at www.
related to the acquisition of the Frank Russell Company.
It also focused on the embedding of the frameworks, systems and tools to manage the Activities risks of the enlarged Group, on the development of a t for purpose Group The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters Risk Appetite Statements and the development and delivery of a new for which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate Group-wide counterparty risk reporting system.
During the Period the Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by reviewing the following: In order to avoid potential duplication of coverage and, more importantly, The reports on risk exposures of the Company and on emerging risks: to reduce the potential for non coverage of important risk matters, by either Review and recommendation to the Board of the Group Risk Appetite: the Audit or the Risk Committees, the Committee membership includes the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
To this effect, a combined Audit The development and implementation of the Companys Group-wide and Risk Committee meeting took place to ensure proper governance, counterparty risk aggregation and monitoring tool: risks and controls coverage of the Frank Russell Company acquisition The adequacy of proposed actions to mitigate certain risk exposures: proposal before the Committee members made their recommendation to the Board.
The effectiveness programme in place to further align the risk management framework of the Group and its subsidiaries: Priorities in the forthcoming year will be to oversee the embedding of the Regulatory compliance reports and the actions in place to ensure same risk management standards across all the Groups entities, with a ongoing compliance: focus on the recently acquired or created entities.
The Committee will maintain its focus on the monitoring of the risk culture of the Group.
The The effectiveness of the Groups Risk function: Committee will review, on a rotational basis, the risk prole of each of its The programme in place to consolidate Group risks including the risks main lines of business and key legal entities.
from the newly acquired Frank Russell Company business: Review of the pension plan management strategy: The adequacy of the treasury limits in the area of financial risk management and approved changes to the treasury policy: Stephen OConnor Papers on the potential impact of the regulatory requirements on the Chairman of the Risk Committee CCPs of the Group and related mitigating plans including a white paper 17 March 2015 on recovery and resolution: STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the Risk Committee 79 Compliance with the Group risk management procedures as described in the section on internal controls on pages 70-72: The adequacy of the Business Continuity Management plans and management programme: Recommendation by the Chairman to the Remuneration Committee on Executive performance related to risk culture awareness, transparency and accountability : and Review of the risk profile of two largest business areas, of LCH.
In addition to the three scheduled meetings, the Risk Committee held a special joint meeting with the Audit Committee to review the proposal to acquire Frank Russell Company before making its recommendation to the Board.
The meeting reviewed and commented on the due diligence process and findings, the strategic risks, the execution risks and the associated mitigating management actions plans.
During the course of the year, the Committee monitored the risks and the execution of the management action plans.
As part of its mandate, the Committee reviews, at least three times a year, the risk profile of the Group and comments on the adequacy of the processes in place to identify and report on key risks.
It also reviews the risk profile of the Groups subsidiaries and divisions on a rotational basis.
During the period it reviewed the LCH.
Clearnet and the FTSE risk profiles.
It also received reports on compliance with relevant regulatory requirements for each regulated entity of the Group.
The Board as a whole reviews the Group risk profile at least twice a year.
Risk Management function During the period, the Risk Management function continued embedding the Group Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework across all the Group subsidiaries and divisions through the monitoring of key risk indicators.
It also launched a programme of mandatory training for all the Groups employees.
The function is centralised at Group level with the exception of the CCPs where each clearing house has its own risk team in compliance with the EMIR requirements.
The Risk functions main role is to monitor the risk profile of the Group and of its subsidiaries and ensure it remains within risk appetite.
The function supports the Risk Committee members by providing reports on the Groups risk profile and timely escalation of exceptions.
It also monitors compliance with rules and regulations and develops and maintains frameworks to facilitate the identification, assessment, reporting and monitoring of all the key risks that could materially impact the reputation, financial position or operations of the Group.
Information provided by the Risk function informs the Committee on the risk culture of the Group.
The Risk Management function is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who oversees all aspects of risk management in the Group.
She reports to the Chief Executive Officer and, for independence purposes, to the Chairman of the Risk Committee.
The Committee must be consulted on the appointment or the dismissal of the Chief Risk Officer.
