56 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance The Corporate Governance Report which follows is intended to Diversity give shareholders an understanding of the Groups corporate I stated last year that the Board was focused on ensuring the balance of governance arrangements and how they operated during the its membership reflected diversity of experiences, business backgrounds, year ended 31 March 2014, including how the Group complied nationalities and gender, recognising the benefits this brings to the Group.
with the principles of the Code.
The Board appointments made during the year reflect this focus.
The female appointments also reflect the Boards ongoing commitment to strengthening Changes to the Board and succession planning female representation at Board level, including requesting headhunters to I and the Board have continued to work to ensure that the balance of skills ensure that a significant proportion of Board candidates are female.
and experience on the Board remains appropriate.
Board effectiveness During the financial year ended 31 March 2014, the Company made a number This year, the Board carried out an internal review of its own effectiveness.
of appointments to the Board.
Jacques Aigrain, Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet The process and findings are described on page 61.
Following this review, was appointed on the completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in I am satisfied that the Board continues to perform well.
Clearnet and confirmed by shareholders at the AGM on 18 July 2013.
Stuart Lewis, Stephen OConnor, Sherry Coutu CBE and Joanna Shields OBE Investor engagement were all appointed as Non-Executive Directors during the year following the Shareholder engagement and support remain central to our planning and engagement of external recruitment consultants.
A shortlist of candidates met thinking.
This was again particularly important in another year of corporate with the Chairman, Chief Executive and a selection of Non-Executive Directors.
We have a comprehensive investor relations programme, which is described in more detail elsewhere in the Corporate Governance Report.
Mr Lewis and Mr OConnor each have experience in credit and market The Board receives regular updates on shareholder feedback at each of risk and their appointments reflect the significant and growing proportion its meetings so that it is aware of shareholders views and concerns.
of the Groups overall business that post trade and risk management Shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet with the Senior now represent.
Additionally, both Ms Coutu and Ms Shields have broad Independent Director, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee international management experience and, in particular, deep knowledge and the Chairman, as appropriate.
of the information technology sector, reflecting the Groups continued focus on delivering innovative technology solutions to its customers around the world, as well as its ongoing commitment to supporting entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized businesses SMEs to find appropriate and sustainable financing solutions.
The collective experience of our new Non-Executive Directors deepens the overall skills, experience and diversity Chris Gibson-Smith of the Board.
Confirmation of each of their appointments will be sought at Chairman this years AGM.
Baroness Janet Cohen, Sergio Ermotti and Gay Huey Evans have stepped down from the Board.
The Board is grateful to each of them for their contribution.
Board focus The Board has continued to oversee the Groups strategy, risk framework, financial performance and Board succession planning.
Further detail on matters considered by the Board can be found on page 58.
The Board has also continued its programme of visiting its overseas businesses and meeting local management.
The Board carried out a trip to Milan the main office of Borsa Italiana in September and March to hold its regular meetings and meet with customers and stakeholders.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 57 Corporate governance report Key matters reserved to the Board Complying with the provisions of the Code The Board maintains a list of matters reserved to it, including: The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance Strategy and Responsibility for the overall oversight of and business integrity in all of its activities.
Throughout the year ended Management the Group, including approval of the Groups 31 March 2014, the Company has complied with all provisions of the long-term objectives and commercial strategy UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, other than for a period Approval of the Groups annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any following the resignations of Sergio Ermotti and Gay Huey Evans when material changes the Remuneration Committee comprised two Independent directors and Review of performance in light of the the Chairman.
Sherry Coutu has since the year end been appointed to Groups strategy, objectives, business plans the Committee.
and budgets Contracts Approval of significant acquisitions The Code sets out guidance in the form of main principles and more specific and disposals provisions for good governance in relation to Board leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The Code Structure and Capital Changes relating to the Groups capital applies to all companies with a premium listing of equity shares in the UK structure and major changes to the Groups and requires companies to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have corporate structure applied its main principles and whether they have complied with all relevant Financial reporting Approval of financial statements provisions throughout the year.
Where the relevant provisions have not and Controls been complied with, companies must provide an explanation for their Internal controls Ensuring maintenance of a sound system non-compliance.
Further information on the UK Corporate Governance Code of internal control and risk management can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, at www.
This Corporate Governance Report forms part of the Corporate Governance Board membership Ensuring adequate succession planning Statement on pages 98 and 99 of the Directors Report.
and other for the Board and senior management appointments Appointments to the Board, following recommendations by the Nomination Board of Directors Committee Role of the Board The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group and is Remuneration Determining the remuneration of the responsible to shareholders for achieving the Groups strategic objectives Non-Executive Directors, subject to the articles of association and shareholder and delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Directors act in a way approval, as appropriate they consider will promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole, with regard to the interests of the Groups Undertaking a formal review annually of Corporate Governance employees, the impact of the business on the community and environment its own performance, that of its committees and individual directors and determining the and the interests of stakeholders.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of independence of directors matters specifically reserved to it.
Key matters reserved to the Board are set out in the table opposite.
The Board also views the brands and reputations of its subsidiaries as important assets of the Group and accordingly protection of the brand and reputation of the Group and its subsidiaries, including ensuring that subsidiaries continue to meet local regulatory requirements, is also a key part of the Boards role.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the running and leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive has delegated authority from, and is responsible to, the Board for managing the Companys business with the power for further delegation in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective running and management of the business.
The current key responsibilities of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive are set out on page 59.
58 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Matters considered by the Board in FY2014 Each meeting Annually Throughout the year Reports from the Chief Executive on performance Health and safety Monitoring the progress of integrating LCH.
Clearnet in each of the business areas, together with Risk, into the Group Regulation, Legal, HR and Strategy Reports from the Chief Financial Officer on the Three Year Business Plan and Discussion and approval of Group strategy financial performance and position of the Group, annual Budget investor relations activity and Treasury matters Updates from the Board committees Off-site strategy day Detailed consideration and approval of the acquisition by Borsa Italiana of a majority stake in EuroTLX SIM S. p. A. FCAs risk mitigation programme together Considering the LSEG Balance Sheet and changes to the with a presentation by the FCA Groups Financial Risk Model Evaluation of Board Effectiveness Discussion on the implementation of the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework and related policies Review of independence of Directors Approval of the Group Risk Register and Risk Appetite pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code Review of quarterly financial forecasts and funding of acquisitions Executive and Non-Executive succession planning, including the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors Presentations on the Groups approach to risk management in current financial markets Review and approval of full year and interim results and quarterly IMS prior to market release Discussion and approval of the change of the Groups accounting reference date to 31 December STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 59 Key responsibilities Board meeting attendance in the year ended 31 March 2014 Chairman Acts as an independent Non-Executive Director and chairs the Board Scheduled Ad hoc Strategy Day Total of the Company: Chris Gibson-Smith 6 6 3 3 1 1 10 10 Xavier Rolet 6 6 2 3 1 1 9 10 Forges an effective Board as to composition, skills and competencies: Raffaele Jerusalmi 6 6 3 3 1 1 10 10 Ensures, in collaboration with the Chief Executive, that the Board 1 David Warren 6 6 3 3 1 1 10 10 considers the strategic issues facing the Company in a timely manner Paolo Scaroni 6 6 3 3 0 1 9 10 and is presented with sound information and analysis appropriate to Paul Heiden 6 6 2 3 1 1 9 10 the decisions that it is asked to make: Andrea Munari 6 6 2 3 1 1 9 10 Acts as a sounding board for the Chief Executive and provides general Massimo Tononi 5 6 2 3 1 1 8 10 advice relating to the management and development of the Companys Robert Webb 5 6 2 3 1 1 8 10 business: and 1 Jacques Aigrain 6 6 3 3 1 1 10 10 2 Supports the commercial activities of the Company by, inter alia, Stephen OConnor 5 5 2 3 1 1 8 9 maintaining contact with the Companys key stakeholders and 2 Stuart Lewis 4 5 2 3 0 1 6 9 maintaining dialogue with other industry participants.
3 Joanna Shields OBE 1 2 1 1 2 3 3 Sherry Coutu CBE 2 2 1 1 3 3 Chief Executive Directors who left the Board Formulates the strategic direction of the Company and periodically in the year 31 March 2014 agrees this with the Board: 4 Sergio Ermotti 2 2 1 3 3 5 4 Ensures proper financial and business control is exercised within Baroness Janet Cohen 2 2 1 3 3 5 4 the Company: Gay Huey Evans 1 2 2 3 3 5 Chairs the Executive Committee: 1 Joined the Board on 1 May 2013.
3 Joined the Board on 17 January 2014.
Ensures there is a clear management structure with appropriately 4 Left the Board on 18 July 2013. delegated responsibilities staffed by suitably experienced and When arranging meetings on short notice, every attempt is made to qualified staff: accommodate Directors diaries: however, inevitably, not all Directors are Ensures appropriate reporting and communication systems are able to attend all such meetings.
The majority of meetings where Directors established across the Company: have been unable to attend were the three additional meetings called on short notice.
Ensures key performance objectives are set for all operational departments, action plans and budgetary controls are established and, When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conflicts in where necessary, corrective action is taken to maximise the performance their schedule, they received and reviewed papers to be considered at the of the Company: relevant meeting.
Where they had comments or concerns on the matters to Ensures the Companys strategy and values are effectively understood be discussed, they provided these to the Chairman of the Board or Committee and applied by management and staff: and in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board engages with Directors between Board meetings to discuss business and strategic issues.
Ensures an appropriate risk management framework is in operation.
Board and Committee meetings in FY2014 The Board held six scheduled meetings, three additional meetings on short notice and a dedicated off-site strategy day.
On a number of occasions throughout the year, the Chairman met Non-Executive Directors without the presence of Executive Directors.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Executive Directors at the start of each Board meeting to discuss the business of that meeting and other issues.
Throughout the year, the Chairman also met with Non-Executive Directors individually to discuss business-related matters.
60 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the Company in It is likely that the Board will continue to include Non-Executive Directors with respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office and execution of their current or recent experience in financial markets, as the Board believes it powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company maintained a Directors benefits from this expertise.
The Board also believes that the Group benefits and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the year ended 31 March from having directors with a mixture of tenures and backgrounds.
This policy covers the Directors for any such liabilities in respect of which they are not indemnified by the Company and, to the extent to which The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are independent it has indemnified the Directors, also covers the Company.
This insurance in character and judgement.
In assessing each Director, the Board considered cover has been renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, provides cover for a Director in the event that the Director is proved to have or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
The Code requires a company to state its reasons if it determines that a Board balance and independence director is independent in certain circumstances, including where a director There is a strong non-executive element on the Board, and the Non-Executive indirectly has a material business relationship with the Company as a director Directors provide deep corporate experience and knowledge which they apply of a body that has such relationship with the Company, or has had in the to their understanding of the Group and its strategy.
last three years, and where a director has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board considers that the Directors possess a strong range of business experience and that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience given Jacques Aigrain is currently Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet the Groups increasing diversification, scale and reach.
The Board considers Group is a non-wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with whom the that the appropriate balance of skills and experience is best achieved by Company has a material business relationship.
Mr Aigrain brings vast balancing continuity of experience and new joiners and also by drawing experience in the area of post trade which greatly assists the Board.
Following Directors from a wide range of backgrounds, including in the financial the departure of LCH.
Clearnet Groups CEO, Ian Axe, Mr Aigrain was appointed markets in which the Group operates, and in broader business.
as Executive Chairman from October 2013 to 3 February 2014.
During this period Mr Aigrain did not participate in the Companys Executive Committee.
It was felt that Mr Aigrains appointment to this role on a temporary basis was Non-Executive Director Changes the best way to manage any risks following Mr Axes departure.
Any potential The following changes have taken place over the past 12 months: conflicts of interest arising as a result of Mr Aigrains appointment to the the appointment of Jacques Aigrain Non-Executive Director on Board are governed by the terms of a conflicts memorandum of 1 May 2013: understanding between LCH.
the appointment of Stuart Lewis and Stephen OConnor Andrea Munari was, until 31 December 2013, employed by Intesa San Paolo, Non-Executive Directors on 12 June 2013: which is a customer of the Group.
While the Company values its relationship the appointment of Sherry Coutu CBE and Joanna Shields OBE with Intesa as a customer, given the size of Intesa, it is believed that Intesas Non-Executive Directors on 17 January 2014: and relationship with the Company and its subsidiaries is not material to Intesa.
The Board benefits greatly from Mr Munaris current experience in financial the resignation of Baroness Janet Cohen, Sergio Ermotti and markets and the Risk Committee also benefits from Mr Munaris experience Gay Huey Evans Non-Executive Directors on 18 July 2013. of risk in a financial services company.
Stuart Lewis is employed by Deutsche Bank AG, which is a customer of the Group.
While the Company values its relationship with Deutsche Bank, it is believed that Deutsche Banks relationship with the Company and its subsidiaries is not material to Deutsche Bank.
Additionally, given his role as Chief Risk Officer, Mr Lewis does not work in an area of Deutsche Bank which has customer relationships with the Group.
Stephen OConnor was, until June 2013, employed by Morgan Stanley, which is a customer of the Group.
While the Company values its relationship with Morgan Stanley, it is believed that Morgan Stanleys relationship with the Company and its subsidiaries is not material to Morgan Stanley.
In particular, in the case of Mr Lewis and Mr OConnor, following the acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet, the Board believes it is important to have members who have current or recent experience in credit and market risk.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 61 Robert Webb has served on the Board since 2001.
The Board considers Board development that an individuals independence cannot be determined arbitrarily on Each new Director joining the Board is provided with an induction programme the basis of a particular period of service.
The Board also benefits from covering the key business areas of the Group.
Directors are provided with key his experience and knowledge resulting from the length of his service as documents including strategy documents, past Board papers, an overview well as his wider business experience.
of the business, including the regulatory framework within which the Group operates, and information on directors responsibilities under the Listing In line with the Code, all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Additionally, Directors meet with executives from throughout the Group to better understand each of the business areas together with the Directors who retired during the year Groups governance and financial and legal framework.
Directors have access Baroness Janet Cohen and Sergio Ermotti, who each retired from the to independent professional advice if they judge it necessary to fulfil their Board on 18 July 2013, were considered by the Board to be independent responsibilities as directors.
Baroness Janet Cohen had served on the Board since 2001 and Mr Ermotti was CEO of UBS Group, which is a customer of the Directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and knowledge Group.
Given the size of UBS and the large number of markets in which it of the business, and briefings are given at Board meetings on particular parts operates, its relationship with the Company is not material to UBS.
During the year, the Board also continued its practice of case of Baroness Janet Cohen, as set out previously, the Board considers undertaking formal visits to its overseas businesses so that the Directors can that an individuals independence cannot be determined arbitrarily on the experience first-hand key aspects of the Groups operations.
basis of a particular period of service.
Conflicts of interest Board effectiveness and leadership The articles of association allow the Board to authorise conflicts of interest The Board carried out an internal review of its own effectiveness and that of that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The Board has carried out effectiveness reviews The Company has established procedures whereby actual and potential since 2005 and has acted on the results of each review.
conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new Director and new conflicts are The evaluation process was conducted by the Group Company Secretary dealt with.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made using a detailed questionnaire.
The review also included a separate by non-conflicted Directors and, in making such decision, the Directors must assessment of the Chairmans performance with feedback provided to act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Chairman.
Potential conflicts of interest arising as a result of Jacques Aigrains appointment to the Board are governed by the terms of a The results of the review were used to highlight areas of strength and weakness, conflicts memorandum of understanding between LCH.
Clearnet Group and assist in consideration of the future development of the Board, its Committees the Company.
The Board believes that, during the year ended 31 March 2014, and its individual directors and further improve their performance.
Further to the discussions arising out of the 2013 review, the Board identified Board Committees that the key area for Board development was ensuring that it had appropriate The Company ensures that all Committees are provided with sufficient skills to govern a more diversified Group which included a greater number of resources to undertake their duties.
All Committees have written terms post trade assets.
The Board recruited members with experience in risk and of reference which are available from the corporate responsibility section clearing Mr Aigrain, Mr Lewis and Mr OConnor together with information on the Companys website at www.
com or on request from the Group technology Ms Coutu and Ms Shields.
The Board also constituted separate Company Secretary.
Audit and Risk Committees previously combined to reflect an even greater focus on risk.
The Board has also received regular updates and training in Remuneration Committee relation to CCP risks.
Given these substantial changes during the year, the Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in a separate 2014 board effectiveness review concluded that the Board, its Committees Remuneration Report on pages 70-97. and its individual directors were working effectively and did not identify any significant issues.
The Board will continue to evaluate its effectiveness Audit Committee annually and address any actions.
Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in a separate Audit Committee Report on pages 66-68.
Risk Committee Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in a separate Risk Committee Report on page 69.
Nomination Committee Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in a separate Nomination Committee Report on page 65.
62 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Risk Management and Internal Control Under the matrix structure, lines of responsibility have been clearly defined The Board has overall responsibility for the risk management framework and an appropriate framework of delegated authorities is in place.
The Group and for ensuring that management maintains an adequate system of continues to monitor the functioning of and implement improvements to its internal control appropriate for the Groups business and the risks to which risk management framework to ensure it is fit for purpose for its new size and it is exposed.
The Audit Committee and the Risk Committee assist the Board current ambitions.
in discharging this responsibility by reviewing and assessing the Groups risk framework, systems of internal controls and risk management process.
Risk management framework The Company has implemented a three lines of defence governance model.
The risk management process is governed by a Board-approved EnterpriseUnder this model, executive management is the first line of defence and is wide Risk Management Framework, which was implemented last year.
responsible for designing, operating and monitoring the system of internal Executive management is accountable for risk identification, analysis, controls.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage the business evaluation, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in its area within the within the Boards risk appetite rather than eliminate the risk of failure to framework established by the Board.
A combined bottom-up and top-down achieve the Groups objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not risk management approach is adopted, with risks identified at a business absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, fraud or breaches unit, divisional and Group level.
Divisional and legal entity risk profiles are of laws and regulations.
reviewed by the Risk Committees of the Executive Committee and the Groups consolidated risk profile is reviewed by the Executive Committee and reported Risk management and compliance constitute the second line of defence to the Risk Committee three times a year.
In FY14, it was reviewed by the and define the risk management framework to keep the business activities Risk Committee twice, as the committee was only established in September.
within the Groups risk appetite.
Finally, the internal audit function provides It was also reviewed once by the Audit and Risk Committee before the change the independent assurance on controls, risk and governance as the third line in committee structure.
The Group risk profile is reviewed by the Board at least of defence.
The system of internal controls is amended as appropriate in every six months following an updated assessment of the risk management response to changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
The key process by both the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
elements of the Groups systems of internal controls are described below.
Each Group risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee, who is Further detail on the Groups risk management oversight can be found at responsible for managing or mitigating the risk to a level within the Groups pages 44-47. risk appetite.
Executive Committee members present their divisions risk management processes and latest risk registers to the Risk Committee every Organisational structure six months on a rotational basis.
On a semi-annual basis, a divisional internal The day-to-day running of the Group is managed by an Executive Committee, control and risk management self-certification process is also performed.
which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Group operates a Each business unit is required to confirm that it is in compliance with the matrix structure designed to optimise resource allocation and organisational Groups policies and governance procedures.
Any exceptions are reported capacity.
Each Executive Committee member is responsible for one of the to the Audit Committee and to the Risk Committee.
Internal audit provides Groups operating divisions or a major area of strategic importance and each regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness legal entity is responsible for engaging with local regulators and ensuring of the Groups system of internal controls and the Groups risk framework.
The Executive Committee meets regularly to review business and financial performance, risk exposure and to approve key An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group is provided decisions.
The Executive Committee is supported by three main committees: on pages 48-53.
The Financial Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer which is responsible for monitoring the financial risk exposure, including liquidity and counterparty risks of the Company and to make recommendations to the Executive Committee and to the Risk Committee for changes to its risk appetite or limits.
The New Product and Market Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, which is responsible for the review of proposals to launch new products or expand its activities into new markets.
The Operational Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer, monitors the adequacy of the controls in place to manage key operational risks across the Group.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 63 Risk Appetite Policies and procedures The Board sets an overall risk appetite for the Group for each of its risk A framework of Group policies and procedures has been established for all categories Strategic, Financial and Operational and also in six strategic aspects of the Groups activities, supplemented by additional local policies risk objectives see page 45 for further information on the strategic risk where appropriate.
The policies are reviewed and updated on an ongoing objectives.
The Risk Appetite Framework RAF is used to delegate the basis, or at least once a year, to reflect changes in the Groups risk profile Group Appetite down to the Groups component businesses.
Key policies are emphasised in the employee induction of the business is expected to manage its exposures within risk appetite process and regularly reinforced through targeted training.
Financial Risks The Group defines an overall risk appetite as part of the execution of the Comprehensive financial reporting and review procedures are in place, strategic business plan of LSEG while achieving its strategic risk objectives with financial and key performance indicators reviewed against operational see page 45 : budgets on a monthly basis at a group, divisional and business unit level.
The CFO monthly management report used by the Executive Committee is Strategic Risk shared with the Group Board and any key issues are reviewed at each Board The Group acknowledges that strategic risks could be driven by external meeting.
Investment opportunities are evaluated following a clearly defined factors over which the Group may have limited influence.
As a result, the investment appraisal process.
The Financial Risk Committee and the New Group may have to accept the risk exposure.
The Group will manage these Products and Market Committee, during the year, oversaw the risks related risks in order to provide the best risk reward option, while minimising the to entering new markets, treasury, capital, investments and counterparty downside impact.
The CCP counterparty, investments, and liquidity risks are also overseen by each CCPs own board and risk committees.
As part of its remit, the Financial Risk Financial Risk Committee oversees the activities of the Groups Treasury The Group has limited appetite to undertake activities which may impact the function through its Treasury Committee, which is chaired by the Chief delivery of its financial plan, or affect its ability to meet its liquidity, regulatory Financial Officer.
The Treasury Committee operates within Board approved capital or contractual requirements under extreme but plausible market stress policy and meets regularly to review the management of the Groups credit, scenarios.
The Board has no appetite to breach the regulatory requirements market and liquidity risks.
Further details on financial risk management are set out for the management of CCP financial risks.
Group concentration limits provided in note 2 to the accounts.
will respect each CCPs own limits and will be monitored accordingly.
Operational Risk Operational Risks The Group manages and monitors operational risks through the setting of risk The Group will maintain a governance framework and an effective system appetite, clear definition of roles and responsibilities, policies and procedures, of internal controls to mitigate its operational risks within its risk appetite and through reporting of exposures.
The Group has in place an Operational limit.
The Group has zero risk appetite for unethical behaviour.
Risk Committee which is responsible for monitoring the Groups operational risk exposure, including controls that could have an impact on financial reporting, and ensuring risks remain within appetite.
The Group has in place key operational controls strategies that are overseen by the Business Continuity Committee and Technology project committees.
These committees meet on a regular basis and ensure the business continuity programmes and the change management approach are aligned with industry best practice and are fit for purpose for the operations of the Group and of its subsidiaries.
Further details on operational risks are provided in note 2 to the accounts.
64 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Regulatory monitoring The IR function, reporting to the CFO, is responsible for planning and Regulatory and compliance risks in the markets in which the Group operates executing the IR programme and day-to-day contact with the market.
are monitored by local compliance functions.
These regulatory teams work The CEO and CFO engage with investors, through meetings and presentations, closely with the FCA and the Bank of England in the UK, CONSOB and Banca to discuss strategy, performance and other matters.
The Chairman, dItalia in Italy, ACPR and the Banque fide France in France, the CFTC in the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee USA and other regulators in countries where we operate.
The compliance are also available to meet major investors, particularly to discuss corporate functions are managed independently from the customer facing business governance and remuneration, as required.
Over the past year, senior units and report on a regular basis to the Group Risk Committee and to local management and the IR team held more than 280 meetings and calls and Group Boards.
with shareholders and potential investors from around the world.
Internal audit The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, The Internal Audit function provides reliable, objective and reasonable including market expectations of financial performance, share register assurance to management, Audit Committee members, Risk Committee composition and feedback from major investors.
Sell-side analyst research members and Group Board members on the adequacy and effectiveness notes are circulated to the Board following publication.
The Groups corporate of the system of internal controls, the governance model and the risk brokers and a specialist IR advisory firm provide the Board with advice on management framework in place to manage risks within the Groups risk shareholder relations and share register analysis.
The AGM provides the appetite and achieve the Groups business objectives.
As a third line of opportunity for all shareholders to meet Directors and to put questions defence, the function has no operational responsibilities over the entities to the Board, and the procedures for the AGM are compliant with the UK processes that it reviews.
Voting at the AGM is by way of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
The independence of the internal audit function is achieved through the following means: The Investor Relations section of the Groups website, www.
com, the Group Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the is the primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
Audit Committee of the Board and to the CFO for administrative Annual and interim reports and accounts, interim management statements, matters and has direct access to the Chairman of the Board: news releases, presentations and other documents are available on the website together with a list of analysts producing research on the Company the Audit Committee must be consulted on the appointment and a summary of analysts forecasts of performance.
Presentations of or the dismissal of the Group Head of Internal Audit: and preliminary and interim results are accessible by all shareholders via the Audit Committee approves the annual budget for internal audit.
webcasts in real time and also via replay for a period after the event.
Conclusion The Board confirms that, through the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee, it has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
The Board is satisfied that the risk management process and system of internal controls conform with the 2005 FRCs Internal Control Guidance to Directors formerly known as the Turnbull guidance.
Relations with shareholders The Company conducts a comprehensive Investor Relations IR programme, ensuring regular contact with existing and potential shareholders, together with sell-side analysts that produce investment research relating to the Group.
The IR programme typically consists of meetings, calls, presentations and information releases on a regular basis throughout the year, based around the Groups financial reporting calendar and following major corporate events and news flow.
