74 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Report of the Audit Committee The Committee discussed the status of the project for the implementation of a new Group-wide financial system and the selection process for the third-party system integrator.
The Committee discussed in detail a review of the Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
An annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was performed during the year.
Input for this came from the Audit Committee members, the Board Chairman, the Group Chief Financial officer, the Group Chief Risk officer and the Group Head of Internal Audit and the previous external auditors PwC.
The review concluded that Paul Heiden the Committee is fullling its duties adequately and highlighted areas Chairman of the Audit Committee for further discussion by the Committee such as: Frequency of the Audit Committee meetings This report is intended to give an understanding of the role of Duration of meetings and time allocated to various issues the Audit Committee in assisting the Board to full its oversight responsibilities for the monitoring of the system of internal Priorities in the forthcoming year will include: controls and the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
Receiving assurance that the control environment remains robust to support the continued growth and diversication of the Groups activities.
During the Period, in addition to its normal agenda, the Committee focused on the key following activities: Monitoring the implementation of the actions resulting from the The Group changed external auditors in 2014 following a tender process.
comprehensive review of the investment business of the Frank The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the tender process, Russell Company including the sale of the investment management governance and selection criteria and was also directly involved in business and the integration of the index business with the existing the selection process.
As a result of the exercise, the Audit Committee FTSE platform.
recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP EY be appointed as Monitoring the controls over the major projects of the Group including the Groups external auditor.
Such appointment of EY took place shortly the implementation of the new global finance system and the after the completion of the audit of LSEGs consolidated accounts for the development of new businesses.
year ended 31 March 2014 by  LLP PwC, and the appointment of EY was recommended to shareholders for approval Continuing to monitor the progress of the control synergies between at the Annual General Meeting in July 2014.
The Committee discussed LSEG and LCH.
and agreed the EY audit plan and the transition arrangements between Monitoring the impact of the Groups acquisitions on financial PwC and EY.
Since the appointment, the Committee has established a and tax accounting.
productive working relationship with the new auditors.
Monitoring the management of the pension schemes of London The Committee closely monitored the acquisition process of the Frank Stock Exchange plc and LCH.
Russell Company, including the review of: the establishment of the nancing structure, the financial analysis of the transaction, and the Reviewing the results of an independent external quality assessment cash ow forecasts.
The Audit Committee also examined and discussed of the Internal Audit function.
the risks of the transaction to the Group and the risk mitigation actions.
The Committee actively challenged the assumptions made by the Group Executive management, Finance, Treasury and the external consultants and banks involved in the transaction.
The Committee continued to monitor the alignment of the control environment of recent acquisitions with the Group internal Paul Heiden control framework.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee reviewed reports on Cyber-security and Business 17 March 2015 Continuity Management.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the Audit Committee 75 Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee have each previously held various executive management roles in financial 1.
The skills and experience of each Committee member are The Committee recommends the financial statements of the Group to the provided in the Board of Directors section on pages 62 and 63.
Board, including the annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial The Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of performance, reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements that Internal Audit, Group Chief Risk Officer and the external auditors are standing they contain.
invitees to all Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, various other members of management are invited from time to time to present specific matters 2.
Internal controls and risk management systems relevant to the Committees remit.
The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
In order to do this, the Committee The Group Head of Internal Audit meets privately with the Committee considers reports from management and the internal audit function.
The at each Committee meeting without management being present.
Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems Attendance at Audit Committee meetings in the period April to and recommends to the Board the statements to be included in the annual December 2014: report concerning internal controls and risk management in collaboration with the Risk Committee.
Scheduled Ad hoc Total Paul Heiden 3 3 2 2 5 5 The Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Jacques Aigrain 3 3 2 2 5 5 internal audit function, ensuring that it has adequate resources and Massimo Tononi 3 3 2 2 5 5 appropriate access to information to perform its function independently from executive management.
Sharon Bowles and Stephen OConnor joined the Audit Committee after the end of the Period.
External auditors The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor and meets In addition to the meetings listed above, there was a combined Audit and with the external auditor at the start of each Committee meeting, without Risk Committee session in which the members of the committees considered management being present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising in detail the results of due diligence on the Frank Russell Company including from their audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets with the receiving presentations from external advisers.
external auditor for the year-end and half-year review of the accounts.
The Committee reviews and approves the annual audit plan, ensures that it is Further details on the functioning of the Audit Committee can be found in consistent with the Committees view of the scope of the audit engagement the Committees terms of reference which are reviewed annually and available and reviews the quality of the findings of the audit with the external auditor.
from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance section The Committee monitors and reviews the objectivity and independence of of the Groups website at www.
The Committee ensures that the external audit services contract is put out to tender on a periodic basis in line with existing best Activities in the period April December 2014 practices.
The Committee oversees the selection process for new auditors The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters and if an auditor resigns the Committee investigates the issues leading to for which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate this and decides whether any action is required.
The agenda for each meeting was determined by the key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, the risks identified by the Committee 4.
Other matters and the standing items under its terms of reference.
During the period, the Treasury Committee discharged its responsibilities as set in its terms of reference by The Committee approves the taking of any actions which fall outside the performing the following: Group Treasury Policy and considers material financing and treasury transactions reserved for the Board ahead of review by the Board.
Financial matters: Reviewed and approved key accounting judgements Whistleblowing and fraud The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise Reviewed and approved the half-year and full period financial results concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting Discussed and approved the annual review for goodwill impairment or other matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate Reviewed and discussed managements view of commitments and follow up action.
The Committee also reviews the Groups procedures for contingencies and the adequacy of the proposed disclosures detecting fraud and for the prevention of bribery.
Reviewed and discussed the shareholder documentation for the acquisition of the Frank Russell Company Composition and meetings The Committee meets the requirements of the UK Code.
It is comprised of five independent Non-Executive Directors who all bring recent and relevant financial experience.
It is chaired by Paul Heiden who is a qualified chartered accountant with a career in a variety of senior finance roles.
The other members are Jacques Aigrain, Massimo Tononi, Sharon Bowles and Stephen OConnor.
Sharon was appointed to the Committee on 26 February 2015 and Stephen was appointed on 4 March 2014.
Jacques, Massimo and Stephen 76 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Internal controls: Significant Reviewed compliance with the UK governance code internal controls judgements for April including whistleblowing at half year and year end December 2014 How the Committee reviewed these matters Deferred Tax Liabilities The Audit Committee discussed correction entries to Reviewed updates on internal audit plans be made for the current and prior comparative years Approved the 3 year internal audit plan 2014-2017 relating to the adjustment of deferred tax liabilities on some of the Groups previous acquisitions.
These Reviewed reports on the performance of internal audit corrections were agreed with EY.
The overall result was to increase goodwill by 190 million, increase the deferred Reviewed and approved the updated internal audit charter tax liability by 158 million and increase retained earnings by 31 million see note 2 on page 126.
Reviewed the audit manual Calculation of Weighted The Committee requested that corporate finance Average Cost of Capital undertake a full review of the WACC calculation used External auditors: WACC across the Group.
The review was performed in Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor PwC conjunction with external valuation specialists.
The results of the review were discussed and the Reviewed the reports from the external auditor PwC and EY Committee agreed to maintain the current model with modified inputs for: the risk free rate, the pre-tax Approved the services provided by the external auditor PwC and EY cost of debt, the size premium and the country risk Reviewed and approved the audit and non-audit fees PwC and EY premium.
This resulted in a new WACC of 8.5 percent for the Group as of 30 September 2014 vs the previous Reviewed and approved the external audit plan EY 7.3 percent as of June 2014.
Reviewed the interim report from the external auditor EY Acquisition of the For financial reporting purposes, the acquisition of the Frank Russell Company Frank Russell Company was accounted for under the purchase accounting method.
The Audit Committee Other matters: considered the allocation of purchase consideration Assessed its own effectiveness between the Index and the Investment Management divisions of Russell based on detailed discussions with Reviewed and updated its own terms of reference management, the external auditor and the advice of an independent third party.
The report by the third party Reviewed and discussed an update to the Groups business continuity provided a full analysis of the value of the Russell and crisis management plans intangibles to be recognised and their remaining useful lives.
The Committee satisfied itself that the allocation Reviewed and discussed a cyber security research report was undertaken on a basis that reflected the true underlying value of each business.
The Committee also Reviewed a report on whistleblowing incidents discussed the accounting treatment of the Russell investment business and agreed that full consolidation Reviewed and discussed the Annual Report and the procedures in the financial statements from the date of acquisition implemented to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable 2 December 2014 was in line with IAS criteria for the period.
For more details please see note 31 on page 157.
Reviewed an update on the implementation of the new financial system Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements: Significant judgements in the Annual Report Going concern: Significant judgements for April The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Group has adequate financial December 2014 How the Committee reviewed these matters resources for the future by reviewing and challenging the Groups committed funding and liquidity positions, its ability to generate cash from its various Goodwill The Audit Committee considered the approach and and intangibles methodology applied to performing the annual goodwill activities, the quality of its risk management and its ability to raise external impairment impairment assessment as well as the assessment for funding.
The Committee relied on the detailed working capital process, the assessment indications of impairment of other intangible assets as FY2015 Budget and the three year business plan and longer-term strategic required under IAS 36, including the key assumptions objectives of the Group.
The Committee considered the assumptions made for short and long-term growth rates, cash flow expectations and the discount rate used for the Groups by management in its evaluation of future cash flows under stress including cost of capital.
The Audit Committee considered various an accelerated downside scenario.
The Committee also considered and scenarios to evaluate the impact of changes in challenged the possible mitigating actions under the control of management.
assumptions on the models results.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external auditors, who reported their findings to the Committee.
Following The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the a review of some licenses recognised on the acquisition going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report and financial of the LCH.
Clearnet Group, it was determined that the statements.
cash flows required to maintain the current valuation are too uncertain.
Consequently it was considered appropriate to impair the asset resulting in a 21.8 Commitments and contingencies: million write-off.
Details can be found in note 8 to The Audit Committee considered the facts and circumstances surrounding the financial statements on page 134. commitments and contingencies, in particular with respect to LCH.
Clearnet and Frank Russell Company.
The Committee considered the nature of the correspondence and discussions which had taken place and, after due consideration, agreed that no provision should be recorded in the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the Audit Committee 77 Non-recurring items: Fair balanced and understandable annual report The Committee discussed and agreed on non-recurring items in the financial The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the annual report is fair, balanced statements for the 9 month period.
These are presented in note 8 on page and understandable and has presented its conclusions to the Board of the 134 of the financial statements.
In order to reach its conclusions, the Audit Committee examined the following criteria: Report on external auditors and safeguards F air: on non-audit services The annual report does not omit important or sensitive elements A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable to the necessary to understand the strategy, performance and business external auditor for the period ended 31 December 2014 and prior year model of the Group is provided below and in note 35 to the financial statements on page 163.
On 12 June 2014, the Group appointed Ernst & Young LLP EY as its external Segmental reporting accurately describes the various activities of the auditor, replacing  LLP PwC.
Group and their relative contributions to the strategy, performance and business model of the Group Auditors remuneration payable to EY and its associates for the period ended The messages in the strategic report and the CEOs and Chairmans 31 December 2014 and to PwC and its associates for the prior year comprise reports are consistent with the financial reporting section the following: Balanced: Period ended Year ended 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 There is an appropriate balance between the required statutory Audit services: m m accounting metrics and Group-specific adjusted measures Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.7 0.5 The messages in all sections appropriately balance the favourable Audit of subsidiary companies 1.0 1.1 and less favourable events and trends affecting the strategy and Audit related assurance services 0.3 0.4 performance of the Group Other non-audit services: The principal risks presented on pages 54-61 accurately reflect the Taxation 0.1 0.6 risk registers of the Group which are used to set the risk appetite and Corporate finance 0.2 the strategy of the Group Other assurance services 0.1 Understandable: Total expenses 2.2 2.8 There is a clear and comprehensive framework for the annual report In the nine months ended 31 December 2014, the majority of other non-audit The key messages are adequately highlighted in simple language services provided by PwC and EY were mostly in relation to tax advisory, avoiding specialised terms and acronyms wherever possible acquisition support services and other assurance services.
There is a glossary of technical terms and acronyms used frequently The Chair of the Committee reviewed each of these individual appointments throughout the report on their merits, prior to PwC or EY being engaged.
The review process involved The relevant information for shareholders is easy to find considering managements assessment of: and appropriately cross-referenced where necessary without which accounting firms had the appropriate experience and expertise additional clutter to undertake the work: The various sections taken together present a consistent and easy whether there were any conflicts of interest for PwC or EY: to comprehend overview of the strategy, performance and business whether the conflicts of interest that existed for other potential firms, model of the Group who were either advising other parties to the transactions or were auditors of the other company, could be appropriately managed: and the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall audit fee and relative significance to PwC or EY in the context of its total client fees.
In each case, the Audit Committee concluded, on the balance of risks, that the appointment of PwC or EY represented the most effective, secure and efficient way of obtaining the necessary advice and services, given their knowledge of our business and the Groups structure and accounting and tax affairs, together with their wider knowledge of our industry sector.
The Committees responsibility to monitor and review the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is supported by a policy on audit and non audit services supplied by the auditors of the Group and of its subsidiaries.
This policy is available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance section of the Groups website at www.
