64 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Corporate governance The Corporate Governance Report which follows is intended The programme of visiting its overseas businesses and meeting local to give shareholders an understanding of the Groups corporate management included a trip to Paris the main ofce of LCH.
Clearnet SA governance arrangements and how they operated during the in September 2014. nine month period ended 31 December 2014 the Period, including how the Group complied with the principles of the Diversity UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board appointment made during the Period continues to reect the Boards focus on ensuring the balance of its membership reects a diversity Changes to the Board and succession planning of experiences, business backgrounds, nationalities and gender.
There have been a number of changes to the Board this year.
Having served 12 years as Chairman, I have decided to step down and the Board has been Board effectiveness engaged in identifying my successor.
The Board aims to have completed the The Board has conducted an external review of its own effectiveness.
An overview of this process is described on pages 68-69.
After seven years on the Board, including as Deputy Chairman and Senior Investor engagement Independent Director SID, Paolo Scaroni stepped down from the Board.
Shareholder engagement and support remain central to the Boards planning Robert Webb was appointed as SID and in that role was asked to oversee and thinking.
This was again particularly important in another year of the process of identifying my successor.
We have a comprehensive investor relations programme, which is described in more detail on page 72.
The Board receives regular Additionally, as the Group has grown and expanded geographically we have updates on shareholder feedback at each of its meetings so that it is aware ensured that the balance of skills and experience on the Board remains of shareholders views and concerns.
Shareholders are also offered the appropriate.
opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Chairman, as appropriate.
Sharon Bowles was appointed to the Board on 15 August 2014.
Ms Bowles has extensive knowledge of UK and European politics, economics and regulation impacting the market infrastructure sector.
This experience and insight will be of great value to the Group at a time when the regulatory environment is evolving and becoming increasingly more complex.
Ms Bowles appointment further deepens the overall skills, experience and diversity of the Board.
Conrmation of Ms Bowles appointment will be sought at this years AGM.
Chris Gibson-Smith Board focus Chairman The Board oversees the Groups strategy, risk framework and financial performance.
In particular, it has spent much of its time considering the acquisition of the Frank Russell Company and the 938 million rights issue, the proceeds from which were used to part fund the acquisition.
Further detail on matters considered by the Board can be found on page 66.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 65 Corporate Governance Report Complying with the provisions of the Code Key responsibilities The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and business integrity in all of its activities.
In 2014, the UK Corporate Chairman Governance Code the Code was reviewed by the Financial Reporting Council Acts as an independent Non-Executive Director and chairs the Board and amendments were introduced that will apply to the financial periods of the Company: commencing on or after 1 October 2014 the New Code.
Throughout the Forges an effective Board based on experience, diversity, skills Period, the Company has complied with all provisions of the Code, and in and competencies: the coming financial year, the Board will ensure that the Company complies with all provisions of the New Code.
Ensures, in collaboration with the Chief Executive, that the Board considers the strategic issues facing the Group in a timely manner The Code sets out guidance in the form of main principles and more specific and is presented with sound information and analysis appropriate provisions for good governance in relation to Board leadership, effectiveness, to the decisions that it is asked to make: accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Further Acts as a sounding board for the Chief Executive and provides general information on the UK Corporate Governance Code, its applicability, the advice relating to the management and development of the Groups principles and their provisions can be found on the Financial Reporting business: and Councils website, at www.
This Corporate Governance Report forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 110 of the Supports the commercial activities of the Group by, inter alia, Directors Report.
maintaining contact with the Groups key stakeholders and other industry participants.
Board of Directors Role of the Board Chief Executive The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group and is Formulates the strategic direction of the Group and periodically responsible to shareholders for achieving the Groups strategic objectives agrees this with the Board: and delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Directors act in Ensures proper financial and business control is exercised within a way they consider will promote the long-term success of the Company, the Group: by constructively challenging and supporting the development of the Groups strategy, for the benefit of shareholders as a whole, with regard Chairs the Group Executive Committee: to the interests of the Groups employees, the impact of the business on Ensures there is a clear management structure with appropriately the community and environment and the interests of other stakeholders.
delegated responsibilities, staffed by suitably experienced and The Board manages the overall control of the Groups affairs with reference qualified staff: to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
This schedule was reviewed during the course of the Period and is available on the Companys Ensures appropriate reporting and communication systems website at www.
are established across the Group: Ensures key performance objectives are set for all operational The Board views the brands and reputations of its subsidiaries as important departments, action plans and budgetary controls are established and, assets of the Group.
Accordingly, protection of the brand and reputation of where necessary, corrective action is taken to maximise the the Group, including ensuring that subsidiaries continue to meet local legal performance of the Group: and regulatory requirements, is also a key part of the Boards role.
Ensures the Groups strategy and values are effectively understood The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate with a and applied by management and staff: and clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the running Ensures an appropriate risk management framework is in operation.
and leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive has delegated authority from, and is responsible to, the Board for managing the Groups business with the power for further delegation in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective running and management of the business.
The current key responsibilities of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive are set out in the following table.
66 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Corporate governance continued Matters considered by the Board in the Period Standing items Annually Throughout the Period Reports from the Chief Executive on performance Health and Safety Frank Russell Company acquisition in each of the business areas, together with Risk, Regulation, Legal, Human Resources and Strategy Reports from the Chief Financial Officer on the Three Year Business Plan Rights Issue, including approval of prospectus financial performance and position of the Group, and annual Budget investor relations activity and Treasury matters Updates from the Board committees Strategic Review off-site strategy day Approval of Debt Facility FCAs risk mitigation programme together Chairmans succession with a presentation by the FCA Evaluation of Board Effectiveness Monitoring the progress of integrating LCH.
Clearnet into the Group Review of independence of Directors Discussion and approval of Group strategy pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code Review of key governance and Investor Relations reports corporate policies Review of quarterly financial forecasts and funding Approval of the Group Risk Register and Risk Appetite of acquisitions Executive and Non-Executive succession planning, including the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director and a new Senior Independent Director Presentation on Central Counterparty financial risk Review and approval of full year and interim results and quarterly Interim Management Statements prior to market release STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 67 Board and Committee meetings in the Period When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conflicts in The Board held four scheduled meetings and seven additional meetings at their schedule, they received and reviewed papers to be considered at the short notice.
On a number of occasions throughout the Period, the Chairman relevant meeting.
Where they had comments or concerns on the matters to met Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors present, including be discussed, they provided these to the Chairman of the Board or Committee at the beginning of each scheduled Board meeting, to discuss the business in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board engages with Directors of that meeting and other issues.
Throughout the Period, the Chairman also between Board meetings to discuss business and strategic issues.
met with Non-Executive Directors individually to discuss other businessrelated matters.
Comprehensive Board and committee papers, comprising The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the Group an agenda and formal reports and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on corporate advance of each meeting.
Directors are continually updated with written governance matters.
and oral reports, from senior executives and external advisors.
Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the Company Board meeting attendance in the Period in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office and execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the Period.
Scheduled Ad hoc Total This policy covers the Directors for any such liabilities in respect of which Chris Gibson-Smith 4 4 7 7 11 11 they are not indemnified by the Company and, to the extent to which it Xavier Rolet 4 4 7 7 11 11 has indemnified the Directors, also covers the Company.
This insurance Jacques Aigrain 4 4 5 7 9 11 cover has been renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance 1 Sharon Bowles 2 2 3 3 5 5 provides cover for a Director in the event that the Director is proved to have Sherry Coutu CBE 4 4 5 7 9 11 acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Paul Heiden 4 4 6 7 10 11 Raffaele Jerusalmi 4 4 7 7 11 11 Stuart Lewis 3 4 5 7 8 11 Andrea Munari 4 4 6 7 10 11 Stephen OConnor 4 4 7 7 11 11 Baroness Joanna Shields OBE 3 4 4 7 7 11 Massimo Tononi 4 4 6 7 10 11 David Warren 3 4 6 7 9 11 Robert Webb 3 4 4 7 7 11 Directors who have left during the Period 2 Paolo Scaroni 1 1 1 3 2 4 1.
Joined the Board on 15 August 2014.
When arranging meetings at short notice, every attempt is made to accommodate Directors diaries: however, inevitably, not all Directors are able to attend all such meetings.
The majority of meetings where Directors have been unable to attend were the seven additional meetings called at short notice which related to the acquisition of Frank Russell Company and associated rights issue.
68 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Corporate governance continued Board balance and independence arising as a result of Mr Aigrains appointment to the Board have been There is a strong non-executive element on the Board, and the Non-Executive governed by the terms of a conflicts memorandum of understanding Directors provide deep corporate experience and knowledge which they apply between LCH.
Clearnet Group and the Company.
It was announced on to their understanding of the Group and its strategy.
24 February 2015 that Mr Aigrain would step down as Chairman and a director of LCH.
Clearnet Group with effect from 5 March 2015.
The Board considers that the Directors possess a strong range of business experience and that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience Andrea Munari was, until 31 December 2013, employed by Intesa San Paolo, given the Groups increasing diversification, scale and reach.
The Board which is a customer of the Group.
Given the size of Intesa, Intesas relationship considers that the appropriate balance is best achieved by balancing with the Company and its subsidiaries is not material to Intesa.
The Board continuity of experience and new joiners and also by drawing Directors benefits greatly from Mr Munaris current experience in financial markets from a wide range of backgrounds, including in the financial markets in and the Risk Committee also benefits from Mr Munaris experience of risk which the Group operates, and in broader business.
management in a financial services company.
Stuart Lewis is employed by Deutsche Bank AG, which is a customer of the Group.
Deutsche Banks relationship with the Company and its subsidiaries Non-Executive Director Changes is not material to Deutsche Bank.
Additionally, given his role as Chief Risk The following changes have taken place over the past nine months: Officer, Mr Lewis does not work in an area of Deutsche Bank which has the resignation of Paolo Scaroni Non-Executive Director customer relationships with the Group.
on 16 July 2014: and the appointment of Sharon Bowles Non-Executive Director Stephen OConnor was, until June 2013, employed by Morgan Stanley, which on 15 August 2014. is a customer of the Group.
It is believed that Morgan Stanleys relationship with the Company and its subsidiaries is not material to Morgan Stanley.
In particular, in the case of Mr Lewis and Mr OConnor, given the presence The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are independent of LCH.
Clearnet Group within the Group, the Board believes it is important in character and judgement.
In assessing each Director, the Board considered to have members who have current or recent experience in credit and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, market risk.
or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Robert Webb has served on the Board since 2001.
The Board considers that In evaluating Directors independence, the Board has taken into consideration an individuals independence cannot be determined arbitrarily on the basis the guidance provided by the Code.
The Code requires a company to state its of a particular period of service.
The Board also benefits from his experience reasons if it determines that a director is independent in certain circumstances, and knowledge resulting from the length of his service as well as his wider including where a director indirectly has a material business relationship business experience.
with the Company as a director of a body that has such relationship with the Company, or has had in the last three years, and where a director has served In line with the Code, all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
on the Board for more than nine years.
Board effectiveness and leadership Jacques Aigrain was Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet Group during the Period.
Since 2005 it has been the Boards policy to conduct an effectiveness review LCH.
Clearnet Group is a non-wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with on an annual basis and, where appropriate, to act on the results of the review.
which the Company has a material business relationship.
Mr Aigrain brings The Code recommends that an externally facilitated evaluation should take vast experience in the area of post trade which greatly assists the Board.
place at least every three years.
Mr Aigrain was appointed as Executive Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet Group from October 2013 to 3 February 2014, following the departure of Ian Axe, During the Period, the Board engaged Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review LCH.
During this period Mr Aigrain did not participate to facilitate an external review of its effectiveness.
Boardroom Review was in LCH.
It was felt that Mr Aigrains appointed following a review of providers in the market and is not currently appointment to this role on a temporary basis was the best way to manage engaged in other work on behalf of the Company.
The evaluation process any risks following Mr Axes departure.
Any potential conflicts of interest is described opposite.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 69 Evaluation process The in-depth process involved one to one interviews with Board members covering key aspects associated with the effectiveness of the Board including: Strategy & Planning, Governance, Risk & Control, Performance Management & Monitoring, Board Composition and Succession Planning, Board & Committee working efficiencies: External facilitator attendance at a Board meeting: Review of papers and documentation provided to the Board: and Summary results of observations and recommendations presented to the Board.
Recommendations The Review found that the Board was operating effectively.
The main areas identified by the Board in the review for continued focus related to: Effective management of the process for appointing a successor for the Chairman: Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman roles: Refreshment of membership of committees: and Appointing the Chair of the Risk Committee to sit on the Audit Committee.
The results of the review will be used to assist the future development Conflicts of interest and performance of the Board, its committees and its individual Directors.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise conflicts They will also assist the Nomination Committee and Board in the process of of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks identifying a successor to Chris Gibson-Smith and wider succession planning.
The Group has established procedures whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate authorisation is Board Induction sought prior to the appointment of any new Director and new conflicts are Each new Director joining the Board is provided with an induction programme addressed appropriately.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can covering the key business areas of the Group.
Directors are provided with key only be made by non-conflicted Directors and, in making such decisions, documents including those covering strategy, past Board papers, an overview the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most of the business, and information on Directors responsibilities including likely to promote the Companys success.
Potential conflicts of interest arising under the Listing Rules and the Code.
Directors meet with executives from as a result of Jacques Aigrains appointment to the Board have been governed throughout the Group to better understand each of the business areas by the terms of a conflicts memorandum of understanding between together with the Groups governance, financial and legal framework.
The Board believes that, during Directors have access to independent professional advice if they judge the Period, these procedures operated effectively.
it necessary to fulfil their responsibilities as directors.
Board Committees Board development The Company ensures that all committees are provided with sufficient Directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and knowledge resources to undertake their duties.
All committees have written terms of the business, and briefings are regularly given at Board meetings on of reference which are available from the corporate responsibility section particular parts of the business.
During the Period, the Board also continued on the Companys website at www.
com or on request from the its practice of undertaking formal visits to its overseas businesses so that the Group Company Secretary.
Directors can experience key aspects of the Groups operations first hand.
70 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Risk sub-committees of the Executive Committee, and the Groups Details of the committees remit and activities are set out in a separate consolidated risk profile is reviewed by the Executive Committee and reported Nomination Committee Report on page 73. to the Board Risk Committee at least three times a year and to the Board at least every six months.
During the Period, the Risk Committee reviewed the Audit Committee risk profile three times and discussed the Group Risk Appetite before making Details of the committees remit and activities are set out in a separate Audit a recommendation to the Board for its approval.
The Audit Committee and the Committee Report on pages 74-77.
Risk Committee also held a special combined meeting during the period to review, in detail, the proposal to acquire Frank Russell Company and to make Risk Committee recommendations to the Board.
The Board held formal discussions on the Details of the committees remit and activities are set out in a separate Risk Group risk profile twice during the Period.
In addition the Chairman had Committee Report on pages 78-79. regular meetings with the CRO, who is a member of the Executive Committee, to discuss the Groups key and emerging risks.
Remuneration Committee Details of the committees remit and activities are set out in a separate Further detail on the Groups risk management oversight can be found Remuneration Committee Report on pages 80-109. on page 50.
Risk Management and Internal Control During the Period, the Group introduced a mandatory online training The Board has overall responsibility for the sponsorship of a strong risk programme for all employees covering ethical conduct, risk and control culture across the Group.
It approves the Risk Appetite each year as part of management and regulatory requirements.
In addition, the Board rethe strategic business objectives, and ensures that executive management confirmed its commitment to the maintenance of a strong ethical risk culture maintain a system of internal controls that is appropriate for the Groups through the approval of the Group Risk Appetite including the risk culture risk exposure, and which seeks to maintain the Groups risks within the framework.
A divisional internal control and risk management selfappetite set by the Board.
The Audit Committee and the Risk Committee certification process is also performed semi-annually.
Each business unit is assist the Board in discharging this responsibility by reviewing and required to confirm that it is in compliance with the Groups policies and assessing the Groups risk framework, systems of internal controls and governance procedures and is managing its risk within appetite: exceptions risk management process on a regular basis.
The system of internal controls are reported to the Audit Committee and to the Risk Committee.
Internal is designed to facilitate the management of the business within the Boards Audit provides regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and risk appetite rather than eliminate risks, and can only provide reasonable, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and the Groups but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, fraud risk framework.
or breaches of laws and regulations.
An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group is provided The Groups risk management process is defined by a Board-approved on pages 54-61.
Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework which is updated on a regular basis to take into account the size, footprint and diversification of the Group.
Executive management is accountable for risk identification, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, monitoring and reporting within the framework approved by the Board.
A combined bottom-up and top-down risk management approach is adopted, with risks identified at business unit level.
Divisional and legal entity risk profiles are reviewed by the STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 71 Internal Controls Internal Audit The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems The Internal Audit function provides reliable, objective and reasonable in relation to the financial reporting process.
These include: assurance to management, Audit Committee members, Risk Committee The application of Group accounting policies: members and Group Board members on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the governance model and the risk A comprehensive budgeting process, with an annual budget approved by management framework in place to manage risks within the Groups risk the Board, and financial and key performance indicators reviewed against appetite and achieve the Groups business objectives.
As a third line of budget on a monthly basis at a group, divisional and business unit level.
defence, the function has no operational responsibilities over the entities Revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a quarterly basis: or processes which it reviews.
A system of delegation of authority including the approval of expenditure up to set financial limits: The independence of the internal audit function is achieved through the following means: The Chief Financial Officers CFO management reports, used by the The Group Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit Executive Committee and which contain key financial information and Committee of the Board and to the CFO for administrative matters performance indicators, are shared with the Group Board and any key and has direct access to the Chairman of the Board: issues are reviewed at each Board meeting: The Audit Committee must be consulted on the appointment The Financial Risk Committee and New Products and Market Committee or the dismissal of the Group Head of Internal Audit: and oversee risks related to capital, investments, tax and counterparties: The Audit Committee approves the annual budget for internal audit.
As part of its remit, the Financial Risk Committee oversees the activities of the Groups Treasury function through its Treasury Committee, which Further details on the internal audit function can be found in the internal is chaired by the CFO: and audit charter which is reviewed annually and available from the Group The Treasury Committee operates within Board approved policy and Company Secretary or in the corporate governance section of the meets regularly to review the management of the Groups credit, market Groups website at www.
72 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Corporate governance continued Conclusion Committee are also available to meet major investors, particularly to discuss The Board confirms that, through the Audit Committee and the Risk corporate governance and remuneration, as required.
During the period, Committee, it has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the senior management and the IR team held more than 254 meetings and Groups system of internal controls throughout the Period and up to the calls with shareholders and potential investors from around the world.
date of approval of this Annual Report.
Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, during these reviews.
The Board is satisfied that the risk management including market expectations of financial performance, share register process and system of internal controls conform with the 2005 FRCs composition and feedback from major investors.
Sell-side analyst research Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code notes are circulated to the Board following publication.
The Groups corporate formerly known as the Turnbull guidance.
brokers and a specialist IR advisory firm provide the Board with advice on market sentiment, shareholder relations and share register analysis.
The Relations with shareholders Groups AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to meet Directors The Company engages with shareholders through an active Investor and to put questions to the Board, and the procedures for the AGM are Relations IR programme, providing regular opportunity for contact compliant with the Code.
Voting at the AGM is by way of a poll to ensure with existing and potential shareholders, together with sell-side analysts all shareholders views are taken into account.
that produce investment research relating to the Group.
The IR programme includes meetings, calls, presentations and information releases on a regular The Investor Relations section of the Groups website, www.
com, basis throughout the Period, based around the Groups financial reporting is the primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
calendar and following major corporate events and news flow.
In addition Annual and interim reports and accounts, interim management statements, to information on financial and operational performance, the Group news releases, presentations and other documents are available on the engages with shareholders and relevant shareholder advisory agencies website together with a list of analysts producing research on the Company on environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
and a summary of analysts forecasts of performance.
Presentations of preliminary and interim results are accessible to all shareholders via The IR function, reporting to the CFO, is responsible for planning and webcasts in real time and also for a period after the event.
The Group also executing the IR programme and day-to-day contact with the market.
produces an annual Corporate Responsibility report that details its approach The CEO and CFO typically engage with investors through meetings and to ESG matters: www.
com  presentations to discuss strategy, performance and other matters.
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration
