STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the Nomination Committee 65 Report of the Nomination Committee The Committee spent the majority of its time during the year overseeing the process for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors described elsewhere in the Governance Report.
The Committee agreed the role description for the new Non-Executive Directors and interviewed candidates for the various Non-Executive Director appointments throughout the year.
The Committee members then gave feedback to the Chairman and recommendations were made to the Board.
The Committee used an executive search agency, Spencer Stuart, to help identify potential candidates.
Prior to being engaged by the Company to carry out the search, Spencer Stuart carried out the Board Effectiveness Review in FY2012.
The Committee also considered senior management succession planning.
Chris Gibson-Smith The Committee formally met once in the year.
Nomination Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee members also held a number of informal discussions with the Chairman during the year.
The Nomination Committee members as at 31 March 2014 were: Gender Diversity Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Robert Webb, Paolo Scaroni The Board supports the Davies Reviews conclusion that greater efforts should be and Massimo Tononi.
The Committees role is to review the made in improving the gender balance of corporate boards and that quotas size and structure of the Board, consider succession planning for female Board representation are not the preferred approach.
and make recommendations to the Board on potential candidates for the Board.
The Committee and the Board have sought to ensure that appointments are of the best candidates to promote the success of the Company and Nomination Committee meeting attendance that appointments are based on merit, with due regard for the benefits of in the year ended 31 March 2014 diversity on the Board, including gender while also meeting the requirements of the Equality Act.
Subject to these requirements, the Board made a Total commitment in 2013 to further strengthening female representation on Chris Gibson-Smith 1 1 the Board.
At Board level, this has included requesting headhunters to ensure Paolo Scaroni 1 1 that as far as practicable, a significant proportion of the long list of candidates Robert Webb 1 1 are female.
Further to this commitment, Joanna Shields OBE and Sherry Massimo Tononi 1 1 Coutu CBE were appointed during the year.
The Boards diversity policy can be found at http: www.
