STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the Nomination Committee 73 Report of the Nomination Committee Chairmans Succession During the Period, the Committee was asked by the Board to oversee the process for the appointment of a new Chairman.
The Committee was chaired for these purposes by Robert Webb.
The Committee has appointed headhunters, Spencer Stuart, to help identify potential candidates.
Prior to being engaged by the Company to carry out the search, Spencer Stuart carried out the Board Effectiveness Review in FY2012.
The Committee discussed the process for succession, the role specication and candidate lists.
Spencer Stuart were asked to seek views from the wider Board on the role of the Chairman in future years and to gather suggestions for possible candidates.
Chris Gibson-Smith The Committee also discussed wider Board succession issues and the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board appointed Sharon Bowles as a Non-Executive Director following the engagement of external recruitment consultants.
A shortlist of The Nomination Committee members as at 31 December candidates met with the Chairman, Chief Executive and members 2014 were: Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Robert Webb, Paul of the Nomination Committee.
Heiden, Stephen OConnor and Massimo Tononi.
The Committees role is to review the size and structure of the Board, consider Gender Diversity succession planning and make recommendations to the Board The Board supports the Davies Reviews conclusion that greater efforts on potential candidates for Board membership.
should be made in improving the gender balance of corporate boards and that quotas for female Board representation are not the preferred approach.
Nomination Committee meeting attendance in the 9 month period ended 31 December 2014 the Period The Committee and the Board have sought to ensure that appointments are of the best candidates to promote the success of the Company and Total Group and that appointments are based on merit, with due regard for the Chris Gibson-Smith 2 2 benets of diversity on the Board, including gender while also meeting the requirements of the Equality Act.
Subject to these requirements, Massimo Tononi 2 2 the Board made a commitment in 2013 to further strengthening female Robert Webb 2 2 representation on the Board.
At Board level, this has included requesting 1 Paul Heiden 2 2 headhunters to ensure that as far as practicable, a significant proportion 1 Stephen O Connor 2 2 of the long list of candidates is female.
Further to the appointments 2 Paolo Scaroni 0 0 of Baroness Shields and Sherry Coutu in January 2014 the Board also appointed Sharon Bowles in August 2014.
Paul Heiden and Stephen OConnor were appointed to the Nomination Committee on 2 July 2014. can be found at http: www.
Paolo Scaroni stepped down from the Board and the Nomination Committee group  .
