66 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Audit Committee Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee 1.
Financial reporting The Committee recommends the financial statements of the Group to the Board, including the annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements that they contain.
Internal controls and risk management systems The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
In order to do this, the Committee considers reports from management and the internal audit function.
Paul Heiden The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding Chairman of the Audit Committee the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and recommends to the Board the statements to be included in the Annual Report concerning internal controls and risk management This report is intended to give an understanding of the role in collaboration with the Risk Committee.
of the Audit Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities for the system of internal control 3.
External auditors and the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor and meets with the external auditor at the start of each Committee meeting, without In 2013, the previous Audit and Risk Committee of the Board was management being present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from separated into two separate committees: the Audit Committee and their audit.
The Committee reviews and approves the annual audit plan, ensures the Risk Committee.
As the Chairman of the Audit Committee, I sit on that it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement and reviews the the Risk Committee in order to improve the coordination of information findings of the audit with the external auditor.
The Committee ensures that the between the two committees.
The new set-up of the committees reflects external audit services contract is put out to tender on a periodic basis in line the growing importance of risk management and the clear separation with existing best practices.
The Committee oversees the selection process for of duties between the second and third line of defence within the Group.
new auditors and if an auditor resigns the Committee investigates the issues This separation has increased the efficiency and effectiveness of leading to the resignation and decides whether any action is required.
Other matters Priorities in the forthcoming year will include: establishing a successful Treasury working relationship with the new external auditor, further aligning the The Committee, with the Risk Committee, reviews proposed changes to control environment of the Groups recent acquisitions with the LSEG the Group Treasury Policy, approves the taking of any actions which fall framework, optimising the coordination with the Risk Committee and outside the scope of policy and considers material financing and treasury reviewing the Committees meeting arrangements to further improve transactions reserved for the Board ahead of review by the Board.
Whistleblowing and fraud The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate Paul Heiden follow-up action.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Composition and meetings The Committee meets the requirements of the UK Code.
It is comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors who all bring recent and relevant financial experience.
It is chaired by Paul Heiden who is a qualified chartered accountant with a career in a variety of senior finance roles.
The other members are Jacques Aigrain and Massimo Tononi who have each previously held various executive management roles in financial institutions.
Baroness Janet Cohen and Gay Huey Evans both stepped down from the Board, and from the Audit and Risk Committee, on 18 July 2013.
The skills and experience of each Committee member are provided on page 55.
The Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief Risk Officer and the external auditors are all invited to attend all Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, various other managers are invited from time to time to present specific strategic issues relevant to the Committees purview.
The external auditors did not attend the Audit Committee meeting on 18 March 2014 as it was dedicated to the selection of the new external auditors.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the Audit Committee 67 The Group Head of Internal Audit meets privately with the Committee at External auditors: the end of each Committee meeting without management being present.
Reviewed reports from the external auditor Approved the services provided by the external auditor 1 Attendance at Audit Committee meetings in FY2014 : Reviewed and approved the audit and non-audit fees 4 Scheduled Ad hoc TOTAL Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor Paul Heiden 3 3 1 1 4 4 Reviewed and approved the Group audit plan Jacques Aigrain 3 3 1 1 4 4 2 Baroness Janet Cohen 0 1 0 1 Oversaw and approved the selection of the new external auditor 3 Gay Huey Evans 1 1 1 1 Other matters: Massimo Tononi 3 3 1 1 4 4 Assessed its own effectiveness 1 The Board appointed separate audit and risk committees on 18 July 2013.
Prior to that date, Reviewed and updated its own terms of reference the Board operated a combined Audit and Risk Committee.
2, 3 Baroness Janet Cohen and Gay Huey Evans each stepped down from the Board, and the Reviewed and discussed an update to the Groups business continuity Audit Committee, on 18 July 2013. and crisis management plans 4 The ad hoc meeting was dedicated to the selection of the external auditor on 18 March 2014.
Reviewed and discussed the Annual Report and the procedures Activities in FY2014 implemented to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate meeting.
During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as Significant judgments in the Annual Report set in its terms of reference by performing the following: Significant Financial matters: judgements for Reviewed and approved key accounting judgements FY2014 How the Committee reviewed these matters Goodwill impairment The Audit Committee considered the approach and Reviewed and approved the half year and full year financial results assessment methodology applied to measuring the impairment of Goodwill, including the key assumptions for short Reviewed the capital management policy and long-term growth rates, and the discount rate Discussed the post completion planning of the LCH.
Clearnet acquisition used for the Groups cost of capital.
As a result, a reconsideration of appropriate cash generating units Reviewed and discussed the Treasury update reports in Italy was made and the Committee reviewed and approved the changes proposed.
The Audit Reviewed and approved the goodwill impairments Committee also considered various scenarios to evaluate the impact of changes in assumptions on Reviewed and discussed managements view of commitments and the models results.
The impairment review was also contingencies and the adequacy of the proposed disclosures an area of focus for the external auditors, who reported their findings to the Committee.
As a result of these activities, the Committee agreed that there Internal controls: was no impairment to be recorded in the FY2014 Reviewed compliance with the UK governance code internal controls accounts.
More details can be found in note 13 including whistle blowing at half year and year end on pages 124-125.
Reviewed updates on internal audit plans Going concern The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Group has adequate financial resources for the future by Approved the three year internal audit plan 2013-2016 reviewing and challenging the Groups committed funding and liquidity positions, its ability to generate Reviewed reports on the performance of internal audit cash from its various activities, the quality of its risk management and its ability to raise external funding.
Reviewed group risk reports The Committee relied on the detailed working capital process, the FY2015 Budget and the three year business plan.
The Committee considered the assumptions made by management in its evaluation of future cash flows under stress including possible mitigating actions under the control of management.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts.
68 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 In the year ended 31 March 2014, the majority of other non-audit services Significant provided by  LLP were in relation to taxation.
judgements for These services were mostly for compliance and VAT advice for LCH.
Clearnet FY2014 How the Committee reviewed these matters and included other smaller tax-related projects.
Recognition and The Audit Committee considered which method measurement of was appropriate to recognise the goodwill for the goodwill on acquisitions acquisitions during the year that involved less than The Committee reviewed each of these individual appointments on their 100 per cent of the target by considering the key merits, prior to  LLP being engaged.
Clearnet criteria used to make the determination.
Based on had engaged PwC to provide tax services prior to the Groups acquisition of a discussions with management and the external majority stake.
These services were retrospectively reviewed and approved by auditors, the Audit Committee agreed that the fair value approach should be used for LCH.
Clearnet while the Chair of the Audit Committee within the context of the Group policy.
the proportionate share method would be used for the smaller acquisitions.
Results can be found in The review process involved considering managements assessment of: note 28 on pages 136 and 137. which accounting firms had the appropriate experience and expertise Purchase price The Audit Committee satisfied itself on the validity to undertake the work: allocation on of the methodology to allocate the purchase price whether there were any conflicts of interest for acquisitions for acquisitions based on detailed discussions with management, with the external auditor and after  LLP: consideration of the advice of external third party valuations.
These discussions focused on the whether the conflicts of interest that existed for other potential firms, reasonableness of the model and assumptions which were advising other parties to the transactions or were auditors used in comparison with best practices.
The results of the other company, could be appropriately managed: and can be found in note 28 on pages 136 and 137. the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall audit fee and Commitments and The Audit Committee considered the facts and relative significance to  LLP in the context of its Contingencies circumstances surrounding commitments and total client fees.
contingencies, in particular with respect to LCH.
It considered the nature of the In each case the Audit Committee concluded, on the balance of risks, correspondence and discussions which had taken place and after due consideration, the Committee that the appointment of  LLP represented the agreed that no provision should be recorded in the most effective, secure and efficient way of obtaining the necessary advice FY2014 accounts.
and services, given its knowledge of our business and the Groups structure and accounting and tax affairs together with its wider knowledge of our industry sector.
Report on external auditors A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable to the The Group has also engaged other accounting firms on transactional external auditor for the year ended 31 March 2014 is provided below and in work during the year, selecting the appropriate firms based on the note 32 to the accounts on page 141: criteria above, and the fees for these assignments are included alongside  and other advisers costs within the transaction 2014 2013 costs disclosed in note 7 to the accounts.
m m Audit services: In light of the increasing diversification, scale and reach of the Group, and also Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.5 0.2 in line with the Corporate Governance Code and UK Competition Commission Audit of subsidiary companies 1.1 1.0 proposals regarding periodic tenders, the Audit Committee agreed on 18 September 2013 that a tender process should be conducted for the position Audit related assurance services 0.4 0.4 of the Groups external auditor.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved Other non-audit services: the tender process, governance and selection criteria.
Taxation 0.6 0.2 Corporate finance 0.2 0.6 As a result of the tender, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board Other assurance services 0.1 that Ernst & Young LLP EY be appointed as the Groups external auditor.
Total expenses 2.8 2.5 Such appointment of EY will take place under the casual vacancy basis by the Board shortly after the completion of the audit of LSEGs consolidated accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 by PwC, and the appointment of EY will be recommended to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in July 2014.
