STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the Risk Committee 69 Report of the Risk Committee Composition and responsibilities The Committee is chaired by Steven OConnor who provides recent and relevant financial and risk management experience through his career in a variety of senior executive roles in the financial industry.
In addition, the Board is satisfied that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The names, skill and experience of the members of the Risk Committee are provided on pages 54-55.
Further details of who normally attends meetings and the Committees terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on an ongoing basis, are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate Stephen OConnor governance section of the Companys website at www.
Chairman of the Risk Committee Activities The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters This report is intended to give an understanding of the role of for which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate the Risk Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight meeting.
During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities as responsibilities for risk management and the adequacy of the set out in its terms of reference by reviewing the following: systems of internal controls in place to mitigate key risks.
The reports on risk exposures of the Company and on emerging risks The Committee was established in September 2013 following a split of The development and implementation of the Companys counterparty responsibilities of the former Audit and Risk Committee.
From 1 April risk Group-wide aggregation and monitoring tool to September, the Audit and Risk Committee considered the risk matters.
The adequacy of proposed actions to mitigate certain risk exposures During the year the Committee met twice and oversaw the implementation of new frameworks, systems and tools to manage the risks of the enlarged The effectiveness programme in place to further align the risk Group following the acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
This management framework of the Group and its subsidiaries included the further roll-out and embedding of the Enterprise-wide Regulatory compliance reports and the actions in place to ensure Risk Management Framework introduced last year.
ongoing compliance In order to avoid potential duplication of coverage and, more importantly, The effectiveness of the Risk function and roll-out status of the new risk to reduce the potential for non coverage of important risk matters, by either framework and test results the Audit or the Risk Committees, the Committee membership includes the The programme in place to consolidate Group risks including the risks Chairman of the Audit Committee.
from the newly acquired majority stake in subsidiary LCH.
Clearnet Priorities in the forthcoming year will include the Groups ongoing efforts The adequacy of the treasury limits in the area of financial risk to: further embed its Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework management and approved changes to the treasury policy and ensure appropriate application throughout the Group: further develop Papers on the potential impact of the regulatory requirements on the and implement risk tools and VaR models: further align the LSEG and CCPs of the group and related mitigating plans LCH.
Clearnet risk frameworks: and, embed the enhanced risk appetite framework.
Compliance with the Group risk management procedures as described in the section on internal controls on pages 62-64.
The Committee will review, on a rotational basis, the risk profile of each of its main lines of business and key legal entities.
In addition the Committee oversaw the process that led to the ratification of the Group Risk Appetite by the Board.
Risk Management function During the year, the risk function continued the roll-out of the new Group Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework launched during the previous Stephen OConnor year.
The Committee has been monitoring the roll-out programme.
Chairman of the Risk Committee As part of its mandate the Committee reviews, at least three times a year, the risk profile of the Group and comments on the adequacy of the processes Risk Committee meeting attendance in place to identify and report on key risks.
The Board as a whole reviews the in the year ended 31 March 2014 Group risk profile at least twice a year.
It also received reports on compliance with relevant regulatory requirements for each regulated entity of the Group.
Scheduled Ad hoc Total Steven OConnor 2 2 0 2 2 The risk management function is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who Paul Heiden 2 2 0 2 2 oversees all aspects of risk management in the Group.
She reports to the Stuart Lewis 2 2 0 2 2 Chief Executive Officer and, for independence purposes, to the Chairman of Andrea Munari 2 2 0 2 2 the Risk Committee.
The Committee must be consulted on the appointment or the dismissal of the Chief Risk Officer.
