CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 32 Corporate governance report Board leadership Board composition My primary job as Chairman of the Board is to ensure that collectively its members have the right set of skills, capability and experience to understand the context and drivers of the business, to contribute to the development of strategy, to monitor performance and to provide an appropriate balance of support and challenge for the executive team.
Ibelieve that with the conclusion of our non-executive search at the end of last year, we are now well placed to meet these demands.
We benefit from a good balance of non-executive directors with various lengths of tenure on our Board.
Andrew Horton and Dev Sanyal were appointed in 2013 and have now completed a full financial year with us.
Matthew Lester and Nina Shapiro are in their second three year term.
Phillip Colebatch, our Senior Independent Director, is the most experienced of the non-executive team and is in his third term.
Biographical details of our Jon Aisbitt, Chairman six independent non-executive directors, three of whom bring valuable experience from their executive roles in other listed companies, are given on pages 30 and 31, together with an indication of the key areas of their Overview contribution.
These pages also provide previous career details of the As discussed in my Chairmans statement, 2014 was a year of executive directors.
Further details of our Board succession planning and significant progress for the Group.
Building on the work done search activity are given in my Nomination Committee report on page 42. the previous year to reduce the cost base and downsize the business to align with future asset flows, the Boards focus Key Board relationships was on creating the potential for future growth.
Acquisition Of key importance to the effective operation of the Board is my opportunities featured on every Board agenda, with three relationship with Manny Roman, our CEO, and Phillip Colebatch, our meetings being dedicated solely to the review, challenge and Senior Independent Director.
My role is to run the Board while Mannys approval process.
At the same time, the Board continued its is to run the business.
Phillip is available to act as an intermediary with focus on the Companys other strategic priorities with ongoing other non-executive directors or with our shareholders as and when review of investment manager performance, progress on global required.
Full details of our three complementary roles are given on our sales and distribution and the maintenance of cost discipline.
Manny keeps me closely updated on progress and developments in the business and, together The Board has supported the executive team in the development of with Jonathan Sorrell, our CFO, and our Company Secretary, we management talent and the culture of excellence and accountability discuss the management of the forward agenda and Board information which are the life blood of the business and critical to the achievement needs.
I regularly test with Phillip my thinking on Board development of all our objectives.
The Board discussed with management the andrelationships.
development of a set of principles to capture the business values and behaviours which the Company stands for and which should be adopted Directors attendance at main Board meetings in 2014 by all staff Group wide in their dealings with clients and colleagues.
We Attendance record have pursued the talent agenda through regular discussion with our CEO on key hires and internal succession.
We have analysed and discussed Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 10 10 1 the extent of gender diversity within the business and encouraged the Phillip Colebatch 9 10 1 executive team to identify those areas of the firm where women can add Andrew Horton 9 10 2 most value and to set long-term goals for increasing their number.
Fred Jolly 3 3 Matthew Lester 10 10 Following the retirement of Fred Jolly at the 2014 AGM, the Nomination Emmanuel Roman 10 10 1 Committee conducted a search for a new non-executive director with Dev Sanyal 9 10 broad industry experience and the capability and skills to serve as a Nina Shapiro 10 10 member of the Remuneration Committee.
After a prolonged search for Jonathan Sorrell 10 10 the right candidate, we were delighted to announce the appointment of John Cryan, former CFO of UBS AG and currently a member of the Notes: Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank and Chairman of the Banks 1 Owing to conflicting business commitments, Phillip Colebatch, Andrew Horton and Dev Sanyal were unable to attend certain meetings which were convened at short Audit Committee.
The Chairman of our Remuneration Committee has notice.
However, they each received and reviewed the papers to be considered, continued our engagement with our top shareholders with a series of raised related questions with the executive team and indicated to the Chairman, further meetings to explain and discuss our directors remuneration inadvance of the meeting, their support for the proposals put forward.
2 Fred Jolly retired from the Board at the 2014 AGM in May.
The Audit and Risk Committee provided specific support for the Boards review of the risk issues and financial disclosures relating to the Numeric acquisition and ongoing support for the Boards responsibility to publish financial statements which are fair, balanced andunderstandable.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 33 Regular Board business Specific areas of focus In 2014 the Board held seven regular main meetings, inclusive of a full In addition to covering the regular business discussed above, Board day strategy review, and three additional meetings dedicated to the meeting agendas develop organically in line with the Companys strategic review and approval of proposed acquisitions.
At every regular meeting priorities and the impact on the business of changes in financial markets, we review and discuss investment performance and fund flows, senior regulatory trends and other external factors.
Our Board strategy review management changes, progress against budget and the delivery of in June commenced with a presentation by the Chief Risk Officer on the the cost plan, forecast profit for the year and investor sentiment and emerging risks likely to impact the business in the short-medium-term.
We receive management reports on our capital and liquidity This was followed by discussion with a leading industry figure on their position and changes in the Groups risk profile.
The Chairmen of the external view of Man Group and its positioning in the market.
Together three principal Board Committees Audit and Risk, Remuneration and these viewpoints provided a backdrop to the Boards detailed review of Nomination present a summary of issues raised, decisions made and each of the Companys investment engines, progress on global sales and recommendations proposed at recent Committee meetings which marketing, acquisition opportunities and the challenge of penetrating the arenoted and discussed further by the Boardas required.
These discussions allowed the Board to identify those issues which it wished to explore further with management later in the year.
To support the Boards role of providing direction for the business, agreeing strategy, determining its risk appetite and maintaining an The table below and on the following page gives a comprehensive appropriate control framework, it has adopted a schedule of matters picture of areas of Board focus and decision making during 2014.
These which are reserved for Board decision rather than being delegated to advanced the Companys strategic priorities, challenged and supported the CEO and his management team.
These include the approval of the executive agenda and provided appropriate governance of the major acquisitions and disposals, changes in capital structure, Group business and its resources.
The table is followed by an explanation of budgets and borrowing, and financial reporting and communications.
the work done by the Board in respect of its specific responsibility for the The full list of matters reserved is available on our website www.
oversight of risk management and financial reporting.
com board-governance together with the terms of reference of the three principal Committees to which the Board has delegated specific .
Key areas of Board focus and decision in 2014 Investment performance Distribution In depth analysis at the annual strategy review of the performance In-depth discussion at the annual strategy review of the global of individual investment managers and strategies.
Regular sales and marketing strategy and progress to date.
Particular follow-up reporting at every Board meeting including face to face focus on Asia Pacific, EMEA and the key US market.
discussion with investment management teams.
Analysis and discussion with Sales team of flows and income, Ongoing monitoring of performance against peers and challenge drivers of redemption, new client relationships and sales strategy of areas of underperformance.
Discussed management plans for for each investment manager.
Fund flows and future prospects changes in portfolio strategy and teams to address any shortfall.
discussed with the CEO at every meeting.
Presentations on and discussion of investment research, Reviewed sales plan for the introduction of Numeric quant including research into Momentum and the work of the Oxfordstrategies to core European clients and the development of Man Institute.
UCITS formats for Numeric products.
Challenged institutional sales strategy and team resource and development.
Talent and culture M&A growth Received an update from the CEO at every meeting on Extensive and in-depth work on the review and approval of all the proposed key role changes and new hire search.
Discussed acquisitions proposed and completed during the year involving areas ofvulnerability in terms of motivation and retention and scrutiny of the business case, challenge of due diligence findings actionproposed.
and approval of shareholder documentation and disclosure.
Requested an analysis of gender diversity within Man Group.
Review of the evolving shape and management of Man Groups Noted the low level of female representation in investment US footprint and the adequacy of executive bandwidth for management and technology roles and the comparison with the oversight of the enlarged Group.
equivalent data for other listed asset manager peers.
Discussed Ongoing focus on the integration of businesses acquired and the the gender diversity and inclusion initiatives currently being achievement against plan.
Scrutiny of performance against KPIs pursued internally and with external partners.
Encouraged the executive management team to establish a clear Specific review and analysis of the FRM acquisition in terms of view of the value of diversity to the business, to focus their effort FUM, profits and management talent.
on areas of maximum impact and to articulate long-term goals.
Face to face meeting with the Numeric CEO to explore the Challenged and supported the executive management team on Numeric investment process, the existing client base, product the development of six business principles for roll-out Group development and marketing plans across Man Groups wide to promote common values and behaviours both internally distribution network.
Ongoing challenge of the executive team in their use of regulatory capital to support Man Groups strategy.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 34 Corporate governance report continued Key areas of Board focus and decision in 2014 continued Business performance Cost efficiency and capital management Approved the 2015 Budget and the 2015 17 Medium-Term Reviewed progress against the achievement of Phase II cost Plan.
Reviewed an analysis of the forecast contribution to net savings at every meeting.
Discussed the risks to the longmanagement and performance fee revenues by investment term sustainability of the current cost base and the scope for manager and the respective margins for each.
expansion of the business without material cost increase.
Requested and reviewed an analysis of incremental management Regularly reviewed the Companys current and future forecast and performance fee profitability by product type.
regulatory capital and liquidity positions, including downside Reviewed the impact on the Groups KPIs of acquisitions made scenarios.
Set regulatory capital movement limits which would during the year and approved the adoption of a fourth specific require Board notification and discussion.
investment performance metric for Numeric to blend with the Annual review and agreement on an appropriate cost of capital existing benchmarks for AHL, GLG and FRM.
for the Group against which to measure returns from proposed new investment.
Approved the issue of $150m lower Tier 2 debt to fund the expansion of the Groups seeding programme and facilitate organic growth.
Discussed the governance of the programme and requested regular updates on seeding decisions and investment returns.
Recommended and approved dividends and share buybacks in line with the Companys previously disclosed distribution policy.
Risk appetite and review Regulation and FCA engagement Reviewed and adopted updated risk appetite statements which Noted and considered the feedback from the FCAs supervisory quantify Man Groups risk appetite across the various categories visit and deep dive review of the GLG Total Return Fund and of risk.
Discussed the implications of this quantification for the concluded that the Companys response to the points raised was Groups ongoing activity.
Sought management update on any material Annual Board risk review focused on potential external risks, procedural changes introduced in relation to the FCA findings.
their likelihood and possible mitigants.
Reviewed the Group Risk Discussed points raised by the FCA in their meeting with the Dashboard covering internal risks at every meeting.
Chairman including commission sharing arrangements, the Reviewed and approved an updated risk governance framework potential for the creation of systemic risk through the use of for the Group which identified committees and individuals with leverage and derivative strategies in fund products, and the risk governance responsibility and oversight.
impact on trading prices of dark pools.
Received reports from the Audit and Risk Committee on the Received an update from the Head of Global Compliance and outcomes of specific business unit risk presentations.
Regulatory on the current proposals relating to commission Carried out a full year end review of the effectiveness of the sharing and the Companys engagement with regulatory Groups risk management and internal control processes.
This framework is managed through a process whereby control owners Board accountability certify that key preventative and detective controls have been performed and are operating effectively.
These include balance sheet reconciliations Board responsibility for risk management and internal controls and financial statement preparation processes.
A sample of these control The Board is required to maintain sound risk management and internal certifications is independently spot checked to provide assurance that control systems, to review their effectiveness and to report on this review they have been correctly certified.
Information on Man Groups risk management and internal control systems, which have been in place throughout the year During the year formal monitoring of the results of the certification and up to the date of this report, can be found in the Risk management process is carried out by senior management.
Any material points of section on pages 22 to 25.
Details of Man Groups specificrisk noteare escalated to the Audit and Risk Committee ARCom.
management and internal control systems in relation to the financial reporting process are given below.
Board review of risk management and internal control systems The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, Financial reporting controls maintain proper accounting records and provide assurance that the Man Group operates a financial controls framework which is designed financial information used in the business and published externally is to provide assurance that proper accounting records are adequately robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks, maintained and that financial information used within the business and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, for external publication is reliable and free from material misstatement, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against thereby safeguarding the Companys assets.
The systems comply with the guidance given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the 2005 Turnbullguidance.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 35 The Board has delegated oversight of risk management and systems Financial reporting ofinternal control to the ARCom.
This oversight includes the regular Fair, balanced and understandable reviewof: The Board has enhanced its processes for the review of the Companys half-year and full-year financial statements to support its responsibility summary dashboards for each of risk, internal controls, the financial for presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the controls framework and compliance: Companys position and prospects and providing in the Annual report reports from the Risk and Finance Committee which replaced the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys separate Risk Assurance and Finance Committees from September performance, business model and strategy.
Key elements of these 2014 which considers the effectiveness of risk mitigation through processes are: regular review of Risk and Control Self-Assessments carried out by management as the first line of defence, scenario analysis, key risk all contributors to the Companys financial statements and Annual report indicators and operational risk event reports: and are made aware of the fair, balanced and understandable requirement: reports from Internal Audit regarding the operation and effectiveness of early drafts of the half-year and Annual report are circulated to the internal controls.
The audit programme is designed to provide objective Board with a briefing note which a highlights any issues of fairness or assurance on the business areas, key controls and processes that are balance which management have considered in their preparation and most significant in terms of the Groups risk profile.
b discusses those areas of the Annual report which are considered most relevant for shareholders understanding of the Companys The report from the Chairman of the ARCom on pages 38 to 41 provides strategy, business model and performance: further information on how the ARCom has discharged its risk oversight the ARCom, at the request of the Board, carries out a page by page responsibilities during the year.
review of the half-year and Annual report, with particular focus on the consistency between the narrative and the financial statements: As part of its risk oversight responsibilities, a number of operational and the Board reviews early drafts of the reports, together with the regulatory matters which had occurred during the year were reported to ARComs conclusions and recommendations, at a dedicated meeting the ARCom in the normal course of business.
Whilst Man Group sought well in advance of the final review and sign-off date.
This provides to improve its processes as a result, these matters were not considered ample time for debate and evaluation of any issues arising: sufficiently material in number or nature either to require separate there is extensive review and verification by Executive Committee disclosure in the financial statements or to indicate that the control members and the heads of relevant business units to support the environment had not been working effectively.
accuracy of the disclosures: and careful attention is given throughout the review process to the balance The Board receives regular reports from the Chairman of ARCom, between reporting on positive and negative performance and to the business management and Group Risk on the risks to the achievement of tone of the language used, particularly in respect of future prospects the Groups operational and financial objectives, together with assurance and outlook.
that the level of risk sustained is consistent with and being managed in Board effectiveness accordance with the Boards risk appetite.
These reports include current and forward looking assessments of capital and liquidity adequacy and Non-executive director contribution asummary risk dashboard.
Our non-executive directors bring a valuable external viewpoint and scrutiny to proposals debated by the Board.
Through their roles outside Year end review of risk management and internal controls Man Group they have wide ranging knowledge of the global macroIn addition to its ongoing monitoring of risk controls, the Board has economic trends which may impact our business.
Their broad business conducted a specific year end review of the effectiveness of the Groups experience enables them to bring substantial challenge to the appraisal risk management and internal control systems during the 12 months and of potential acquisitions.
They question budgets, the accuracy of our for the period up to the date of this Annual report.
This review covered forecasting and the sustainability of our cost base.
They offer insights into all material risks and included a review of all significant operational the development and promotion of company values and gender diversity risk events and Internal Audit findings raised during the period.
The from their involvement in other firms.
Board also considered the potential impact of certain risks identified by the business, the outcome of the firm-wide Risk and Control SelfI seek to maximise non-executive directors contribution to Board Assessment process performed by business management and the affairs in a number of ways.
On the rare occasions when a conflicting quality of the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
business commitment means that a non-executive director is unable to attend a meeting, I ensure that their views are obtained and any queries Following this review, the Board concluded that the Groups risk answered by the executive team in advance of the meeting.
Informal management processes were effective and that there were no significant non-executive director dinners give me the opportunity to find out more weaknesses or failings in the system of internal controls.
about their thinking on the business and supplement formal Nomination Committee discussions on executive team development.
Non-executives are requested to seek my advice before accepting any new business appointments in order that I can make a judgement on any negative impact on their time commitment to Man Group and any potential conflict with our business.
In line with our internal governance requirements, details of any changes in directors external business appointments and interests are reported to the Board for approval on a continuing basis with a full schedule being circulated for endorsement at the end of each year.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36 Corporate governance report continued Board induction Evaluation findings and 2015 priorities To help new non-executive directors get up to speed with our business The general view emerging from the 2014 evaluation was that the Board as quickly as possible, we offer a comprehensive induction programme was increasingly focused and effective.
Following the non-executive which involves one to one meetings with our Executive Committee appointments made in 2013, it now benefited from a broader range members, the Company Secretary and the Heads of Group functions.
of skills and experience and its newer members were making a full Relevant briefing materials are circulated in advance and follow up and valued contribution.
The culture of openness and transparency meetings arranged as appropriate.
Board Committee members are espoused by the executive directors resulted in a fully engaged Board introduced to the operation of those Committees by the Committee which encouraged challenge and the expression of opposing views Secretary and supporting material is provided by the Companys while remaining collegiate and supportive of management.
New Board members are invited to provide information and analyses provided by management were of a high feedback on the programme they receive to help keep it refreshed quality and Board requests for further detail or review were always and well targeted.
They are also encouraged to seek updates on positivelyreceived.
any topics which arise in the course of subsequent Board meetings on which they would like further information.
Details of our induction With the Boards broad knowledge and experience base and strong programme for non-executive directors are given on our website culture of open and constructive engagement, there was a feeling www.
that it should be able to do even better.
A number of development areas were proposed and agreed for focus in 2015 as detailed below.
Continuing education Certain of these, such as the pursuit of competitor intelligence and the Board members regularly identify in the course of Board discussions consolidation of Board knowledge of the business and management business areas about which they would like a better understanding talent, are ongoing essentials for Board effectiveness and will continue and time is made available in scheduled Board meetings or pre-Board the progressmade in these areas in previous years.
In 2014 there was a focus on AHL with presentations on the operation of Momentum strategies and other Close scrutiny of the performance of acquisitions against plan.
areas of research being pursued by the Oxford-Man Institute.
Further More granular review of progress on specific strategic priorities, education on our quant businesses was provided by the CEO of Numeric including Institutional Sales and the US market.
who talked to the Board about the Numeric investment process and Continue building and updating Board members knowledge of the opportunities for marketing their product across the Companys competitor strategy and activities, including external insights.
In 2015 attention is expected to turn to the Continue building Board members knowledge of Man Groups evolutionof FRM and the development of our CLO business.
Continue creating opportunities for engagement with Executive To help keep non-executives updated on regulatory and governance Committee members and senior management in the tier below.
issues impacting their Board Committee responsibilities, the Company Advance and monitor the embedding of the Companys business Secretary circulates details of relevant development programmes run by principles across the Group.
These supplement reports and discussion on changes in regulatory requirements by our auditors, advisers and the Company Individual director evaluation Secretary in the course of Board meetings.
The Board has been As in previous years, I had one to one meetings with individual directors made aware in this context of the changes introduced by the 2014 UK to discuss their personal contributions to the Board and to explore any Corporate Governance Code which will apply to the Company for the development needs.
The Senior Independent Director led a review of 2015 reporting year and it will be considering its response to the new my own contribution as Chairman, taking account of the views of all the requirements in the course of the year.
directors, and discussed their feedback with me.
Shareholder engagement 2014 Board evaluation The Company actively engages with investors and investor representative The Board decided, in view of the ongoing recruitment of a new nonbodies and welcomes the opportunity to discuss their views on executive director, to conduct an internal Board evaluation in 2014 and to relevant issues.
Details of the Boards exposure to and consideration carry out the next external evaluation in 2015 when the Board would be ofshareholder views and market sentiment are given below.
It was also recognised that fresh perspectives and challenge on the Boards operation during 2014 would be provided by Deloitte LLP Institutional investors as the Companys new auditors who took up their appointment in the Our Head of Investor Relations and our executive directors maintain course of the year.
acontinuous dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
Our The 2014 evaluation, which was facilitated by the Company Secretary, executive directors held in excess of 100 such meetings during 2014 asked Board members to give their assessment of a number of areas of andare in regular contact with analysts and other market commentators.
Suggestions for improvement were requested As Chairman, I attend results presentations to analysts and investors in each case.
The assessment included areas which had been identified and at the end of each year I meet with key institutional investors to for attention in the previous years evaluation, current issues such as the supplement their contact with the executive team.
This provides investors Boards consideration of business values, and ongoing key aspects of with the opportunity to discuss any particular areas of focus and raise the Boards remit.
The findings of the evaluation were presented to and any concerns which I can then report back to my Board colleagues.
discussed by the Board and priority areas of focus for 2015 agreed.
Topics discussed at my meetings this year included the Boards strategic focus for 2015, our progress in the US market and executive directorsuccession.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 37 The Board receives and discusses regular updates from our Head of Statement of compliance Investor Relations regarding changes in the top shareholders on our The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2014, share register, feedback from institutional investors and key commentary applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of the UK from the sell-side analyst community.
There is a particular focus on Corporate Governance Code dated September 2012 the Code shareholder and market reaction to our full and half-year results and except in the following respects: interim management statements.
In July the Board received detailed and positive feedback from investors on the proposed acquisition of Numeric.
Assessment of effectiveness of audit process Provision C. 3.8 of the Code requires that the report from the Audit and The Board regularly receives brokers notes and sell-side views and Risk Committee should include an explanation of how the Committee discusses underlying performance assumptions.
It also reviews and has assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
discusses with the executive team draft presentations to analysts and Following the appointment of Deloitte LLP as Man Groups auditors investors in relation to the Companys half-year and final results.
for the year ended 31 December 2014, the Committee believes that it will be better placed to assess the effectiveness of the audit process Engagement on remuneration issues following the completion of Deloittes first audit cycle.
As reported As part of our continuing engagement on directors remuneration, in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 41, the Committee theRemuneration Committee Chairman and Company Secretary held intends to undertake an assessment of the effectiveness of the audit a series of meetings with some of our top investors and with certain process in 2015 and will report the outcome of its review in the Audit shareholder representative bodies in the course of the year and early and Risk Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015. in 2015 to respond to issues raised by shareholders on the Companys No issues have been identified during the year in relation to Deloittes remuneration resolutions at the 2014 AGM.
Details of the issues performance and effectiveness as external auditors.
raised and discussed at these meetings are included in the Directors remuneration report on page 44.
The Remuneration Committee intends Remuneration Committee membership to continue this open engagement on our remuneration policy and Provision D. 2.1 of the Code requires the Remuneration Committee practice in 2015 and welcomes feedback from shareholders on these to consist of at least three independent directors.
Following the matters at any time.
retirement of Fred Jolly at the AGM on 9 May 2014, our Remuneration Committee comprised only two independent directors, Phillip Private investors Colebatch and Nina Shapiro, in addition to our Chairman, for the We encourage our private investors to use our website to access the remainder of the year.
John Cryan was appointed as an independent Companys interim and annual reports and our half-year and final non-executive director and as a member of the Remuneration results presentations to analysts.
The website provides a wealth of other Committee on 15 January 2015, bringing the total number of information about the business and of interest to shareholders such as independent Remuneration Committee members to three.
Shareholders can use the site to access our Registrars Shareview website www.
co. uk to enable them to Setting executive directors and Chairmans remuneration manage their shareholding account online.
We are always keen to hear Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the Remuneration the views of private investors and offer a dedicated shareholder mailbox Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting the shareholder@man.
remuneration of all the executive directors and the Chairman.
The terms of reference of Man Groups Remuneration Committee Shareholder meetings provide that the Committee only has authority to recommend, for At our 2014 AGM last May, Manny Roman gave shareholders an approval by the Board, executive directors remuneration and the overviewof the progress of the business and our future plans and 1 remuneration of the Chairman.
The Board believes that, given the outlook.
This was followed by the opportunity for shareholders to importance for the business of motivating the executive team to ask questions about the resolutions before the meeting and about deliver the Companys strategy, it is appropriate for all non-executive the business more generally.
In September we were pleased to invite Board members, rather than just those who sit on the Remuneration shareholders to the general meeting convened to approve the Numeric Committee, to determine the executive directors compensation.
This provided an opportunity for us to explain how the It also believes that, in order to provide transparency and allow the acquisition was aligned with our strategic objectives and to answer views of all the directors, executive and non-executive, to be taken related shareholder questions.
into account, it is appropriate for all Board members to determine the Chairmans remuneration.
We look forward to providing a further business update at our 2015 AGM in May this year.
1 This authority is given subject to the proviso that no Board member should participate in the recommendation or approval of his or her compensation.
Jon Aisbitt Other information Chairman Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share capital, the powers of the directors and amendments to the articles of association that is required to be disclosed in the Corporate governance report pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors report on pages 65 to 66.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
