CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 38 Audit and Risk Committee report The Board Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Global Compliance and Regulatory, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings.
At the end of each formal meeting, the Committee meets with the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors without management being present.
Following each Committee meeting, Icommunicate the key discussion points and make recommendations tothe Board asappropriate.
I also attend agenda setting meetings in advance of each Committee meeting along with representatives from the senior management team in order to identify key issues impacting the business that require consideration by the Committee.
I meet privately with the Head of InternalAudit following each of these meetings.
Matthew Lester, Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Committee roles and responsibilities: F Financial reporting During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee continued to focus its attention on the integrity of the Groups Monitor the integrity of the financial information contained in the financial reporting and the effectiveness of its risk management interim and annual financial statements with particular focus on: key accounting policies and judgements: and processes and internal controls.
Review: Following the Committees recommendation to appoint Deloitte statements contained in the annual report relating to the Committee as the Groups external auditors for the year ended 31 December and the Companys internal controls and risk management: and 2014, I am pleased to report that audit services have successfully the effectiveness of the financial controls framework please refer transitioned from PwC to Deloitte during the year.
to page 34 for further details.
Advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the annual and We have made a number of changes to the Committees forward interim report and accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
agenda during the year which have enabled us to further our understanding of the significant risk issues facing some of the R Risk management, internal controls and compliance Groups key business areas and the processes and controls Review the effectiveness of: thathave been implemented to mitigate such risks.
the Groups Risk Framework and policies and processes for the identification, assessment and management of risk: Composition and attendance the Groups internal controls in line with Turnbull guidance As reported in last years Audit and Risk Committee Report, a number pleaserefer to pages 3435 for further details of the Committees of changes were made to the composition of the Committee in 2013 to review of the Groups internal controls : strengthen its breadth of skills and experience.
These changes have been the Groups regulatory reporting activities and Compliance embedded during 2014. function:and the Groups arrangements for its staff to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors Report to the Remuneration Committee any findings in relation and Andrew Horton, Dev Sanyal and I are the members considered to risk matters which may impact their decision on discretionary to have relevant and recent financial experience as required by the UK remuneration payments.
Further details of the experience of all IA Internal audit Committee members can be found in their biographies on pages 30 and 31.
Committee members are encouraged to remain up-to-date with Approve the annual Internal Audit Plan and Charter and Internal accounting and regulatory changes to support their role on the Committee Audit activities.
through the normal course of their work and through externally facilitated Review the remit and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
seminars, details of which are made available to all Committee members.
Review all significant Internal Audit recommendations and oversee the progress in addressing these.
During the year, we met on seven occasions and our attendance at these meetings is set out in the table below: EA External audit Recommend the appointment, and determine the remuneration, Attendance record of the external auditors, including reviewing their effectiveness Matthew Lester Chair 7 7 andindependence.
Review and approve the Audit Plan and the external auditors Phillip Colebatch 7 7 1 controlprocedures.
Andrew Horton 6 7 Review the findings of the audit and the external auditors Dev Sanyal 7 7 management letter and oversee management action to address findings where necessary.
1 Owing to conflicting business commitments, Andrew Horton was not able to attend Approve and monitor the policies relating to the provision of nonone meeting during the year.
However, he received and reviewed the papers to be audit services by the external auditors and the hiring of personnel considered in advance of the meeting and directed questions to the Chairman which from the external auditors.
were addressed in the meeting.
Arrange for the external audit to be put out to tender as often as is required by applicable law, rules, regulations and best practice.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 39 Roles, responsibilities and processes respond to any queries raised by the Committee in respect of these The Committee is integral to Man Groups governance framework and papers.
At each meeting, the Committee reviews dashboards on the key its primary role is to support the Board by assessing the integrity of the risks impacting the business, compliance matters, the financial controls Groups financial reporting, monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups framework and internal controls.
The purpose of these dashboards is risk management and internal controls, and overseeing the activities to highlight any significant matters or developments which may require ofthe Groups Internal Audit function and its external auditors.
further consideration by the Committee.
The Committees roles and responsibilities, derived from its full terms of Key items considered during the year F EA reference available at www.
com audit-and-risk committee, which Financial reporting and accounting matters are reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis, are summarised Accounting judgements onthe opposite page.
During the year, the Committee considered the key accounting judgements and policies adopted by management in respect of the The Committee has an annual forward agenda in place with agenda full-year and interim financial statements and confirmed that these items scheduled to coincide with key events in the annual financial were appropriate.
The significant areas of judgement identified by the reporting cycle, specific risk matters that the Committee has identified, Committee, in conjunction with management and the external auditors, and standing items that the Committee is required to consider in related to the acquisition of Numeric and Pine Grove, goodwill impairment accordance with its terms of reference.
testing, taxation, investment in funds and adjusting items.
Details of their consideration and conclusions are set out below.
Management submit reports and presentations to the Committee on key financial reporting, risk, compliance and audit matters and attend meetings as previously described to highlight salient issues and to Note in financial Area of judgement statements Role of Committee Conclusion Acquisition accounting 12 The Committee reviewed a paper prepared by The Committee confirmed During 2014, the Group acquired Numeric management outlining the key assumptions that it was satisfied with the and Pine Grove resulting in the application of complex underpinning the valuation of Numeric and judgements presented by accounting judgements in order to establish the fair Pine Grove.
The key areas of focus were the management.
value of the acquired businesses.
fair value of the deferred consideration and the total purchase price attributed to the assets andliabilities in the acquired businesses.
Goodwill impairment 12 The Committee considered a report from The Committee concluded Goodwill for each of the Groups business units is management outlining the methodology for that no impairment tested for impairment through the application of a the impairment assessment and challenged expense was required to value in use model.
This is judgemental in nature as the assumptions underpinning the goodwill be recorded for the year it requires estimates concerning future cash flows, valuation model including discount rates, cash ended 31 December 2014. growth rates and associated discount rates to be flow projections, terminal value exit multiples taken into account.
Taxation 9 The Committee considered managements The Committee agreed The Group has historically made a number of proposal to release a tax provision in respect to release the tax provisions for taxation across several jurisdictions.
of one of Man Groups legacy operations on provision in accordance Due to a change of circumstances in 2014, it has the basis that this no longer represented a with managements been proposed that a proportion of these provisions significant tax exposure.
Following the acquisition of Numeric and Pine Grove, The Committee reassessed the recognition It was agreed that a it was proposed that a deferred tax asset in respect of deferred tax in respect of previously proportion of the Groups ofhistoric tax losses be recognised.
unrecognised deferred tax assets, particularly deferred tax assets would in the Groups US operations, following the be recognised in the year acquisition of Numeric.
Investments in funds 15 The Committee reviewed managements The Committee concluded The Group holds investments in a number of funds assessment of the investments which the Group that it was satisfied which it manages.
Judgement is required to be is deemed to control in line with IFRS 10.
This with managements exercised in terms of assessing whether these involved understanding the structure of certain assessment of which investments are controlled by the Group.
The investments in order to establish whether the nature entities are deemed to accounting treatment will vary depending on the of the Groups control fell within the definition of be controlled by Man outcome of this assessment.
control under the accounting standards.
Group and the associated accounting treatment.
Adjusting items 2 The Committee reviewed and challenged the The Committee concluded The directors focus on profit before adjusting items adjusting items contained in the consolidated that the adjusting items adjusted profit as this reflects the underlying trends in financial statements and considered whether were appropriate and the business and the recurring revenue and costs that there was consistency of approach from period provided a fair assessment drive the Groups future cash flows.
Adjusting items to period and the maintenance of an appropriate of the underlying profitability relate to non-recurring items or those resulting from symmetry between losses and gains and the ofthe business.
acquisition and disposal related transactions.
reversal of any accruals previously classified as adjusting items.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 40 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Review of key functional areas At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the Representatives from Man Groups Technology and Operations team and interim and annual reports were fair, balanced and understandable and Business Operational Risk team were invited to attend several Committee provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess Man meetings during the year to provide updates on outsourcing initiatives, Groups performance, business model and strategy.
At its meeting in cyber-security and changes to the processes around systems access for February 2015, the Committee reviewed the financial statements in joiners, leavers and internal transfers.
conjunction with the narrative sections of the annual report to ensure that there was consistency in terms of the information reported.
The teams were also requested to present to the Committee on TheCommittee concluded that, taken as a whole, the annual report improvements that had been made during the year to the controls isfair, balanced and understandable.
around the Groups rebates and commissions.
It is anticipated that the introduction of an integrated technology platform to automate the rebates F R EA Acquisition of Numeric and commissions process will strengthen these controls further: however, As reported elsewhere, the Group completed the acquisition of Numeric this is an area that the Committee intends to keep under review in 2015. in September 2014.
An ad hoc meeting of the Committee was convened R in Q2 2014 to consider the financial and risk implications of the proposed Compliance acquisition.
As the acquisition was categorised as a Class 1 transaction Compliance continued to be a key area of focus for the Committee during in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules, the Company was required the year, particularly given Man Groups increased regulatory exposure to issue a circular to its shareholders for approval.
The Committee in the US following the acquisition of Numeric and Pine Grove and the carefully reviewed and challenged certain financial information contained registration of two of the Groups investment management entities with in the circular which included a working capital assessment, financial US regulatory bodies.
statements of Numeric and a pro-forma net asset statement and recommended their approval to the Board.
During the year, the 2014 Compliance Plan was presented to the Committee which outlined the key objectives for the Compliance team in Following the completion of the acquisition, the Committee has reviewed 2014.
Progress that had been achieved in meeting these objectives was an integration heat map to identify the key integration risks associated reported during the year.
Towards the end of 2014, I met with the Head of with the acquisition and the potential impact of such risks materialising Global Compliance and Regulatory to discuss the 2015 Compliance Plan over the integration period.
which will be presented to the Committee in the course of H1 2015.
R IA F IA Oversight of risk and control environment Internal audit Review of key business areas The Groups Internal Audit function was outsourced to KPMG in 2013.
During the year, a number of changes were made to the structure of During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the 2015 Internal the Committees forward agenda which were intended to increase the Audit Plan which provided an overview of the internal audits to be Committee members understanding of the risks and controls in key performed in 2015 together with an estimate of days and costs required business areas.
Representatives from AHL, GLG and FRM were invited to to deliver the Plan.
present to the Committee on the strategy and the risk and control profile of their respective business areas.
The purpose of these presentations The Committee considered comprehensive progress reports presented was to enable the Committee to assess, in context, the significant risks by Internal Audit to each meeting and challenged timescales and perceived by each business area and the controls in place to mitigate ratings allocated to various reports where appropriate.
No significant these risks to the extent desired.
weaknesses were identified in any of the Internal Audit reports although certain improvements to processes and procedures were made as a As part of this assessment, each business unit provided an overview of its result of the reviews.
business structure and identified key risk areas using a SWOT Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats analysis.
The Committee was Last years Audit and Risk Committee Report indicated that the advised how these risks are mitigated through certain controls including Committee intended to review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit the Risk and Control Self-Assessment process and the operation of function in 2014 in order to assess whether the function was meeting key Systems and Controls Committees SYSC.
The presentations also stakeholder objectives.
This review, which involved interviews with key included input from Group Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit to enable stakeholders, was conducted in the second half of 2014.
The outcome of each governance function to highlight any key areas from their perspective these interviews indicated that the engagement with KPMG was viewed that should be brought to the Committees attention.
The intention is that positively and that members of the management team would value a similar exercise will be conducted in 2015 for the Groups Sales function increased interaction with the Internal Audit function.
and the recently acquired Numericbusiness.
EA External audit Following the audit tender process led by the Committee in 2013, Deloitte LLP were formally appointed as the Groups external auditors by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2014.
In October 2014, I met with representatives from Deloitte to discuss the 2014 Audit Plan in considerable detail, particularly the key judgemental accounting areas.
The main discussion points were subsequently reported to my fellow Committee members.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 41 Review of non-audit services policy Effectiveness of external audit process The Group has in place a policy for the provision of non-audit services Given the extensive review that was undertaken in respect of Deloitte by the external auditors, the purpose of which is to safeguard the as part of the audit tender process reported in last years Audit and independence and objectivity of the external auditors by prohibiting Risk Committee Report, the Committee believes that, at this stage, it is themfrom providing certain services.
premature to assess comprehensively and report meaningfully on the effectiveness of the audit process for the year ended 31 December 2014.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the non-audit services Instead, the Committee intends to evaluate the external audit process policyand approved a number of changes that had been proposed following the completion of the first audit.
The results of the evaluation will which included: be reported in the Committees report for the year ending 31 December 2015.
No issues have been highlighted during the year in relation to the introduction of a cap on non-audit fees as a percentage Deloittes performance and effectiveness.
of thestatutory audit fee in accordance with forthcoming EU independence legislation: Re-appointment of external auditors the requirement to pre-approve non-audit services provided by the The Committee has recommended the re-appointment of Deloitte as the external auditors to Man Groups funds: and Groups external auditors to the Board for approval by shareholders at the the addition of a reference to the intention to avoid engaging the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
external auditors to provide tax services to corporate entities within theGroup.
Committee evaluation Outlined in the table below are the two key areas that were identified in Any potential services to be provided by the external auditors, which the Committees 2013 evaluation as requiring further consideration and are not excluded under the non-audit services policy but which have an development during 2014, together with progress that has been achieved expected value of $75,000 or more, must be approved by the Committee in 2014. in advance.
The Committees approval is also required where the 2013 evaluation 2014 progress pre-approved fees in any financial year exceed $2 million in aggregate.
Develop the Committees Strategic risks have been The table below shows the remuneration paid to the external auditorsfor the understanding and consideration considered by the Committee year ended 31 December 2014 Deloitte and 31 December 2013 PwC.
of the Groups strategic risks.
in detail through the review and challenge of a paper presented Fees paid to Deloitte Fees paid to PwC for the year ended for the year ended by management on the Groups 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 emerging risks.
$000 $000 Develop Committee members Representatives from AHL, Fees payable to the Companys 450 736 understanding of AHLs GLG and FRM have provided auditors for the audit of the Parent operational risk and control comprehensive presentations Company and the consolidated environment.
to the Committee on the risk financial statements.
and control environment of eachbusiness area.
Other services: 1,435 1,795 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation During the year the Committee conducted a further evaluation of Audit-related assurance services 265 369 itseffectiveness which was facilitated internally.
Questionnaires were circulated to all Committee members and regular attendees, the results Tax compliance services 1,056 ofwhich indicated that, overall, the Committee was operating effectively.
Tax advisory services 208 452 An area that was identified as requiring further development in 2015 Other assurance services 453 related to leveraging process improvements made during 2014 to enable All other services 82 167 the Committee to spend the maximum time available on key risk and Total auditors remuneration 2,893 4,575 financial reporting matters.
The Committee intends to keep this under review throughout 2015.
As reported in the above table, Deloitte has been engaged to provide a number of non-audit services during the year.
Perhaps of most Matthew Lester significance, is their appointment as Reporting Accountant for the Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Numeric acquisition and the issuance of $150m lower Tier 2 capital during the year please see note 14 to the financial statements for further information, which are categorised as Other assurance services in the table above.
These transactions required assurance to be given on the financial content of the shareholder circular published in connection with Numeric and the prospectus published in connection with the bond issuance.
Given Deloittes existing knowledge of the business and the resulting efficiencies that this created, it was deemed appropriate to appoint them to undertake this work.
Following an assessment of the external auditors independence and objectivity at its meeting in February 2015, the Committee concluded thatDeloitte remained independent and objective.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
