CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 42 Nomination Committee report Non-executive director succession planning Early in the year, as part of our long-term Board succession planning, we discussed and recommended to the Board the renewal of each of Matthew Lesters and Nina Shapiros appointments as non-executive directors for a second three year term, subject to their annual retirement and reappointment by shareholders at the AGM.
We then turned our attention to the search, as agreed in our 2013 Committee evaluation, foran additional non-executive director who, as well as being able to make a broad contribution to the business of the Board, had the particular expertise and experience necessary to serve on the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive director search process As the initial step in the search process, the Committee discussed the specific capabilities the candidate required for the remuneration aspect of the role.
It was agreed that the individual should have prior direct Jon Aisbitt, Nomination Committee Chairman experience of dealing with remuneration issues at senior level and within a performance driven culture where compensation levels were high.
They should also have an international outlook and an appreciation of In 2014 the Nomination Committee the Committee continued theglobal market and competition for talent within Man Groups sector.
its work on non-executive succession planning with our principal focus being on the search for a new non-executive director Having used Egon Zehnder for a number of recent non-executive with the expertise and experience necessary to be a member searches, we decided to select a different search firm for the current of the Remuneration Committee.
We were also kept abreast search and appointed Korn Ferry, who have no other connection with the of key management appointment and development plans Company, for the assignment.
As regards the review of candidate lists and challenged and discussed with the executive directors and the interview process, it was agreed that Phillip Colebatch, as Senior their ongoing initiatives topromote gender diversity in senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, management roles.
and I should review the long list and conduct the first round of interviews with other Committee members being brought into the interview and Membership and meetings selection process at the second stage.
All our non-executive directors are members of the Committee and our meetings are normally attended by Manny Roman.
We held three formal In response to the Committees request, to the extent available under meetings during 2014 as shown in the table below.
In addition, we debate the broad specification for the role, for significant female representation Committee matters informally at non-executive director dinners and take on the long list of candidates, some 25% of the names put forward were the opportunity to discuss key management appointments and gender women.
Certain of these candidates withdrew from the process at an diversity within Board meetings as these issues arise.
early stage because of the constraints of other commitments or their wish to pursue an appointment outside our industry.
Those remaining My report below discusses the specific areas of focus and decision for were then considered for the shortlist against the competencies the Committee during the year.
The Committees full terms of reference requiredtogether with the rest of the candidates.
are available on our website www.
NoCommittee member took part in discussions or decision making Selection and appointment of John Cryan relating to them personally.
After a full interview process for the shortlisted candidates, which was extended to include interviews with Matthew Lester as Chairman of the Non-executive directors attendance at Committee meetings Audit and Risk Committee and with our CEO and CFO, John Cryan emerged as the favoured candidate.
John had previously held a number Attendance record of senior roles in the Financial Institutions Group of UBS AG before being appointed to the role of Group CFO in 2008 in order to help restructure Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 3 3 the Bank and manage its relationship with the Regulator at the time Phillip Colebatch 3 3 of the financial crisis.
After leaving UBS he served as President of Andrew Horton 3 3 1 Temaseks UK operations between 2012 and 2014 and was appointed Fred Jolly 1 1 to the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank and as Chairman of the Matthew Lester 3 3 Banks Audit Committee in 2013.
It was believed that Johns extensive Dev Sanyal 3 3 technical knowledge of and insights into international markets, including Nina Shapiro 3 3 the regulatory backdrop, would enhance and strengthen the Board.
As an experienced leader in the sector who had worked at the top of Notes: the industry at one of the most challenging periods in recent history, 1 Fred Jolly retired from the Board at the 2014 AGM in May and attended one meeting held prior to his departure.
hewasalso viewed as a highly valued adviser to the executive team.
The Committee recommended John Cryans nomination to the Board and, after the receipt of positive references and the securing of FCA approval, he was appointed as a non-executive director and as a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees in January2015.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 43 Board diversity Committee evaluation and 2015 priorities The Boards policy on diversity, which is available on our website At the end of 2014 the Committee reviewed its actions and achievements www.
com board-of-directors, remains unchanged from previous during the year against the priorities agreed in the 2013 evaluation.
While our firm principle is to make Board appointments based on It was considered that the search for a new non-executive director merit and overall suitability for the role and having regard to the overall and Remuneration Committee member had been full and thorough balance of the team, we recognise the benefits that diversity, including with regular updates made to the Board throughout the process.
The diversity of gender, ethnicity, professional competence and business Committee had moved the senior management diversity agenda forward experience, can bring to our business.
Our objective is to achieve a value with the executive team, was kept regularly updated on key hires and adding and impactful percentage of women on our Board in line with senior management changes and benefited from the opportunities the spirit of the Davies Report and we pursue this opportunity with our offered by non-executive dinners for private discussion of management search consultants whenever a new appointment is being considered.
However, our experience to date, reinforced by our most recent search reported above, has shown that it is not appropriate or realistic for us to The Committee recognises that the acquisition and development of target the achievement of a specific percentage of women on our Board management talent continue to be a business imperative.
The same by a specific date.
We will, however, continue to focus on increasing the applies to the review and refreshing of the Boards skill and experience number of women on our Board when appropriate opportunities arise.
base in the light of changing business needs and individuals personal career plans.
The priorities agreed by the Committee for 2015, which Senior management diversity areset out below, reflect this ongoing agenda: As non-executive directors we continue to challenge our executive colleagues on the development of gender diversity within the senior continue the evaluation of senior management resourcing, management talent pool from which future women leaders, internal development and succession, including the identification of needs by and external, may be drawn.
Following our review of an analysis of business area and any constraints on securing the optimum talent: management talent and comparative data from asset manager peers, continue the review and promotion of gender diversity initiatives across we have identified those roles where current female representation in the senior management talent pool and monitor their achievement: and the business is weak.
We have encouraged management to establish continue work on Board development and succession planning.
a clear view of the value of diversity to the business, to focus their efforts on areas of maximum impact and to articulate long-term goals.
Managements ongoing diversity initiatives are discussed and progress Jon Aisbitt updates received.
Chairman Management development and succession planning Committee members seek regular updates from Manny Roman on progress in hiring new managers to key roles and his plans for developing and redeploying existing talent across the firm.
As part of our responsibility for the oversight of management development and succession planning, we create opportunities to increase our exposure to executives below Board level and to assess the strength and breadth of the management resource available to the business.
Executive Committee members and investment management heads are invited to update the Board on the areas of the business for which they are responsible.
They also discuss business risk and controls with the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Heads of Group functions are regular presenters to both forums.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
