Strategic report Governance Financial performance 67 Audit & Risk Committee Report What does the Audit & Risk Committee do?
Monitors the integrity of bwin.
partys financial statements and any formal Who are the members?
announcements relating to the Companys financial performance Helmut Kern Chairman and reviews, and challenges where Sylvia Coleman necessary, the actions and judgements Rod Perry of management in relation to the halfyear and annual financial statements before these are submitted to the Board Per Afrell served as a member until 22 December 2014.
All members of the Audit for final approval: & Risk Committee ARC have been determined by the Board to be independent Makes recommendations to the Board Directors and therefore bwin.
party complies with the Codes recommendation concerning any proposed, new or that an audit committee comprise at least three independent Directors.
amendment to an accounting policy: Helmut Kern serves on various boards where he oversees the preparation of financial statements and the external audit.
Therefore, he is regarded as the Meets with the external auditors Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience.
post-audit at the reporting stage to discuss the audit, including problems and reservations arising from the audit and any matters the auditor may wish How many times did ARC meet in 2014?
to discuss in the absence of bwin.
party management, where appropriate : ARC met four times in 2014 and attendance was as follows: Recommends the audit fee to the Board Attendance and total number of meetings to which and sets bwin.
partys policy on the Director the Director was entitled to attend provision of non-audit services by the Per Afrell 4 4 external auditor: Sylvia Coleman 4 4 Considers and make recommendations to Helmet Kern 4 4 the Board about the appointments of the Rod Perry 4 4 head of the internal audit function and also the external auditors as well as the The Company Secretary attends all ARC meetings to take the minutes and re-appointment of the latter: advise the Directors where required.
The Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance Monitors and reviews the internal audit Services as well as the external audit partners and manager also attend every ARC programme and its effectiveness: meeting and during the year ARC does periodically meet with these individuals without any bwin.
The CEO, CFO, Finance Director and Ensures co-ordination between the Head of Regulatory Affairs are normally invited to attend each meeting.
internal audit department and the external auditors, and that the internal audit department is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within bwin.
party: Considers any major audit recommendations and the major findings of internal investigations and managements response in the absence of management, where appropriate : 68 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Monitors external Who is responsible for the preparation of the bwin.
auditor independence: Monitors and reviews bwin.
partys Ultimately the Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and systems for internal control, financial understandable assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects, reporting and risk management: and which extends to the half year and annual financial statements.
Reviews the individual internal audit reports covering the various areas and activities of the business.
Delegation ARC also oversees corporate social responsibility matters and in this respect bwin.
partys finance The Investor Relations Director The Company Secretary prepares ensures that the Group has policies and department, led by the CFO, co-ordinates with the CEO, CFO with the Chairman of the Board effective controls regarding the following: prepares the financial and Chairman the preparation of and the Chairmen of the various statements any statements on bwin.
partys Board Committees the corporate Responsible gaming including position, performance, business governance statements and all the prevention of underage or model and strategy Board committee reports problem gambling: Compliance with the gaming and financial services licenses held by the Company or any of its subsidiaries: External Review External Review Gambling licence probity matters: bwin.
partys external auditors audit the annual financial accounts and review the half year accounts together with any business or corporate governance commentary.
Anti-money laundering: A report to ARC is prepared The fairness and integrity of the Companys gaming and trading systems and the process for managing any challenges to the fairness and or integrity of these systems: Committees Review Committees Review ARC reviews the draft financial statements, For the Annual Report the Remuneration Privacy and data protection: and accompanying statements and meets Committee and Nominations Committee Employment matters relating to codes with the external auditors to review their review the Directors Remuneration Report and report.
ARC proposes amendments and makes Nominations Committee Report respectively, of conduct and health and safety: recommendations to the Board propose changes and make recommendations Charitable donations and investment to the Board in the local community in the Groups principal locations: The Groups suppliers and service Board Review providers: and The Board reviews the financial statements, accompanying reports and recommendations from its committees and makes changes to the The Groups impact on the environment.
disclosure where appropriate The terms of reference for ARC are available on bwin.
partys corporate website at: Auditor Sign-off http: www.
com AboutUs External auditors carry out final review and sign-off the audit report CorporateGovernance Audit%20and%20 Annual Report or review report half year results Risk%20Committee.
aspx Approval and publication The Board approves the year-end financial statements and the half year report disclosures and these are then released to the stock exchange and published on bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 69 In respect of the financial statements The remaining impairment charge of 7.5m Further to this workshop, at the March and accompanying reports for the year against other intangibles, the impairment 2015 ARC meeting, all further impairment ended 31 December 2014, the Company charge of 0.6m against assets held charges were reviewed whilst the has followed the process detailed above.
for sale and the 1.0m against the joint annual financial results were considered.
In doing so the Directors confirm that venture, all relate to the social gaming ARC is satisfied that no other impairment they have reviewed the complete 2014 division of the Groups business, which is charges are necessary.
Annual Report and considered that in the process of being sold.
6.3m of the Capitalisation of development taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced total 9.1m social gaming impairment costs and acquired goodwill and understandable and provides the was charged in the interim period to When reviewing the half-year report for information necessary for 30 June 2014. the six months to 30 June 2014 and the bwin.
partys shareholders to assess the The remaining impairment charge of annual financial results, impairments Companys performance, business model 4.7m against the assets held for sale to the social gaming arm of the and strategy.
relates to the Groups small retail arm of business prompted a further discussion the business, as disclosed in note 13 to the surrounding the capitalisation of What significant issues did ARC financial statements and the impairment development costs across this business consider in relation to the 2014 charge of 2.2m against the available-forunit and for the others.
Managements financial statements and how were sale investments relates to a payment key assumptions over capitalisation these addressed?
processing company, as further described rates, discount rates and the impact of in note 14 to the financial statements.
Throughout the course of the year, ARC regulatory changes and their sensitivities determined the following areas of the were discussed and challenged.
The Point of Consumption POC tax financial statements were of significant payable since December 2014 in the UK At the March and May 2014 ARC meetings, interest.
These issues were discussed with gave rise to a review of the Groups Cash when reviewing the acquisition of management and the external auditors to Generating Units CGUs with exposure Servebase Group Limited, the acquisition ensure that the required level of disclosure to the UK market to consider the impact balance sheet at acquisition date, the is provided and that appropriate rigour of this levy against the revenues derived sale and purchase agreement and the has been applied where any judgement from UK-based customers.
fair value calculations for deferred may be exercised.
contingent considerations were In light of the above impairment triggers Impairment discussed.
Furthermore, when reviewing and in advance of the release of the As presented on the consolidated the 2014 half-year and year-end results half-year report to 30 June 2014, ARC held statement of comprehensive income, the of the Group, the relevant disclosures an impairment workshop in August 2014 impairment charge for the year amounts surrounding this acquisition were where the ARC members, the external to 104.4m.
This charge comprises of examined in accordance with IFRS 3 audit team, the CFO, Finance Director impairments to: Business Combinations.
and representatives of the Companys Internal Audit department were present.
Goodwill 19.7m ARC concluded that the key assumptions During this workshop the Finance Acquired Intangibles 59.4m used in the cashflow projections in Director presented multiple scenarios Other intangibles 16.8m determining the recoverable amount of which potentially could transpire in Assets held for sale 5.3m this CGU, the fair value calculation for light of regulatory changes in certain Available for sale investments 2.2m deferred contingent consideration and markets.
A detailed consideration of Joint ventures 1.0m the resulting 22.0m balance of goodwill cashflow models, fair value calculations, are each appropriately accounted for The weaker than expected poker market managements assumptions and and disclosed.
across both Europe and New Jersey has their sensitivities were discussed and had an adverse effect on the projected As a result of these discussions, ARC is challenged at the workshop.
The best utilised value of the poker assets.
satisfied that the additions to the carrying estimates of the tax consequences These have therefore had to be written value of goodwill and other intangible with the Groups Director of Tax were down to their value in use.
An impairment assets are presented fairly and accurately.
of 19.7m has been charged against Segmental reporting The impairment reviews of goodwill and goodwill, 59.4m against acquired intangible assets showed no indicators As detailed on pages 26 to 27, the impact intangibles and 9.3m against other of impairment in respect of POC.
of the Groups shift to a label-led approach intangibles, resulting in an impairment The impairment to the poker and social was considered with respect to segmental charge amounting to 88.4m, which gaming CGUs were approved by ARC and financial reporting.
During ARC meetings was charged in the half-year period to impaired and disclosed in the half-year in the second half of 2014, the impact 30 June 2014. report for the period to 30 June 2014. of this on the financial statements was 70 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED discussed with the CFO and the Groups Internal Audit performed a review Furthermore, on behalf of ARC, the Finance Director.
surrounding the change, incident and Internal Audit performed a review of problem management processes in the Groups transfer pricing policies and ARC concluded that, as financial the software production environment procedures.
The results of the review reporting for the purposes of Board and related databases of the Groups identified no material weaknesses, whilst review and decision-making continued proprietary gaming platform.
The results recommending improvements to the on the existing vertical products basis of this review, together with those existing procedures be adopted.
throughout the course of the 2014 identified by an external consultant financial year, the impact to note 2 of As disclosed in greater detail on page 44, specialising in the Oracle environment, the financial statements would only on 1 January 2015 new VAT rules came were reported to ARC in December 2014. be applicable as from 1 January 2015. into force across the EU impacting several It was determined that although no For comparative purposes and to areas of the digital economy, including material issues were identified in respect illustrate what the Groups segmental online gaming.
The Group took expert to the integrity of the gaming data and reporting would have looked like had it tax advice to help evaluate the impact of the corresponding revenue postings, the been in place since the beginning of the this change.
Whilst there is substantial Board would appoint an IT Committee to year, this information has been presented uncertainty about the application of these work with the product and technology on page 26 of the Annual Report.
new rules, the Group expects to file for management to oversee the resolution and pay VAT in certain EU Member States.
Provisions for legal and of certain issues within the technology This is forecast to reduce total net revenue regulatory compliance function, specifically the disaster recovery and cashflow by approximately 15m in arrangements and improving availability The Directors keep abreast of all known 2015 before any mitigating factors.
or potential regulatory or legal claims against the Group that may arise from Who are the external auditors and how In addition to the reviews mentioned the Groups operations.
The Directors long have they been appointed?
above, the external auditors performed receive frequent updates from the Groups detailed audit procedures on revenue During the year ended 31 December General Counsel.
During the year, ARC recognition and reported their findings 2014, BDO LLP was appointed under an reviewed the likelihood of the outcomes to ARC.
The Directors were satisfied as a engagement letter to act as auditors of various claims lodged against the Group result of the combined assurance received to enable the Company to meet and or its Board members as disclosed in from the internal and external audit its obligations to prepare financial note 24 to the financial statements.
teams, the revenue recognition treatment statements in accordance with the adopted in preparing these financial As there have been no material Listing Rules.
Forthe purposes of filing statements was appropriate.
developments with the cases disclosed the Companys financial statements in in note 24 to the financial statements, Taxation Gibraltar, BDO LLP and BDO Limited have ARC is satisfied that no provisions other been appointed to act as joint auditors to During the year, the Board reviewed the than the 1.0m in relation to market exit allow an audit report to be issued under Groups tax strategy and considered costs, included within other payables, are section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies whether it was aligned with the necessary at this present time.
Groups commercial strategy, corporate of these cases develop materially during responsibility position, approach to BDO LLP and BDO Limited were the course of 2015, ARC will consider if any corporate governance, the attitude to originally appointed in 2004 just prior provision needs to be made in respect of risk and the Groups business models.
to the Companys initial public offering.
The Board also reviewed external Ever since their initial appointment their Revenue recognition parameters, including the impact on re-appointment has been approved the tax strategy of the changing tax ARC reviewed the judgements made by shareholders each year at the environment.
The Board concluded that in respect of revenue recognition and AGM.
Shareholders approved the rethe adopted tax strategy is appropriate, considered the accounting policies appointment of the external auditors at supports the Groups business strategy adopted in this respect.
In particular, ARC the 2014 AGM, with 99.9% of the votes whilst simultaneously managing assessed the recognition of revenue from cast voted in favour of re-appointment.
effectively the risks associated with tax.
new contracts, which involved a review of A resolution will be proposed at the 2015 Owing to the dynamic nature of the online the businesss key contracts.
The Groups AGM to re-appoint BDO LLP and BDO gaming sector the Board has decided Internal Audit function include revenue Limited as the external auditors.
to review the Groups tax strategy and recognition as part of their annual review management with the Groups Director of cycle and report to the Directors on Tax at least once a year.
the appropriateness of the controls in operation and policies adopted.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 71 What is bwin.
partys policy on putting Evaluating the results of the annual In addition to their statutory duties, BDO the external audit out to tender?
assessments of the audit firm including LLP is also employed where, as a result the audit firms responsiveness to of their position as auditors or for their The UK Corporate Governance Code previous suggestions for improvements specific expertise, they either must, or ARC recommends that FTSE 350 companies including those of the Financial accepts they are best placed to, perform put their external audit out to tender at Reporting Councils quality reviews and the work in question.
This is primarily work least once every ten years.
The current whether their internal processes for in relation to matters such as shareholder external auditors have served the assessing and monitoring quality have circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory Company since 2004 and their first been appropriate and sufficient.
filings and certain business acquisitions appointment to the public limited and disposals.
In such circumstances ARC Considering if the quality of the audit company was in 2005.
Taking into account will separately review the specific service engagement team is sufficient and the Financial Reporting Councils advice requirements and consider any impact appropriate including the continuity on companies transitioning to putting the on objectivity and independence of the of appropriate industry, sector and external audit out for tender to comply auditors and any appropriate safeguards technical expertise including new areas with this recommendation and the timing to this.
As such ARC believes it appropriate of activity and changes in regulation or of the audit partner rotation, the Board for these non-audit services to be professional standards and whether has decided on the recommendation excluded from the 1:1 ratio set out above.
it has exercised sufficient objectivity from ARC to put the external audit out In the year ended 31 December 2014 the to mitigate any independence and for tender in 2017.
Thereafter the external total fees paid to the external auditors in familiarity threats.
audit will be put out for tender at least respect of due diligence for acquisitions once every ten years.
Feedback is provided to the external was 0.1 million.
auditors at every instance by ARC and In 2014 the BDO LLP partner rotated The Company has also adopted a policy through one-to-one discussions between having acted for five years.
on external auditor independence to help the Chair and the audit partner.
ensure the independence of the current How did ARC go about assessing external auditors is not compromised.
What non-audit services did the effectiveness of the external BDO provide in 2014?
party have an internal audit department and how is it effective?
ARC has established a policy regarding ARC is committed to ensuring that the the appointment of external auditors to external audit process remains effective Internal Audit & Risk Assurance Services perform non-audit services for the Group on a continuing basis.
In particular, IA comprises the Group Risk, Internal and keeps this under continual review, throughout the year ARC paid specific Audit and Licensed Operations Review receiving a report at each ARC meeting.
attention to the following areas: functions.
Group Risk facilitates and This policy dictates that in the Companys advises on the Groups risk process, Reviewing that safeguards against financial year, the total fees for non-audit for which the Companys Board is independence threats put in place by services provided by the external auditors, ultimately responsible.
the incumbent auditor are sufficient excluding non-audit fees for due diligence and comprehensive.
on acquisitions and other specific matters The mission of the IA function is to provide noted below, should not exceed the total independent, objective assurance and Ensuring that the quality and fees for audit services.
The total non-audit consulting services designed to add transparency of communications fees as a percentage of the total audit fees and protect value by improving the with the external auditors are timely, paid to the external auditors was 5.8%.
IA assists the Group clear, concise and relevant and that to accomplish its objectives by bringing any suggestions for improvements or a systematic, disciplined approach to changes are constructive.
evaluate and improve the effectiveness Exercising professional scepticism, of risk management, control and including but not limited to, looking governance processes.
at contrary evidence, the reliability of evidence, the appropriateness and accuracy of management responses to queries, considering potential fraud and the need for additional procedures, and the willingness of the auditor to challenge management assumptions.
TOTAL RISKS 300 72 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Through IAs work and meetings with Promoting effective control at In doing so the Directors acknowledge both the Executive Group Risk Committee reasonable cost and assisting that bwin.
partys system of internal and ARC, IA provides assurance to the management generally in the pursuit control can only reduce the probability Board that effective and efficient control of value for money e. g. by providing that business risks might impede the processes are in place to identify and practical recommendations to Company in achieving its objectives.
manage business risks that may prevent improve the efficiency of the financial It cannot eliminate these risks and can the business from achieving its objectives.
and business processes operated by therefore provide only reasonable, not The scope of this work includes: the Group.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Providing assurance to the Board and Carrying out ad-hoc investigations executive management that effective based on any allegations made How are risks to the business identified?
systems and controls are in place through the Whistleblowing Policy or and are being operated to manage all as requested or directed by ARC and or The Board has overall accountability for significant risks within the financial executive management.
ensuring that risk is effectively managed and business systems operated within across the Group and, on behalf of the The sections on risk below illustrate how the Group.
Board, ARC reviews the effectiveness IA supports the business through driving of the risk process.
IA facilitates a Assisting the business in fulfilling its improvements to bwin.
partys control process, within defined parameters for corporate governance responsibilities.
environment and by adding value in risk assurance, in order that each business core business areas in the context of the Supporting operational management area can identify, assess and manage the Groups risk profile.
by providing best practice advice on risks in their respective area.
internal controls, including practical The Board, with the support of ARC, recommendations to mitigate control has completed its annual review of the weaknesses identified during the effectiveness of the system of internal review process.
control, and is satisfied that it is robust and in accordance with best practice.
party Group Risk Management Review Strategy 2015 Board Most important risks with the greatest velocity TOP 6 Audit & Risk Committee 40 IN TOTAL Risks scored between 12 and 16 Executive Group Risk Committee 100 IN TOTAL Risks scored between 8 and 16 Business Unit Risk Review 300 IN TOTAL All risks within their area bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 73 IA held 52 individual meetings and eight Given the complexity of the Groups to occur or has already happened.
workshops during 2014 to assess: operations, the risk register remains a The impact is measured on a similar scale, central repository for management and where 1 is low, with limited damage to a i whether any risk had increased the Directors to review and oversee risk stakeholder, and 4 being severe, which or decreased: issues effectively.
causes substantial damage to the Groups ii whether a risk remained unchanged or potential to generate revenue and Clean Risks identified are measured against a had become obsolete: EBITDA.
The product of both scores defined set of criteria used to consider of gives rise to the residual risk score that iii whether any new risks were now the likelihood of an occurrence and the determines the relative importance of the relevant, especially from recent key associated potential Clean EBITDA impact individual risk.
business events and changes: and to the Group.
The extent to which an event is likely to occur is scored from 1-4, 1 being iv the probability of a risk happening and remote i. e. very unlikely to occur and 4 its associated level of impact.
being probable, where it has the potential This information is combined with a consolidated view of the business area risks.
The top risks based on likelihood and impact are migrated onto a risk register, which is reviewed periodically by the Executive Group Risk Committee GRC, ahead of it being submitted to ARC for consideration and direction.
In some instances key risks will be escalated to the Board for final decision, sometimes with a recommendation from ARC.
The table below is an actual extract of the risk register, illustrating our approach to evaluating risk.
Risk No 10.22 Area Group Finance Treasury Movement Static Risk Title Exchange rate volatility Risk Velocity MEDIUM Description The risk that exchange rate losses can occur due to extremely rapid shifts in the exchange rates due to market volatility Risk Category Economic, Financial & Market Risk Existing Controls Action Taken 1.
Currencies are held in the required currency and there are predefined exposure limits on other currencies.
Reporting currencies and functional currencies have been aligned, reducing the exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on reported results.
FX has been removed from the Clean EBITDA.
Risk Score Impact 2 Likelihood 3 Residual Risk Score 6 Previous Risk Score Impact 2 Likelihood 3 Residual Risk Score 6 Risk Action TOLERATE Action Required Director of treasury to continue to monitor exchange rates and ensure that enough balances are held in those currencies required Date Nov-14 Responsible Leadership Member CFO Responsibility Director of Treasury Target Date On-going The GRC, composed of the leadership team and chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, met four times in 2014.
The GRC aims to ensure that all principal risks are identified by agreeing on the significant risks identified by the workshops and management meetings.
This process helps to further embed the importance of risk management throughout the core business functions technology, labels, human resources, finance, regulatory affairs, legal and company secretarial.
74 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED These risks are then submitted to ARC which allows the Directors to raise concerns with management and request action be taken to mitigate particular risks.
How are these risks managed?
To ensure our risk process drives continuous improvement across the business, the GRC monitors the on-going status and progress of key action plans against each risk quarterly.
In addition, risk appetite and mitigation matters remain a key consideration in all strategic decision-making by the leadership team and the Board.
Currently the main categories of risk identified by this process are as follows: Technology the risk of developing and maintaining our proprietary software: Regulation the risk that changes outside the control of the Group affect its ability to operate and that without compliant systems and processes in place the Group could breach regulatory requirements: Taxation the risk that the Group incurs increased tax expenditure as a result of changes outside of the Groups control: and Shift to a new label-led approach the risk that our shift away from a product-led approach to one driven by label management may create additional operational risk in the short-term.
Each of these is described in more detail below.
Risk Mitigating Factors Technology The Groups customer offer includes products operated using In August 2014 the Board appointed an IT Committee to oversee the delivery of different labels and gaming licenses, the majority of which are certain key technology-related projects including disaster recovery arrangements drivenby the Groups proprietary technology.
and a high availability improvement programme see the paragraph below to reduce the amount of platform down-time to an absolute minimum.
The IT 2013 saw the successful completion of the dotcom player Committee members meet regularly with senior technology executives to receive migrationproject and during 2014 our customer base in updates on projects and give guidance on prioritisation and overall direction.
France was migrated successfully onto our target platform.
The migration of our Italian customers to the target platform Through the combined efforts of our technology and IA teams, an independent represents the last of our integration projects following the review of the Groups production incident and problem management process was Merger and is due to be completedin March 2015. performed on behalf of ARC, which highlights risks and key areas for improvement.
In parallel, a Group-wide initiative on maximising gaming platform availability was The fact that 88% of our customer base is already supported introduced in 2014 under the High Availability Improvement Project and the Group is by our target platform, highlights how important bwin.
partys making significant progress with this initiative.
technology is to the Group.
In an industry where service reliability and integrity are key differentiating factors, our Other technology-related risks, such as maintaining our continuing operations in continual commitment to providing a reliable, safe, secure, the event of a natural or man-made disaster, have been addressed with support compliant and continuous service has continued to be a key from the IT Committee and a substantial investment during 2014 and consequently area of focus this year.
both the Groups disaster recovery and business continuity solutions have been updated and tested during the year.
With continuous shifts in how consumers choose and are able to access our services via different devices and or channels, the process of maintaining and improving our technology becomes ever more complex.
As mentioned elsewhere, the Groups key focus during 2014 and in 2015 continues to be to improve our customer experience through an expanded mobile offer across all products, as well as ensuring high levels of availability.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 75 Risk Mitigating Factors Regulation Focusing on nationally regulated and or taxed markets To manage this risk, the Group continues to engage either directly or indirectly safeguards our gaming revenues from potential national with national governments and regulators of to-be regulated markets.
The Groups legislation threatening to prohibit or restrict one or more of compliance and regulatory affairs team keeps abreast of the regulatory landscape the products that we offer, or online gaming entirely.
There are and reports to ARC and the Board on any developments.
However, it should be noted potential risks for the Group from all markets where regulation that most of the risks in relation to the regulatory landscape are outside of the is not clearly defined or adopted, especially in relation to EU Groups direct control.
Operating in nationally regulated and or taxed markets necessitates that we comply with the required rules and protocols.
Currently, the Group holds licences for and offers real money gaming in 11 different territories, each with their own unique licence obligations.
The need to sometimes develop bespoke technological, operational and promotional offers in each market requires significant investment.
The Group is committed to meeting its licence obligations and monitors its compliance with regulatory requirements by performing reviews of its licenced operations on a periodic basis with the results reported to ARC.
The Group also submits the licenced entities to a series of external audits by regulators and industry specialists to ensure that policies and procedures are being followed as intended.
Taxation The Group has companies and employees spread over a Group companies operate only where they are incorporated, domiciled or registered number of jurisdictions which creates tax risk if actions and across countries.
The multi-location set up of the Group gives rise to transfer pricing decisions are being made in the wrong jurisdictions by the risk, mitigated by the fact that all intra-group transactions are documented and take wrong companies.
In addition, these companies contract with place on an arms length basis unless local legislation or other business conditions one another for services which are subject to scrutiny by local make an arms length basis impossible or impractical.
During the course of the year, a review on the transfer pricing arrangements was The Groups strategic focus is to operate in nationally regulated conducted on behalf of ARC.
In addition, the Groups Director of Tax routinely holds and or taxed markets.
Revenues earned from customers workshops with senior management and business unit leaders during the course located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes of the year.
He also meets at least once a year with the Board to review tax strategy in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are levied, either on the basis and management.
of existing law or the current practice of any tax authority, or On 1 January 2015, new VAT rules came into force across the EU impacting several by reason of a change in law or practice, then this may have areas of the digital economy.
Gambling has typically been exempt from VAT but falls a material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by within the rules for VAT on electronically supplied services.
Under EU law, Member the Group.
States have the ability to apply VAT to gambling subject to certain limitations and conditions, and tax may be due depending on where customers are located and how Member States implement any exemption.
Whilst substantial uncertainty remains, in the light of the new rules, the bwin.
party Board expects to file for, and pay VAT in certain EU Member States.
It is possible that VAT could be payable in other EU Member States.
76 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Risk Mitigating Factors Shift to a new label-led approach In 2014, the Group announced a fundamental shift in its Whilst this shift to a new approach created some uncertainty for employees, operations away from a product-led approach sports betting, continuous support through regular communications via location-driven Town casino and games, poker and bingo towards one driven by label Halls, webinars through the Groups intranet and one-on-one question and answer bwin labels, Games labels, US, Studios and Other.
This will take sessions with Human Resource teams have helped to maintain a transparent and effect in 2015. continuous channel of communication that has aided this transition.
Having business units and labels resourced across various locations does give rise to specific location risks as well as decentralisation risks: however, this new approach has allowed the creation of teams dedicated to specific labels rather than products with faster decision-making, improved customer offer and better service.
The Groups corporate functions continue to be administered from the corporate centre covering areas such as procurement, financial reporting, budgeting, legal and HR services, with appropriate service levels in place to provide each business unit with a benchmark of service quality.
The 2015 internal audit plan as approved by ARC reflects this new operational set-up and findings will be communicated to ARC during the year ahead.
Employees will Will there be any changes be protected where they have reasonable to ARC in 2015?
The Group continues to adopt and grounds to believe that their employer, publicise a formal whistleblowing This is my last report to bwin.
party another worker or a third party has procedure by which employees can, in shareholders.
As disclosed on page 21 I will committed serious malpractice and make confidence, raise concerns about possible be stepping down from the Board at the a disclosure in good faith.
improprieties in financial or other matters.
Liz Catchpole, The Group has a written policy available This procedure is set out in the Groups who was appointed to the Board on to all employees on the Groups intranet employee handbooks having first been 1 March 2015 will succeed me as Chairman and approved by ARC, which sets out reviewed and approved by ARC.
Liz is a chartered certified the type of disclosure which is protected accountant and serves on the audit The Group seeks the highest ethical and also specifies to whom disclosures committees of other companies and so standards in carrying out its business should be made and the process that will she will be regarded as the ARC member activities, and corrupt practices of any be followed.
with recent and relevant financial sort will not be tolerated.
Rod Perry is also stepping ARC is satisfied that robust and committed to tackling malpractice and down from the Board at the forthcoming appropriate arrangements are in place it is the personal responsibility of every AGM and he will be succeeded on ARC by for the proportionate and independent employee to manage and reduce the risk Barry Gibson.
investigation of such matters and for of malpractice in their business.
Helmut Kern The Group actively encourages Chairman of the Audit Committee individuals, where they believe that malpractice has taken place, to make 11 March 2015 protected disclosures either internally to ARC or externally through the outsourced bwin.
