64 Nominations Committee Report What did the Nominations Committee do in 2014?
Under Philip Yeas leadership the Nominations Committee engaged with Who are the members?
Spring Owl in April 2014 following receipt from SpringOwl of a notice nominating Philip Yea Chairman appointed 23 April 2014 four individuals for appointment to the Per Afrell Board and requisitioning four ordinary Sylvia Coleman appointed 21 May 2014 resolutions to effect these appointments Rod Perry at the 2014 AGM.
As part of his induction and in order to effectively respond to SpringOwls action, Philip Yea met with With the exception of the Chairman, all the members are deemed independent by many major shareholders to discuss their the Board.
Simon Duffy chaired the Nominations Committee until 23 April 2014 and concerns or questions regarding previous remained a member until 22 May 2014, when he retired from the Board.
and future governance of the Company.
The Chairman-elect also instigated a What does the Nominations Committee do?
The Board has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment Although there were no material adverse of new Directors to the Board by appointing a Nominations Committee to lead the findings from the Board review or the process of appointment and make recommendations to the Board.
The Nominations discussions with shareholders, the Committee also advises the Board on its structure, size, composition and matters of Nominations Committee concluded Director and senior management succession.
that given the increasing complexity of the Groups business and regulatory The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee are available on bwin.
partys environment, combined with the length corporate website at http: www.
com AboutUs CorporateGovernance of service of a number of the .
Executive Directors and the need to prevent the Board from becoming too How many times did the Nominations Committee meet?
large and unwieldy, change to the Boards The Nominations Committee met six times in 2014 and attendance was as follows: composition was required.
Attendance and total number of meetings to which Following the Nominations Committee Director the Director was entitled to attend Chairmans discussions with individual Per Afrell 6 6 Directors, it was unanimously agreed that Manfred Bodner would step down Sylvia Coleman 3 3 at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM and Simon Duffy 1 2 that Rod Perry and Helmut Kern would both retire at the 2015 AGM, once their Rod Perry 6 6 successors had been selected.
In addition Philip Yea 5 5 to searching for candidates to succeed Rod Perry and Helmut Kern as Chairman Simon Duffy was unable to attend the meeting in May owing to a family bereavement just prior to the meeting of the Remuneration Committee and The Company Secretary attends all Nominations Committees to record meetings Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and provide advice to the Directors.
The CEO is normally invited to attend each respectively, the Nominations Committee meeting and the HR Director is invited to attend from time-to-time to participate in concluded that the Board should discussions about succession planning.
also seek a candidate with extensive executive knowledge and expertise in information technology, market trends and technology delivery in consumerfacing digital businesses referred to as the Digital Director, to broaden the collective knowledge and expertise of the Board.
An announcement to this effect was made on 16 May 2014. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 65 The main focus of the Nominations Committee for the rest of 2014 was to conduct Throughout the process the Nominations the search for three new independent Directors employing the support of Spencer Committee operated within the Stuart, an international executive search firm.
The following process was adopted to parameters of the Companys diversity achieve this: policy.
The diversity policy ensures the Group engages, trains and promotes employees on the basis of their The Nominations Committee Chairman split the Nominations Committee capabilities, qualifications and experience.
members into three teams and assigned a role to each team.
The policy forbids discrimination or pressure to discriminate by its employees or others acting on the Groups behalf or their employees, contractors or customers Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Digital Director Role: in respect of age, sex, sexual orientation, Chairman Role: Chairman Role: Rod Perry race, ethnic origin, marital status or civil Per Afrell Sylvia Coleman Philip Yea Philip Yea Philip Yea partnership, nationality, disabilities, political or religious beliefs, or on any other criteria unrelated to an individuals ability to perform the duties.
The policy also sets out how the diversity guidelines Each sub-committee met and prepared a specification for the role they had been allocated impact recruitment, selection and promotion, learning and development, the management of part-time workers Each role specification was shared with the and individual employee responsibilities Nominations Committee and approved for ensuring enforcement and compliance with the policy.
Owing to the breadth of diversity existing across the Group, The specification for each role was given to Spencer Stuart and it diversity ratios or objectives have not commenced a search for individuals who met the criteria for each role been set.
The Nominations Committee was also mindful but not beholden to the Boards Long-lists of candidates with biographies for each role were presented to each sub-committee by Spencer Stuart and each sub-committee reviewed publicly stated aim of having at least two its long-list and short-listed candidates to be approached for interview.
female Directors by the end of 2015.
The short-lists were reviewed by the Nominations Committee before then The decision was taken at the start being passed to Spencer Stuart of the Digital Director search process to include Michael Fertik, originally a nominee proposed by SpringOwl, as a Spencer Stuart ascertained the chosen candidates availability and interest in the role and arranged interviews with the relevant sub-committee members candidate for the Board membership.
The Nominations Committee had gathered significant information on Candidates were interviewed by the relevant sub-committee, which then Michael Fertiks background, experience reported its feedback and recommendation to the other Nominations and independence in order to respond to Committee members.
The candidates also met with the CEO to give them SpringOwls requisition and decided he the opportunity to ask questions about the business was sufficiently qualified to be considered along with other candidates proposed by Spencer Stuart.
The Nominations Committee met and decided on which candidates to recommend for appointment for each role The Board considered the recommendations from the Nominations Committee and resolved which appointments to make 66 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Shareholders should be aware that it Spencer Stuart was engaged to assist with During the review, the Nominations has always proved challenging to find the recruitment.
The process resulted in Committee has been mindful of the appropriately qualified candidates willing a recommendation to the Board for the fact that whilst the Company has to serve as a Non-Executive Director of appointment of Philip Yea as a Director.
been in discussions with third parties an online gaming company based in This was effected on 9 April 2014 on the regarding potential business combinations, Gibraltar.
This can be because of perceived basis he would then succeed Simon Duffy implementing an effective succession regulatory and or potential personal as Chairman of the Board when the latter and recruitment plan is likely to be more moral challenges associated with the stepped down at the conclusion of the challenging and has advised the Board sector.
A significant number of candidates 2014 AGM.
The Nominations Committee at an early stage of the discussions will also focus in 2015 on developing the Why did the Company use Spencer decide they do not wish to proceed in senior management team succession plan Stuart for recruitment?
to ensure it is thorough and coherent.
Spencer Stuart was engaged after a Following this process, the Board Has the Nominations Committee made appointed Barry Gibson and Liz tender process involving a number of any recommendations regarding the recruitment firms to support the search Catchpole as independent Non-Executive re-appointments at the 2015 AGM ?
and selection process for candidates Directors with effect from 1 March In March 2015 the Nominations for the Chairman of the Board role.
Following the retirement of Rod Spencer Stuart is a global executive Committee met and reviewed the Perry and Helmut Kern at the 2015 AGM, proposed re-appointments at the 2015 Barry Gibson will take up the role of and non-executive search firm and is completely independent of AGM of: Remuneration Committee Chairman and bwin.
Following Spencer Stuarts Liz Catchpole will Chair the Audit & Risk 1.
Per Afrell good work with this initial engagement, Committee.
Liz Catchpole the Nominations Committee unanimously was regarded as desirable to assist with the induction of the Directors and the agreed to engage Spencer Stuart to find 3.
Sylvia Coleman candidates for the three independent smooth hand-over of responsibilities.
Barry Gibson Non-Executive Director roles described Owing to Barry Gibsons significant listed above.
Spencer Stuart follows best company experience, he will also become 5.
Georg Riedl practice and adopts the Voluntary Code of the Senior Independent Director following 6.
Daniel Silvers Rod Perrys retirement.
Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Norbert Teufelberger The Nominations Committee is still Did the Nominations Committee review considering and interviewing candidates other areas of succession in 2014?
Martin Weigold for the Digital Director role.
Philip Yea The Directors considered succession plans a recommendation will be made to the for the senior executive team in 2014.
Board in the second quarter of 2015.
On the basis of experience, performance, In particular, the Nominations Committee skills and commitment demonstrated, How was the new Chairman selected?
focused on three areas: and also in light of the results of the 2015 Board evaluation results, the Nominations Emergency cover for the CEO in the As reported in the 2013 annual report, Committee advised the Board that it is event he is incapacitated or unavoidably the recruitment of Simon Duffys unavailable on a temporary basis.
appropriate to recommend each of the successor was delegated to a committee Directors for re-appointment.
of independent Directors, Per Afrell, The retention and succession Sylvia Coleman and Helmut Kern.
implications for other managers should Philip Yea The selection process began in December the CEO exit the business.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 2013 and followed steps similar to those The process for recruiting a CEO of 11 March 2015 described above.
Studios following the departure of Guy Duncan, the Product & Technology Director in January 2015.
The process for recruiting a Human Resources Director following the current incumbents decision to retire in 2015. bwin.
