JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 27 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,228,008 issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice issued ordinary share capital as at the last practicable of Meeting on pages 62 and 63. date before the publication of this document.
The full Corporate Governance text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Compliance Meeting on pages 62 and 63.
This authority will expire The Company is committed to high standards of at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2015 corporate governance.
This statement, together unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue page 36, indicates how the Company has applied the new shares to participants purchasing shares through principles of good governance of the Financial the JPMorgan savings products and also to other Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code investors when the Directors consider that it is in the the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, are only made at prices greater than the net asset which complements the UK Corporate Governance value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and Code and provides a framework of best practice for spread the Companys administrative expenses, other investment trusts.
than the management fee which is charged on the The Board is responsible for ensuring the value of the Companys market capitalisation, over a appropriate level of corporate governance and greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are considers that the Company has complied with the available for investment in line with the Companys best practice provisions of the UK Corporate investment policies.
The Company currently does not Governance Code and the AIC Code throughout the hold any shares in the capital of the Company in year under review, other than in respect of the Treasury.
provisions relating to the appointment of a senior Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for independent director and the engagement of an cancellation resolution 12 external recruitment consultancy, both of which are At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2013, explained below.
shareholders gave authority to the Company to enable Role of the Board it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share A management agreement between the Company capital.
This authority will expire on 21st November and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the 2014 unless renewed by shareholders.
The Directors Manager has authority.
This includes management consider that the renewing of the authority is in the of the Companys assets and the provision of interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase accounting, company secretarial, administration, of shares at a discount to the underlying net asset and some marketing services.
value NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Approval of dividend policy resolution 13 Board for decision has been approved.
This includes The Directors seek approval of the Companys determination and monitoring of the Companys dividend policy to continue to pay four quarterly investment objectives and policy and its future interim dividends, which in the year ended strategic direction, gearing policy, management of 31st January 2014 have totalled 40 pence per share.
the capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service providers, review of key Recommendation investment and financial data and the Companys The Board considers resolutions 10-13 are likely to corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as The Board has procedures in place to deal with a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that potential conflicts of interest and following the you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, has adopted to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
which amount in aggregate to 50,110 shares It confirms that the procedures have operated representing approximately 0.05% of the existing effectively during the year under review.
JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 28 28 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Directors Report continued The Board meets at least quarterly during the year The terms and conditions of Directors appointments and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies Full and timely information is provided to the Board of which are available for inspection on request at to enable it to function effectively and to allow the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board recommends the election and re-election of There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take the Directors who each seek election and re-election at independent professional advice if necessary and at this years AGM.
This is in addition to the Induction and Training access that every Director has to the advice and On appointment, the Manager and Company services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is Secretary provide all Directors with induction responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided on rules and regulations are complied with and that changes in law and regulatory requirements that Board procedures are followed.
affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are Board Composition encouraged to attend industry and other seminars The Board, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists covering issues relevant to investment trust of six non-executive Directors, all of whom are companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors training regarded by the Board as independent, including the needs are carried out by the Nomination Committee Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment, by means of the evaluation process below.
business and financial skills and experience relevant to Meetings and Committees the Companys business and brief biographical details The Board delegates certain responsibilities and of each Director are set out on pages 19 and 20. functions to committees.
Details of membership of A review of Board composition and balance is included committees are shown with the Directors profiles as part of the annual performance evaluation of the on pages 19 and 20.
Directors who are not members Board.
The Board has considered whether a senior of Committees may attend at the invitation of the independent director should be appointed and has Chairman.
concluded that, as the Board consists entirely of The table below details the number of Board, Audit non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
Committee and Nomination Committee meetings Ian Russell, as Audit Committee Chairman, leads the attended by each Director.
During the year there evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and were six Board meetings, two Audit Committee may be contacted by shareholders if they have meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
concerns that can not be resolved through discussion Audit Nomination with the Chairman.
Board Committee Committee Tenure Meetings Meetings Meetings The Chairman and Sandy Nairn, having been Director Attended Attended Attended Directors of the Company for more than nine years, 1 Hamish Leslie Melville62 1 have retained their independence by submitting to Sir Richard Beckett 52 1 annual re-election.
Helen James6 2 1 Directors are initially appointed until the following Sandy Nairn 62 1 Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Ian Russell 62 1 Articles of Association, it is required that they be Jeremy Tigue5 1 1 elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, subject to the performance evaluation carried out each year, the 1 Attended by invitation.
Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each Board Committees Director to seek re-election.
In accordance with the Nomination Committee UK Corporate Governance Code, from 2011 onwards, The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Directors continuing in office have sought annual Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at re-election.
JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 29 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 least annually to ensure that the Board has an ensure that information presented to it is fair, appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry balanced and understandable, together with details out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose of how it has done so.
suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
During its review of the Companys financial The appointment process takes account of the statements for the year ended 31st January 2014, the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Audit Committee considered the following significant The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is issues, including those communicated by the to take account of the benefits of these during the Auditors during their reporting: appointment process.
However, the Board remains Significant issue How the issue was addressed committed to appointing the most appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms of Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys diversity.
Therefore, no targets have been set against investment objective, risk management policies, which to report.
capital management policies and procedures, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash The Committee conducts an annual performance flow projections.
As a result, they have determined evaluation, to ensure that all members of the Board that the Company has adequate resources, an and its committees have devoted sufficient time and appropriate financial structure and suitable contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
The management arrangements in place to continue in Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes operational existence for the foreseeable future.
recommendations to the Board as and when Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in appropriate, in relation to remuneration policy and and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in implementation.
investments note 1 to the accounts on page 44.
Controls are in place to ensure that valuations are appropriate and On an annual basis each Director submits a list existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
of potential conflicts of interest for approval at the Nomination Committee meeting.
These are Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken considered carefully, taking into account the investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the accounts on page 44. circumstances surrounding them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved for a period of one year.
Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years An externally facilitated evaluation is carried out commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been every three years.
obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility The Committee also reviews Directors fees and criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
makes recommendations to the Board as and when The Board was made fully aware of any significant appropriate in relation to remuneration policy.
financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the financial Audit Committee statements.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists of all the Directors other than the Chairman and The Audit Committee reviews the terms of the meets at least twice each year.
The members of the management agreement and examines the Committee consider that they have the requisite effectiveness of the Companys risk management and skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of internal control systems, receives information from the Committee for details of their qualifications see the Managers Compliance department and reviews pages 19 and 20.
Mr Leslie Melville is not a member the scope and results of the external audit, its of the Audit Committee, however, he is invited to effectiveness and cost effectiveness, the balance of attend meetings as a guest.
audit and non-audit services, and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit The Committee reviews the actions and judgements Committee also receives confirmations from the of the Manager in relation to the half year and Auditors, as part of their reporting, in regard to their annual accounts and the Companys compliance with objectivity and independence.
In the Directors the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the request of opinion, the Auditors are considered independent.
the Board, the Audit Committee provides confirmation to the Board as to how it has The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility discharged its responsibilities so that the Board may for making recommendations to the Board on the JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 30 30 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Directors Report continued re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Meeting at which the Directors and representatives A predecessor firm of  LLP of the Manager are available in person to meet with was appointed on 8th January 1885, shortly after the shareholders and answer questions.
The audit engagement partner presentation is given by the Investment Managers rotates every five years in accordance with ethical who review the Companys performance.
During the guidelines and 2014 is the fourth year for the current year the Companys brokers and the Investment partner.
Managers hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual themselves available as and when required to Report & Accounts are considered.
Having reviewed address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be the performance of the external auditors, including contacted through the Company Secretary whose the quality of work, timing of communications and details are shown on page 69. work with JPMAM, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is Board supported this recommendation which will be published in time to give shareholders at least put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 20 working days notice of the Annual General General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and questions via the Companys website or write to the independence, any significant non-audit services are Company Secretary at the address shown on page 69. carried out through a partner other than the audit engagement partner where appropriate.
Fees paid Details of the proxy voting position on each for audit services, audit-related services and other resolution will be published on the Companys non-audit services are set out, where relevant, in website shortly after the Annual General Meeting.
There were no significant Risk Management and Internal Control non-audit engagements during the year under review.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the The Audit Committee has assessed the impact of any Directors, at least annually, to review the non-audit work carried out and is content with the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk Auditors ability to remain independent and objective.
management and internal control and to report to The Directors statement on the Companys system of shareholders that they have done so.
This risk management and internal control is set out below encompasses a review of all controls, which the and on page 31.
Board has identified as including business, financial, Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit operational, compliance and risk management.
Committee have written terms of reference which The Directors are responsible for the Companys system define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of risk management and internal control which is of which are available for inspection on the designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain Companys website, on request at the Companys proper accounting records and ensure that financial registered office and at the Companys AGM.
information used within the business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be Relations with Shareholders designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance full understanding of the Companys activities and against fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
performance and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way of the Annual Report and Since investment management, custody of assets and Accounts, Half Year Financial Report and two Interim all administrative services are provided to the Management Statements.
This is supplemented by the Company by JPMAM and its associates, the Companys daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, system of risk management and internal control of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
mainly consists of monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating All shareholders have the opportunity, and are controls established by them, to ensure they meet the encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General Companys business objectives.
There is an ongoing JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 31 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 process for identifying, evaluating and managing the of the Companys system of risk management and significant risks faced by the Company see Principal internal control for the year ended 31st January 2014, Risks on page 23.
This process has been in place for and to the date of approval of this Annual Report the year under review and up to the date of approval and Accounts.
of the Annual Report & Accounts and it accords with During the course of its review of the system of risk the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not have management and internal control, the Board has not an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the identified nor been advised of any failings or internal audit department of JPMAM.
This weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key elements designed to provide effective risk Corporate Governance and Voting Policy management and internal control are as follows: The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy data, including management accounts, revenue statements on corporate governance, voting policy projections, analysis of transactions and performance and social and environmental issues, which has been comparisons.
reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Details of Management Agreement Appointment of a manager social and environmental issues are included in the and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct Strategic Report on page 24.
Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly Greenhouse Gas Emissions defined in a written agreement.
The Company is managed by JPMAM, has no Management Systems The Managers system of risk employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, management and internal control includes the day to day activities being carried out by third organisational agreements which clearly define the parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control made in respect of employees.
The Company has no procedures and systems.
These are monitored by premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly and consequently does not have a measurable monitors compliance with FCA rules.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk the Companys investment strategy and exposure in project finance.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Corporate Governance Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our the Companys system of risk management and investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering internal control by monitoring the operation of the superior investment performance to our clients, we expect key operating controls of the Manager and its and encourage the companies in which we invest to associates as follows: demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure reviews the terms of the management agreement and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, and receives regular reports from JPMAMs as well as the board balance, oversight functions and Compliance department: remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis reviews reports on the risk management and of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
internal controls and the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself Proxy Voting independently reviewed: and JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted the Directors review on a regular basis an to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of independent report on the risk management and JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is By the means of the procedures set out above, the practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness companies in which we are invested.
JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 32 32 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Directors Report continued Stewardship Engagement JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its Guidelines are available on request from the clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the JPMAMs website: responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of http: www.
Under the Code, managers should: Governance.
This also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: voting record.
disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: monitor their investee companies: By order of the Board establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of be willing to act collectively with other investors where JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, appropriate: Company Secretary have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their 2nd April 2014 voting record: and Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code report to clients.
may be found on the respective organisations websites: JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments www.
co. uk and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
