Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the report of the audit committee for the Activities year ended 31 January 2015.
During the year the committee met twice during which the Annual Report and the Half-yearly Report respectively Composition were reviewed in detail.
These meetings were attended by The audit committee consists of all of the independent nonrepresentatives of the manager including the UK heads of executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the both the compliance and risk departments.
The committee considers that, collectively, its members the committee received reports on the operation of financial have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to controls relating to the company and the proper conduct of its discharge their responsibilities fully.
I am a chartered accountant business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which and have current recent experience as a Group Financial Director both the company and the manager operate.
Specifically, the of a FTSE 100 company and previously in a similar capacity in committee looked at the processes and performance of one of other large companies.
its outsourced service providers to ensure that it met all current governance requirements.
The committee also considered the auditors report on the annual report, the planning and Role the process of the audit and the auditors independence and The principal role of the Audit Committee is to assist the board objectivity.
The audit committee believes the performance of the in relation to the reporting of financial information, the review of auditor is satisfactory and recommended the reappointment of financial controls and the management of risk.
The committee  as auditor of the company to the board.
has defined terms of reference and duties and the terms of The audit committee reviews the companys accounting policies reference are published on the companys website.
These include: and considers their appropriateness.
The committee also reviews responsibility for the review of the Annual Report and the Halfthe terms of appointment of the auditors together with their yearly Report: remuneration.
the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom: and Risk the terms of appointment of the auditors, including their The committee considered a matrix of risks at each of its meetings remuneration and the provision of any non-audit services by and there is more detail on the process of these reviews in the them.
Non-audit services Internal audit Non-audit services received in the year related to certificates The audit committee continues to believe that the company does supplied in connection with the covenants under the debenture not require an internal audit function of its own as it delegates trust deeds and the audit committee agreed that it was its day to day operations to third parties from whom it receives appropriate that the companys auditors should be asked to internal controls reports.
Fees for non-audit services were 4,450 in the year 2014 - Whistleblowing 4,320.
These fees are considered by the audit committee to As the company has no employees it does not have a formal be proportionate to the fees for audit services of 28,295 2014 policy concerning the raising, in confidence, of any concerns - 25,530 plus 9,900 additional fee for one off audit scope about improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or changes.
This non-audit work was found not to have a significant otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
The audit impact on the financial statements.
committee has, however, received and noted the managers policy on this matter.
Any matters concerning the company may be raised with the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director.
41 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Financial Report and Significant Issues The audit, its effectiveness and the reappointment of The audit committee met with the auditors at the half-year point the auditor to discuss the audit plan for the year and identify the significant The committee reviewed the terms of appointment of the issues to be dealt with in the review of the year end results.
auditor, monitored the audit process, assessed the auditors independence, objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit Significant issues considered by the audit committee process, including the provision of non audit services by the firm, in the year and determined that they have had no impact on the auditors independence and objectivity.
Risk Activity As part of the review of the auditor, the members of the committee and those representatives of the manager involved The risk that The committee noted that the board in the audit process reviewed and considered a number of areas income from receives income forecasts throughout including: the reputation and standing of the audit firm: the audit the portfolio the year and is able to compare these processes, evidence of partner oversight and external information of investments against actual income received.
The about the firm: the skills, experience and specialist knowledge was not committee has also received assurances of the audit team, particularly relating to investment trusts: correctly from the manager that the companys audit communication including details of planning, information recognised and stated accounting policies, which are set on relevant accounting and regulatory developments, and accounted for.
out on pages 56 and 57, were noted and recommendations on corporate reporting: the reasonableness adhered to.
of audit fees: and the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Report on  LLP for 2013 14.
Risks around the The companys assets are principally existence of and invested in listed equities.
The The committee was satisfied that the audit process was effective the valuation of committee reviewed internal controls for the year under review.
reports from the manager in the year The committee considered the representations made by the reporting on the systems and controls auditor and sought comments from representatives of the around the pricing and valuation of manager on the provision of services by the auditor and the securities.
The committee notes that effectiveness of the external audit.
The audit committee believes investments are valued using stock that the performance of the auditor is satisfactory and has exchange prices provided by third party recommended to the board that a resolution proposing the refinancial data vendors.
The committee appointment of the auditor is put to shareholders at the annual also reviews the valuation of unlisted general meeting.
Auditors tenure These and other matters, identified as posing lesser risk, were considered and discussed with the manager and the auditors  LLP have acted as auditor to the as part of the year end process.
company for over twenty years.
EU audit legislation has been published in the past year which will require the rotation of We also agreed the degree of materiality that the auditors  LLP as the audit firm by 2020.
The would apply in their work, which is 5.6m million, or about current partner, Jeremy Jensen, will have completed five years 1% of Net Assets, although the auditors would bring to the on the companys audit in 2018 and it is the view of the audit audit committees attention any significant misstatements committee that it will look to tender the audit at this time.
Mike McKeon Audit Committee Chairman 13 April 2015 42
