Audit Committee report Th roughout the year, the Audit Committee continued to focus on the integrity of the Groups fi financial reporting, the eff ectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems as well as the internal and external audit processes.
Th e Committee receives regular governance and regulatory updates and continues to review the impact of these for the Ian Tyler Audit Committee Chairman operations of the Audit Committee.
One of the core requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code is for the Annual report and accounts to provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies, and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk and that these remain effective.
The Committee devotes significant time to each of these elements.
The Committees agenda for the year ended 2014 has included the usual review of our financial results and controls, our business operations and their management of risk.
In line with the new responsibility of the Committee pursuant to the Code, the Committee has also assisted the Board in confirming that the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Audit Committee membership The Audit Committee the Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-executive Directors.
Membership and attendance at meetings Ian Tyler Chairman 4 4 Simon Ball 4 4 Mark Hamlin 4 4 Alison Platt 3 4 The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, along with a broad commercial knowledge, and is confident that the collective experience of the members enables them to act as an effective Audit Committee.
The Committee is also satisfied that it has the expertise and resource to fulfil its responsibilities effectively including those related to risk and control.
48 Cable & Wireless Communications Meetings The principal duties of the Committee include: The Committee held four scheduled meetings during the year ended Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and 31 March 2014. announcements relating to financial performance, and review The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial signi cant judgements contained in them Controller, Head of Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG To review and monitor the eff ectiveness of internal controls, LLP KPMG, the Companys external auditor, are also invited to internal audit and risk management systems attend all Committee meetings.
In May and November when the full To review and approve the internal audit programme, ensuring year and half year results are considered, the Chairman is also invited adequate resources and co-ordination with external auditors to attend.
Monitoring the financial reporting process and the eff ectiveness The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman of the statutory audit of the Annual report in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the external auditor.
Each scheduled meeting To review and monitor independence and performance of external commences with a private session, attended only by Committee auditors, recommend their appointment, re-appointment and members, the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit, to provide removal to the Board as appropriate and develop policy in relation an opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee to the provision of non-audit services and auditors without management being present.
At each meeting The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms of the Committee then receives reports from the Chief Financial reference during the period and the full terms of reference are Officer undertaken by the Group Financial Controller for the May available at www.
2014 meeting as a result of the departure of the CFO, the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, together with biannual Main activities of the Committee during the year litigation reports.
The meetings of the Committee operate so Financial reporting as to investigate the key accounting, audit and risk issues that are The Committee reviewed the half year and full year financial relevant to the Group.
The mixture and experience of its members statements with management and the external auditor with assists in providing a challenging environment in which these issues particular focus on: are debated.
The appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and Role of the Committee practices The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for Compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and financial and governance reporting requirements control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Companys external auditors.
Material areas in which signi cant judgements have been applied The Committee meetings take place just prior to a Company Board or there has been discussion with the external auditor meeting and the Committee Chairman reports to the Board, as The nature and disclosure of exceptional items a separate agenda item, on the activities of the Committee and Whether the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is matters of particular relevance for approval by the Board.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, to carry out its duties.
business model and strategy Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial reporting Annual report 2013 14 49 Audit Committee report continued The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements were as follows: Signi cant issues How the Committee addressed these issues Business transformation see accounting policies 5.1.
15, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
5, 2.8 and 3.8 Following the disposal activity in the previous year, the Group Following review, the Committee concluded it was satisfi ed is in the midst of a signifi cant transformation programme.
Th e with the signifi cant fi financial reporting issues relating to the Group has established its new operational hub in Miami and business disposals including the calculated gains on disposal isrestructuring its operations in the Caribbean to improve and the disclosure of the disposal transactions.
Accounting issues relating to the business transformation programmes were considered.
Th e Committee received analysis from management outlining the costs relating to the set-up of the Miami operational hub including redundancy and property costs in London.
Management also provided analysis of restructuring costs in the Caribbean as a result of cost initiatives such as the outsourcing of the fi eld engineering force.
Management outlined in their paper the rationale for which costs should be considered exceptional in nature, inaccordance with the Groups established criteria.
After examination, the Committee was satisfi ed with the treatment of costs relating to business transformation initiatives and with the exceptional operating charge of US$174 million.
Impairment of goodwill, PPE, intangibles and joint ventures see accounting policy 5.1.
5, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
1 and note 3.4 Th e Group has recognised a number of impairment charges in Th e Committee considered the carrying value of all the Groups respect of Property, Plant and Equipment PPE, primarily in the non-current assets.
Whilst it was clear that there was Caribbean region, in recent years.
Assessment of the carrying signifi cant headroom in the valuations of goodwill, attention value, which necessitates making projections of future cash was focused on Caribbean PPE and the carrying value of the fl ows, is subjective and requires signifi cant judgement.
Groups joint venture interest in Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago TSTT.
Management discussed with the Committee the trading performance of the Caribbean compared with forecasts.
Th e Committee were comfortable with managements conclusions that there were no indicators of impairment of Caribbean PPE.
Th e Committee was presented with analysis of valuations performed by management in respect of the Groups interest inTSTT.
Key assumptions, including discount rates, growth projections and plans for the business, were debated.
Th e report of the external auditor also provided analysis including the sensitivity of headroom calculations to changes in keyassumptions.
Following consideration and after receiving satisfactory responses to the questions raised by Committee members, theCommittee agreed with managements proposal that no impairment charge was necessary.
50 Cable & Wireless Communications Signi cant issues How the Committee addressed these issues Valuation of trade receivables and accrued income see accounting policy 5.1.
4, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
3 and note 3.1 At US$199 million, trade receivables represent a signifi cant At each meeting, the Committee receives detailed reports from asset.
Accrued income, at US$102 million, represents management analysing the ageing trends across diff erent contractual revenue recognised in advance of billing.
Assessing categories of receivables and accrued income in the business.
the recoverability of these amounts requires a high degree of Th e Committee considered the coverage provided by the judgement and analysis.
provisions proposed by management and the residual balancesoutstanding at 31 March 2014.
Having examined theinformation provided, the Committee discussed with management the recoverability of any unprovided balances, particularly those owed by governments.
As a key focus of the external audit, KPMG also provided the Committee with their analysis and conclusions on recoverability.
Having considered all the information presented, the Committee satisfi ed themselves as to the recoverability of trade receivables andaccrued income recognised in the accounts.
Revenue recognition see accounting policy 5.1.
14, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.
3 and note 2.1 Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue Th e Group has well developed internal accounting revenue recognition principles.
Th is includes the allocation of revenue recognition guidance governing the services and products between multiple deliverables, such as the sale of a handset soldin our operating units.
Th ese policies comply with IFRS orset top box together with an ongoing service contract in and are updated annually, reviewed by the external auditor abundled package.
and approved by the Committee.
All operating units are required to comply with these policies and provide periodic sign off on compliance.
Th e Committee received reports from both management and the external auditor which discuss the accounting treatment applied to revenue contracts.
Following these reviews the Committee was satisfi ed that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition had been met.
Annual report 2013 14 51 Audit Committee report continued Disclosure Committee Whistle blowing To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for The Company provides an Ethics Helpline which is administered by identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection with an independent third party and is available to all Group employees the preparation of all market releases containing material financial via a web-portal or by telephone.
This provides a mechanism information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
This for employees to raise concerns where they either do not feel committee comprises members of senior management from finance, comfortable raising the matter with local management or they legal, company secretarial and investor relations.
are not satisfied with the local management response.
A report on the use of the whistleblowing hotline is provided at each During the preparation of the Annual report and accounts, the Committee meeting.
Disclosure Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to the documents review by the Committee and approval by External audit the Board.
Audit effectiveness The Committee receives an update from the Disclosure Committee The Committee places great importance on the quality and in advance of each meeting and reviews the workings of the effectiveness of the external audit.
Whilst important for any Disclosure Committee on an annual basis.
Additional meetings of the company, the Committee believes this is of particular concern given Disclosure Committee were scheduled during the year to consider the Groups geographic spread.
The Committee receives a detailed and review the preparation of the Annual report and accounts to audit plan at the start of each audit cycle which includes the external enable the Committee to assist the Board in making their statement auditors assessment of key audit risks.
These risks are tracked confirming that the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, throughout the year and used to test management assumptions is fair, balanced and understandable.
Audit quality is assessed throughout the year by reference to the Internal control quality of the reports received by the Committee, the calibre of A review of the internal control processes and how they are senior members of the audit team and the level of challenge implemented by the regional business units was undertaken.
Specific importance was placed on the Committee was focused on the need to promote improvement of evolution of KPMGs planned audit approach to changes in our internal controls and devoted time in each meeting to do this.
In addition, the annual assessment of the performance of as hearing from Group Executive management and both the internal the external auditors was undertaken at the September Committee and external auditors, the Committee also found it useful to have meeting.
This was comprised of: representatives of local management teams attend periodically.
This was in order to discuss progress and action plans in place to improve A survey of Committee members and key colleagues, both the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control environment, financial and nonfinancial, involved in the audit particularly in parts of our Caribbean business.
Analysis of KPMGs capabilities and independence Risk management Review of the results of independent quality reports on KPMG A review of the risk management framework process and its and other audit rms implementation was undertaken.
The Committee received reports Discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit on the Groups risk management process, changes to significant To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee risks at an operational and Group level and how these are managed.
reviewed: In addition, the Committee reviewed the status of Group litigation at A report outlining KPMGs response to the annual assessment and the half year and full year and also undertook a review of tax strategy the speci c measures planned to ensure a continual improvement and risk, tax and treasury policies and Group insurance cover.
in the external audit Internal audit The arrangements for ensuring the external auditors Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, supported independence and objectivity by a team of in-house auditors based in the UK and Jamaica, The external auditors ful lment of the agreed audit plan and any supplemented by a third party to provide specific skills as required.
variations from the plan During the year, the Committee approved the internal audit plan.
The scope, extent and effectiveness of the plan is then monitored The robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in their and reviewed during the course of the year.
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements At each meeting, the Committee receives an update on internal audit The content of the external auditors reporting on internal control activities, progress against the internal audit plan, the results of any This process allows the Committee to monitor and assess the unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas.
performance of the external auditor and informed the Committees The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the in-house recommendation to the Board for the reappointment of KPMG.
audit team and the co-source arrangements taking into consideration the transformational activity during the year.
Periodically the Committee Chairman meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit, which provides further opportunity to explore internal audit findings.
52 Cable & Wireless Communications Auditor independence Audit tendering KPMG was appointed as auditor of the Company during the financial During the year, the Committee considered the Code, the findings year 2009 10 and also acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless plc of the Competition Commission and the Guidance for Audit from 1991.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council, in the context Companys choice of external auditors.
of tendering the external audit contract at least every ten years.
The Committee has established policies to maintain the independence KPMG has been the Auditor of the Group since the demerger of the external auditor and its personnel and to govern the provision from Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc in 2010 and also prior to this.
of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor The Group has not undertaken an audit tender in the last ten years.
Permitted and prohibited services are clearly At the September meeting, the Committee considered the identified along with the processes to be followed for the approval appropriateness of a tender process, particularly given the of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements with an requirement for the Senior Statutory Auditor to rotate following expected fee in excess of US$250,000 require the prior approval the completion of the 2014 audit.
Consideration was also given to: of the Committee Chairman and to be reported to the Committee.
i the significant transformation currently ongoing across the Group, including the establishment of a new operational hub in For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee approved fees Miami and restructuring of the Groups operations in the Caribbean: for audit services of US$3.6 million, together with fees for auditand ii the performance of KPMG and the findings from the annual related regulatory reporting of US$0.5 million and non-audit work auditor effectiveness assessment.
The Committee concluded that of US$1.3 million.
The nature of the services provided is set out in a tender during the year ended 31 March 2014 was not in the note 2.3.
2 to the consolidated financial statements.
There is no Groups interest.
The Board has therefore accepted the Committees limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor recommendation that KPMG should be retained for the financial to the Company.
In line with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices The Committee is committed to undertaking a tender process Board, the external auditor is required to rotate the audit and, taking the above into account, has recommended that this engagement partner responsible for the Group audit after a be undertaken during 2015. maximum period of five years.
Accordingly, Peter Meehan will rotate off the engagement following conclusion of the 2014 audit.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors and A succession plan is in place within KPMG in order to facilitate corporate governance report on pages 38 to 46. the handover.
Ian Tyler Chairman, Audit Committee 20 May 2014 Annual report 2013 14 53
