Nomination Committee report Th e Nomination Committee has given signifi cant focus to the implications of the transformation of the business and establishing a new operating hub in Miami, succession planning for the Executive Directors and the composition of the Board.
Th e Board is delighted to have attracted someone of Phil Bentleys calibre to lead the Company.
Sir Richard Lapthorne Nomination Committee membership Nomination Committee Chairman The Nomination Committee the Committee was chaired by Sir Richard Lapthorne throughout the year.
All members of the Committee, apart from the Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
Membership and attendance at meetings Sir Richard Lapthorne Chairman 9 9 Simon Ball 9 9 Mark Hamlin 9 9 Alison Platt 9 9 Ian Tyler 9 9 Role of the Committee The terms of reference set out the principal duties of the Committee and its authority to carry out its duties.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
The principal duties of the Committee include: To review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations with regard to any changes To give full consideration to succession planning for key roles To identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, having evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board To review the time commitment required from Non-executive Directors To ensure that the balance of the Board and its committees is consistent with good corporate governance and complies with the minimum requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code 54 Cable & Wireless Communications In accordance with the terms of reference, the Committee has Board diversity reviewed succession planning requirements and the need to The Board remains supportive of Lord Davies recommendations ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board as and on board diversity.
The Board understands the importance of when required.
diversity, including gender, and recognises the importance of women having greater representation in senior roles.
The Boards Meetings policy is that the search for Board candidates will continue to be The Nomination Committee met on nine occasions in the period conducted, and appointments made, with due regard to the 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014. benefits of diversity on the Board and where appropriate specialist search consultants engaged to assist in the search for suitable Main activities of the Committee during the year candidates.
However, all appointments to the Board are ultimately During the year, the Committee assessed the competencies, based on merit, measured against objective criteria, and the skills profile and skill set required of a Chief Executive given the strategic and experience the individual can bring to the Board taking into direction of the Group.
JCA Group, an independent boardroom account a number of factors including the existing size of the consultancy firm, was appointed to undertake the search for a new Board, the balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors Chief Executive.
JCA Group has no other connection with the as well as the existing skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Company.
JCA Group were provided with detailed criteria outlining already represented and the likely future requirements.
As such, the requirements of suitable candidates.
The search was based the Board does not consider that it is necessary to set any formal on the profile determined by the Committee and was undertaken measurable objectives in relation to diversity at this juncture.
on a global basis across a number of target sectors.
After a The composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, comprehensive selection process, a list of potential candidates was independence, knowledge and diversity on the Board will be submitted to the Committee, and each was considered based on reviewed annually as part of the Board evaluation process.
After an initial review, potential candidates were interviewed by the Group Chairman, and further Sir Richard Lapthorne interviews were held with the members of the Committee.
Chairman, Nomination Committee Following this process, the Committee recommended the 20 May 2014 appointment of Phil Bentley to the Board in October 2013 based on Phils proven leadership skills together with his strong operational capability and focus on customer experience.
The Committee has also discussed the requirements for a new Chief Financial Officer.
An external recruitment agency has been retained to undertake the search for a new Chief Financial Officer and we are in the process of appointing a new CFO.
In December 2013, the Committee considered and recommended the re-appointment of Non-executive Director, Ian Tyler for a further three year period.
Ian Tyler has been on the Board of the Company since January 2011.
In March 2014, the Committee considered and recommended the re-appointment of Non-executive Director, Simon Ball for a further one year period.
Simon Ball has been on the Board of the Company since demerger in March 2010, and prior to this served as a Non-executive Director of Cable and Wireless plc from 1 May 2006.
The re-appointment of Simon Ball was considered in the light of the Code requirements for his continued independence.
The Committee reviewed both Ian and Simons performance and effectiveness at the Board and it was considered that their skills and breadth of experience would be valuable in retaining a well-balanced Board.
