Directors and corporate governance report Dear Shareholder, Th e transformation of our business to a focused operator has been completed during the year.
Eff ective corporate governance isabout delegating safely and is essential to ensure sustainable business performance.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that the Group is governed Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE properly and responsibly.
Chairman During the year our governance framework has been adapted to reflect the focus of our business on a single geography and the establishment of a new operating hub in Miami.
The transition from Tony Rice to Phil Bentley as Chief Executive went smoothly.
We have a comprehensive and well developed induction plan for our Directors.
Tim Pennington, Chief Financial Officer stood down from the Board in February 2014, and we are in the process of appointing a new CFO.
During the year, we have engaged with our major shareholders and governance bodies on a number of occasions, mainly in respect of our Directors remuneration policy as we align our remuneration with our transformed business and growth strategy.
The dialogue has been constructive and we will continue to engage regarding key issues in the future.
Our Directors remuneration policy and full details of performance metrics and remuneration payments are disclosed in our Directors remuneration report, which is prepared for the first time in accordance with the new regulations as introduced by the UK Government.
Our commitment to ethical business behaviour is long standing and we operate a culture where everyone is required to operate with integrity at all time and maintain the trust of our external stakeholders.
We were pleased to become a partner of Transparency International during the year as we share the organisations views about corrupt and unethical business practices.
We are committed to operating fairly and with integrity in all of our markets and believe that corruption and bribery harm economies by deterring inward investment and impact our customers by increasing business costs.
Sir Richard Lapthorne 20 May 2014 38 Cable & Wireless Communications
