Report of the Audit Committee Audit Committee connection with the electronic filing of tax returns: and iv As recommended by the AIC Code, an Audit Committee has services in connection with the calculation of B Ordinary been established with written terms of reference, copies of share capitalisation ratios.
We will review any future fees in which are available upon request from the Company the light of the requirement to maintain the auditors Secretary and on the Company's website.
The Audit independence and objectivity: Committee comprises the whole Board excluding Dr Carter we review a statement from the Manager detailing the and I, Marcia Campbell, am the Chairman.
The members of arrangements in place within Aberdeen whereby Aberdeen the Audit Committee are each independent and free from staff may, in confidence, escalate concerns about possible any relationship that would interfere with our impartial improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other judgement in carrying out our responsibilities.
We have matters: satisfied ourselves that at least one of the Committees we make recommendations in relation to the appointment members has recent and relevant financial experience.
We of the auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms met three times during the year.
of engagement of the auditor: and we monitor and review the auditors independence, The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
In accordance with those terms of reference: Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are shown on page 30. we review and monitor the internal control systems and risk management systems including review of non financial The Board has received a letter from EY, its auditor, which risks and the Managers policy on information security notes that EY has policies and procedures in place that instil cyber risk on which the Company is reliant.
The Directors professional values as part of its firms culture and ensure statement on the Companys internal controls and risk that the highest standards of objectivity and independence management is set out of pages 30 to 31: and integrity are maintained.
we consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit we monitor the integrity of the half yearly and annual services provided by the independent auditor during the year, financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and together with the independent auditors procedures in challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of connection with the provision of such services, and remains the Manager: satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence is we review, and report to the Board on, the significant being safeguarded.
EY is typically retained to provide non financial reporting issues and judgements made in audit services to the Company in situations where the connection with the preparation of the Companys financial Manager has undertaken a detailed review of potential statements, interim reports, announcements and related advisors and chosen to use EY for a number of other clients formal statements: that it acts for.
This is in the best interests of the Company we review the content of the Annual Report and financial as it allows the Company to benefit significantly from pricing statements and make recommendations to the Board on economies of scale.
In these situations the Audit Committee whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and is presented with the results of the Managers review and is understandable and provides the information necessary for able to decide on a case by case basis whether there is any shareholders to assess the Companys performance, potential impact upon the auditors independence.
The Audit business model and strategy: Committee does not believe that the level of non audit fees we meet with the auditor to review the proposed audit payable by the Company is material in any way for EY and programme of work and the findings of the auditor.
The confirms its belief that EY is independent in accordance with Directors also use this as an opportunity to assess the the UK Corporate Governance Code.
effectiveness of the audit process: we also meet in private with the auditor, without any Potential Issues representatives of the Manager being present and we meet During our review of the Companys financial statements for in private with a representative from the Managers internal the year ended 31 December 2014, we considered the audit department: following potential issues: we develop and implement policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
Non-audit fees of Valuation, Existence and Ownership of Investments 37,000 paid to the auditor during the year under review Mitigation - The valuation of investments is undertaken in were for i agreed upon procedures in connection with the accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in notes Half Yearly Report: ii taxation services including one off 1 a and 1 c to the financial statements on page 47.
All claims for withholding tax repayments: iii services in investments are quoted in active markets and can be verified Murray International Trust PLC 35 Report of the Audit Committee continued against daily market prices.
97.7% of investments are makes the Committee aware of any potential issues, considered to be liquid and are therefore categorised as Level explaining all relevant safeguards.
1 within the FRS 29 fair value hierarchy.
2.3% of investments quality of audit work including the ability to resolve issues are considered to be subject to some risk of illiquidity and in a timely manner identified issues are satisfactorily and are therefore categorised as Level 2 within the FRS 29 fair promptly resolved, its communications presentation of value hierarchy.
The portfolio is reviewed and verified by the outputs the explanation of the audit plan, any deviations Manager on a regular basis and management accounts from it and the subsequent audit findings are including a full portfolio listing are prepared each month and comprehensive and comprehensible, and working circulated to the Board.
BNY Mellon has been appointed as relationship with management the auditor has a custodian and depositary to safeguard the assets of the constructive working relationship with the Manager.
The Depositary checks the consistency and quality of people and service including continuity and accuracy of its records on a monthly basis and reports its succession plans the audit team is made up of sufficient, findings to AFML.
Separately, the investment portfolio is suitably experienced staff with provision made for reconciled regularly by the Manager and a reconciliation is knowledge of the investment trust sector and retention on also reviewed by the auditor.
Correct Calculation of Management and Performance Fees EY, and predecessor firms, have held office as auditor since Mitigation - The management and performance fees are the incorporation of the Company in 1907.
In accordance calculated by the Manager and reviewed periodically by the with present professional guidelines the Senior Statutory Board.
The auditor reperforms the calculations as part of Auditor is rotated after no more than five years and the year their audit.
ended 31 December 2014 will be the first year for which the present Senior Statutory Auditor has served.
The Committee Recognition of Investment Income considers EY, the Companys auditor, to be independent of Mitigation - The recognition of investment income is the Company.
The Audit Committee arranged, in 2013, a undertaken in accordance with accounting policy note 1 b tender for the Companys external audit and invited EY to to the financial statements on page 47.
Special dividends are participate, alongside a number of other audit firms of allocated to the capital or revenue accounts according to the varying size.
Following the tender, the Audit Committee nature of the payment and the intention of the underlying recommended to the Board that the reappointment of EY as company.
The Manager provides monthly internal control auditor be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM and reports to the Board.
The allocation of material special shareholders approved the reappointment of EY as auditor at dividends is also reviewed by the auditor.
Under EU regulations, EY are required to rotate as auditor no later than 2019 and, accordingly, the Compliance with Sections 1158 and 1159 Board expects to hold the next tender for external audit Mitigation - Approval for the Company as an investment services in 2018. trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2012 has been obtained The Committee considers EY, the Companys auditor, to be and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is independent of the Company and therefore has monitored on a regular basis by the Manager and Board.
recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of EY be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
Going Concern Mitigation - The Directors have considered the Companys For and on behalf of the Audit Committee investment objective and risk management policies, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow Marcia Campbell projections.
As a result, they have determined that the Audit Committee Chairman Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to 9 March 2015 continue in operational existence for at least 12 months.
Review of Auditor We have reviewed the effectiveness of the auditor including: independence the Audit Committee discusses with the auditor, at least annually, the steps the auditor takes to ensure its independence and objectivity and the auditor 36 Murray International Trust PLC
