Statement of Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors This Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of the The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, all of Directors Report which is shown on pages 25 to 28. whom are considered to be independent of Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML and the Manager Aberdeen Asset Introduction Managers Limited or the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate exercise of their independent judgement on issues of governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 23 and 24 of in the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code which is this report and indicate their range of high level industrial, available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: commercial and professional experience, within an www.
The Board confirms that the Company has international perspective.
complied throughout the accounting period with the relevant provisions contained within the UK Code.
The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
The Board has also considered the principles and During the year ended 31 December 2014 there were six recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance scheduled Board meetings together with a further four ad AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance hoc Board meetings and a separate strategy meeting Guide for investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code excluding allotment meetings.
The primary focus at regular is available on the AICs website: www.
The AIC Board meetings is a review of investment performance and Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the associated matters, including gearing, asset allocation, principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as premium and or discount control, marketing and investor well as setting out additional principles and relations, peer group information and industry issues.
recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to Between these meetings, the Board maintains regular the Company.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it The Board considers that reporting by reference to the for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and the AIC control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and Guide which incorporates the UK Code will provide better compliance issues.
These matters include: information to shareholders.
The maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk The Company has complied with the recommendations of management policies.
the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, The monitoring of the business activities of the Company except as set out below.
ranging from analysis of investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance The UK Code includes provisions relating to: analysis.
Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the The role of the chief executive.
interim and annual financial statements and approval and Executive directors remuneration.
recommendation of the interim and final dividends The need for an internal audit function.
Setting the level of gearing which the Manager may For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in operate.
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers Board appointments and removals and the related terms these provisions are not relevant to the position of the subject to appropriate shareholder approval.
Company, being an externally managed investment Appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day and conditions of the management and administration management and administrative functions are outsourced to agreements relating thereto.
As a result, the Company has no executive Terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Conduct has therefore not reported further in respect of these Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, provisions.
listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
Murray International Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The Chairman of the Company is an independent nonThe Board and Committees have undertaken their annual executive Director.
Lady Balfour was appointed senior performance evaluation, by means of general discussion, independent Director on 29 April 2014 following the questionnaire and individual interviews between the retirement of Mr Shedden.
On 1 May 2014 Mr Hardie was Chairman and the other Directors, to ensure that all Directors appointed as an independent non-executive Director.
have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and Committees.
In 2012, the Board There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take employed the independent services of Law Debenture independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Governance Services Limited to carry out an external Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice evaluation of the Boards and individual Directors and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its performance.
Law Debenture does not have any other appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: relationships with the Company.
It is the Boards intention to use an external consultant to assist in the Boards for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: performance evaluation at least every three years.
As part of under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good the Directors evaluation process the training needs of information flows with the Board and its committees, as Directors, if any, were discussed and agreed.
well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required: and, The Board and Nomination Committee have also reviewed for advising through the Chairman on all corporate the Chairmans and Directors other commitments and are governance matters.
satisfied that the Chairman and other Directors are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company and contribute When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is to the effective running of the Company.
The Chairman has arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular been satisfactorily evaluated by his fellow Directors.
The basis, with key information on the Companys policies, Board is satisfied with its current balance, performance and regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
the contributions of its Directors during the year.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
External Agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee including AFML, the Manager and other service providers, meetings held during the year as shown below with their certain services: the management of the investment eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : portfolio, the depositary custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and Other Nom Audit Other the day to day accounting and company secretarial B Board Board Com Com Com requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after A K J Carter 6 6 4 4 2 2 n a 3 3 full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and Lady Balfour of 6 6 4 4 1 2 3 3 3 4 cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs Burleigh of the Company.
The Board receives and considers regular J D Best 5 6 2 4 1 2 2 3 3 4 monitoring reports from the Manager in respect of the M Campbell 6 6 4 4 2 2 3 3 4 4 delegated service providers.
In addition ad hoc reports and P W 6 6 4 4 1 2 3 3 3 4 information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Dunscombe C D Hardie 4 4 1 1 0 0 2 2 2 2 Internal Controls and Risk Management D A C Shedden 2 2 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the A Dr Carter is not a member of either the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its Committee but attended all Committee meetings by invitation B effectiveness.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's excluding ad hoc share allotment meetings C publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Mr Hardie was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2014 D Mr Shedden retired from the Board on 29 April 2014 Directors on the Combined Code the FRC guidance, the Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for To enable the Board to function effectively and allow identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of financial statements, and this process is regularly reviewed papers, including the Managers review and discussion by the Board and accords with the FRC Guidance.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
30 Murray International Trust PLC The design, implementation and maintenance of controls and analysis of the companies concerned include detailed procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to appraisal and due diligence: manage its affairs properly extends to operational and as a matter of course the compliance department of AFML compliance controls and risk management.
The Board has continually reviews the Managers operations: prepared its own risk register which identifies potential risks written agreements are in place which specifically define relating to strategy, investment management, shareholders, the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third marketing, gearing, regulatory and financial obligations: third party service providers and monitoring reports are received party service providers and the Board.
The Board considers from these providers when required: the potential cause and possible impact of these risks as well the Board has considered the need for an internal audit as reviewing the controls in place to mitigate these potential function but, because of the compliance and internal risks.
A risk is rated by having a likelihood and an impact control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to rating and the residual risk is plotted on a heat map and is place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit reviewed regularly.
procedures: and twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of assessment of internal controls by considering internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process documentation from the Manager, including its internal for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by audit and compliance functions and taking account of the Company and the policies and procedures by which these events since the relevant period end.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented The Directors have delegated the investment management of contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities the Companys assets to AFML within overall guidelines and that have been delegated to external professional this embraces implementation of the system of internal organisations.
control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six monitored and supported by AFMLs internal audit function monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, direct access to the Directors at any time.
including compliance with the terms of the management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve The internal control systems are designed to meet the controls are implemented.
Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are Risks are identified and documented through a risk designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure management framework by each function within the to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market, material misstatement or loss.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Committees Any relevant weaknesses identified are reported to the Board Nomination Committee and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements A Nomination Committee has been established with written to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action terms of reference, copies of which are available upon required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
request from the Company Secretary, and also on the Company's website.
The Nomination Committee met twice The key components designed to provide effective internal during the year and comprises the whole Board with Dr control for the year under review and up to the date of this Carter serving as Chairman.
All members are independent Report are outlined below: from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities.
the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on and review its investment performance: the following matters: the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria: the identification and nomination of candidates to fill there are specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of Reports on these issues, including performance statistics the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the out in conjunction with the Board by an independent firm Board.
The Managers investment process and financial of consultants: Murray International Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued plans for succession: twice during the year and comprises the whole Board with Dr the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the Carter serving as Chairman.
All the members are conclusion of their specified term of office: independent and free from any relationship that would the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles responsibilities.
of Association: the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and The Committee meets at least annually in order to review the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. matters concerning the management agreement which exists Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the with Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited.
Details of the position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom management agreement are shown on pages 25 and 26 of would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
During the year the Nomination Committee continued the Remuneration Committee process of succession planning and instigated a search for a A Remuneration Committee has been established with new Director using the services of Fletcher Jones Limited as written terms of reference, copies of which are available its independent external recruitment consultant.
Fletcher upon request from the Company Secretary and on the Jones provides recruitment services to the Company from Company's website.
The Remuneration Committee met time to time but there are no other relationships between once during the year and comprises the whole Board the Company and Fletcher Jones.
The Committee identified excluding Dr Carter with Lady Balfour serving as Chairman.
a specification for the new Director including the requisite All the members are independent and free from any skills and experience that would complement the existing relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in Board and having due regard for the benefits of diversity on carrying out their responsibilities.
The Boards overriding priority in appointing new Directors to the Board is to identify the candidate with the The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to best range of skills and experience to complement existing attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future Directors.
However, the Board recognises the benefits of development and success of the Company.
The Companys diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of positions become available as a result of retirement or the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the resignation, the Company ensures that a diverse group of Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38. candidates is considered.
The Committee interviewed a short list of high quality candidates and identified Mr David Directors Terms of Appointment Hardie as the preferred candidate.
Mr Hardie was appointed All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term to the Board with effect from 1 May 2014. of three years, subject to annual re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of In accordance with Principle 3 of the AICs Code of Corporate Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Governance which recommends that the directors of FTSE Meeting following their appointment.
Although the Articles 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for shareholders, all the members of the Board will retire at the re-election at least once every three years, in accordance forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer with corporate governance best practice, each Director themselves for re-election.
Accordingly, the Committee also submits for annual re-election.
Any Director who seeks reconsidered the re-election of all the Directors including the election beyond six years will be subject to particularly re-election of Mr Hardie, who, having been appointed during rigorous review to ensure that their performance continues the year will retire and submit himself for re-election at the to be effective.
2015 AGM in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Committee concluded that the knowledge and Policy on Tenure experience of each of the Directors is greatly valued by the The Board has assessed the independence of the Directors Board and recommended their re-election at the forthcoming against the criteria set out in the Codes, and has concluded AGM.
that they are all independent of the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the Management Engagement Committee exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board takes the As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management view that independence is not compromised by length of Engagement Committee has been established with written tenure on the Board and that experience can add terms of reference, copies of which are available upon significantly to the Boards strength.
In the case of Mr Best request from the Company Secretary and on the Company's and Lady Balfour who have been Directors since 2005 and website.
The Management Engagement Committee met 32 Murray International Trust PLC 2003 respectively, the Board takes the view that their questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The independence has not been compromised by their length of number of proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the service and that experience as well as a long-term Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt perspective can add significant value to a well-balanced with on a show of hands.
investment trust company board comprising of nonexecutive directors.
In considering their independence, the Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the Directors considered a number of factors including their free shareholder information telephone service run by the experience, integrity and judgement.
The Directors also Manager, and the Company and the Manager respond to recognised that the Directors have no connection with the letters from shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with Manager, are not professional advisers who have provided major shareholders and reports back to the Board on these services to the Manager or the Board, do not serve on any visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and other board of a company managed by the Manager or serve other publications can be downloaded is maintained on as directors on companies with any of the other Companys www.
For these reasons the Board excluding the individual Directors believes the Directors remain The Boards policy is to communicate directly with independent notwithstanding their length of service.
shareholders and their representative bodies without the involvement of the management group either the Company Secretary or the Manager in situations where direct Communication with Shareholders communication is required.
Representatives from the Board The Company places great importance on communication meet with major shareholders regularly.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and reports back Substantial Interests to the Board on these meetings.
At 31 December 2014 the following were registered or had The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures notified the Company as being interested in 3% or more of that, when its shares are held in the name of nominee the Company's Ordinary share capital: companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of Number of % of Ordinary shares Ordinary shareholder communications for distribution to their Name of shareholder held shares held customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Brewin Dolphin Stockbrokers 10,568,167 8.3 Aberdeen Investment Trust 9,455,190 7.4 A Participants in the Aberdeen Retail Savings Plans the Retail Savings Plans Plans, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the Speirs & Jeffrey Stockbrokers 9,272,386 7.3 Plans administrator, are given the opportunity to vote by Investec Wealth & Investment 6,527,442 5.1 means of a Letter of Direction enclosed with the Annual Rathbones 6,278,623 4.9 Report.
The Letter of Direction is forwarded to the A Alliance Trust Savings 4,914,029 3.9 administrator of the Plans, who will complete a proxy on A Non-beneficial interests behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants Number of B % of B who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the Ordinary Ordinary opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As shares held shares held required under the Code, the Annual Report is posted to Speirs & Jeffrey 244,223 25.0 shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting.
There have been no significant changes notified in respect of the above holdings between 31 December 2014 and 9 March The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting 2015. and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report on pages 27 and 28.
Separate resolutions are Proxy Voting and Stewardship proposed for each issue.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC published the UK Stewardship Code for institutional shareholders on 2 July The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting 2010.
The purpose of the Code is to enhance the quality of is an event for all shareholders and encourages them to engagement between institutional investors and companies attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and the the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put Murray International Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The FRC is encouraging institutional investors to make a statement of their commitment to the Code.
The Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies to the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the portfolio company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the exercise of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all shares held by the Company.
The Board has reviewed, and endorses, the Managers Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the Managers website, at: http: www.
nsf Lit  This sets out the Managers framework on corporate governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested or is considering investing.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Statement of Compliance with the Code, which appears on the Managers website, at: http: www.
nsf AboutUs  At each of its meetings the Board receives from the Manager reports on the exercise by the Manager of the Companys voting rights.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
The Directors, through the Companys Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate objective however is to deliver superior investment returns for its shareholders.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in the above areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
Kevin Carter Chairman 9 March 2015 34 Murray International Trust PLC
