CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly.
Certain matters are considered at all quarterly board meetings including the performance of the investments, NAV and share price and associated matters such as asset allocation, risks, strategy, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Consideration is also given to administration and corporate governance matters, and where applicable, reports are received from the board committees.
Directors unable to attend a board meeting are provided with the board papers and can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or another non-executive Director.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees in the 2014 financial year Remuneration and Management Engagement Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Committee Number of meetings during the year 7 3 2 1 William Frewen 4 3 1 1 Rupert Dorey 0 0 0 0 Richard Battey 7 3 2 1 Sandra Platts 7 3 2 1 In addition to these meetings, 4 ad-hoc meetings and 1 Committee meeting were held during the year for various matters including but not limited to scrip dividends and C share conversion.
Mr Frewen is resident in the UK and prevented by the Companys Articles from attending board meetings from the UK.
It is not deemed cost effective for the Company for him to travel to Guernsey for the regular meetings to approve dividends in line with the Companys dividend policy: he does however attend all quarterly board meetings.
Rupert Dorey was appointed on 1 March 2015 and as such did not attend any meetings in 2014.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Management Engagement Committee and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee with defined terms of reference and duties.
Further details of these committees can be found in their reports on pages 22 to 37.
The terms of reference for each committee can be found on the Companys website www.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 21
