CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Relationship with the Investment Manager, Company Secretary and the Administrator The Board has delegated various duties to external parties including the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services including the safeguarding of assets, the registration services and the day-to-day company secretarial, administration and accounting services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the Investment Manager and Company Secretary along with ad hoc reports and information supplied to the Board as required.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator also ensure that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company within certain parameters.
The Directors have access to the advice and service of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board, the Investment Manager, Company Secretary and the Administrator operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Shareholder Engagement The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with shareholders is important for the long-term prospects of the Company.
It has, since admission, sought engagement with shareholders.
Where appropriate the Chairman, and other Directors are available for discussion about governance and strategy with shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board receives feedback on the views of shareholders from its Corporate Brokers and the Investment Manager, and shareholders are welcome to contact the Directors at any time via the Company Secretary.
During the year the Company continued quarterly investor update calls, which can be accessed via conference call or WebEx, details are published via an RIS.
Shareholders also had the opportunity to meet the Chairman at an investor event held at the War Rooms, which all investors were welcome to attend.
The Board also welcomes the opportunity to meet with investors on a one-to-one basis, upon request.
The Board believes that the AGM provides an appropriate forum for shareholders to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
All Directors will attend the AGM.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee at the AGM.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution will be made available to shareholders at the meeting and will be posted on the Companys website following the meeting.
The Annual and Half-Year Reports, monthly fact sheet and monthly holdings are available to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication on the London Stock Exchange of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares.
The Board is informed of relevant promotional documents issued by the Investment Manager.
All documents issued by the Company can be viewed on the website, www.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 31
