Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate Governance statement All of these changes took effect immediately following the Companys Annual Dear shareholder General Meeting AGM in May 2014 and I am pleased to report that the Board has continued to function efficiently and effectively since those changes.
James Smith joined the Company in March 2014 and there was a smooth handover of I would like to assure shareholders responsibilities from Jann Brown to James Smith prior to his appointment as that since taking over as non-executive CFO in May 2014.
Chairman in May 2014, corporate Since standing down as executive directors in May 2014, Dr Mike Watts and governance remains a matter of Jann Brown continued in senior roles with the Company for a proportion of their one-year notice period with their time dedicated solely to seeking to resolve the high importance for the Company.
Mike and Jann held no executive director responsibilities during Maintaining and promoting high this period.
The Board agreed in October 2014 to bring Mike and Janns notice period to an end and day-to-day responsibility for the Indian tax issue was passed standards of corporate governance to James Smith at that time.
is central to my role as Chairman and Following these changes, the Board currently comprises myself as Chairman: two I firmly believe that this is an essential executive directors the Chief Executive and the CFO : and four non-executive prerequisite to delivering sustainable directors, all but one of whom are independent.
The Company recognises that as Todd Hunt has served on the Board for more than nine years he can no longer business performance.
technically be considered to be an independent non-executive director.
As such the composition of the Board continues to comply with the provisions of the UK At Cairn we operate with integrity at all times, recognising that in Corporate Governance Code, other than in respect of Mr Hunts independence.
doing so the Company will maintain the trust of its many stakeholders.
Despite this technical non-compliance with the Code, the Board are however confident that Mr Hunts judgement remains independent and that he continues The Cairn Board is committed to promoting high standards to display all of the behaviours expected of our independent non-executive of corporate governance and understands that an effective, directors see page 65. challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the Company to deliver its strategy and shareholders long-term interests, whilst Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code also generating investor confidence that the business is conducting As a company incorporated in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London Stock itself in a responsible manner.
Further information on our strategy, Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Corporate Governance business model and approach to operating responsibly can be found Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Code.
The Board were delighted when, in November 2014, the Company received two awards in respect of its 2013 annual report, winning The Board continually reviews the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Best Strategic Report in the FTSE 250 category at the ICSA Code and has amended or enhanced the Companys governance framework Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Excellence to ensure that the Company complies with the Code other than as detailed on in Governance Awards and Best Annual Report in the FTSE 250 page 72.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles category at the Investor Relations Society Awards.
The Company in sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended was also highly commended for its corporate governance reporting 31 December 2014.
This statement reports compliance with the version of the in the PwC Building Public Trust awards in December 2014.
I would Code published in September 2012.
The Company recognises that the UK personally like to take this opportunity to thank the team involved Corporate Governance Code was amended in September 2014 and intends in annual reporting at Cairn for their continuous effort in producing to report against the revised version of the Code in next years annual report.
such an exemplary standard of reporting.
The Board Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the industry and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, operational and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites for appointment.
This also applies to senior management appointments below Board level and to our succession planning.
Following the changes described above, the Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The current directors biographies are on pages 58 and 59.
There have been a number of significant changes to the Cairn Board during 2014: Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman and I succeeded him in The Company considers the significant refreshment of the Board during 2014 this role: to be positive as it brings new thinking to the Company as well as ensuring that Dr Mike Watts Deputy Chief Executive stepped down as an executive the Boards collective experiences equip it to direct the Companys strategy and director: meet its business needs as they evolve over time.
The Board is also mindful that Jann Brown Managing Director & CFO stepped down as an executive an appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective and director: those who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairns.
James Smith was appointed Chief Financial Officer CFO : and Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Corporate Governance statement continued of the previous Chairman and the new Chairman has continued to follow The Board continued up on these.
Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed not only on gender but also on nationality and experience.
Following the retirement of Jann This year, given the significant changes to the Board during the review period, Brown as Managing Director & CFO in May 2014 the number of women on the it was agreed at the August 2014 Board meeting that an internal rather than Cairn Board has reduced from two to one.
The Board does however continue to external board performance evaluation would once again be most beneficial to demonstrate diversity in the broader sense, with 14% female representation and the Company.
The Chairman and Company Secretary subsequently discussed directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the UK, bringing how best to facilitate this and it was decided that the Company Secretary should gender diversity and international experience to the Board.
The Boards diverse prepare a questionnaire for this purpose.
range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, The questionnaire was approved by the Chairman and this was subsequently financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
Further information on completed by all directors to evaluate the performance of the Board, each of diversity within Cairn is included in the report of the Nomination Committee on its committees, individual Board members and the Chairman.
page 68 and in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chairman held a series of Division of responsibilities between Chairman one-to-one meetings with each of the directors in December 2014 in order and Chief Executive to discuss the answers to the questionnaires.
The Chairmans own appraisal The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and was conducted by the senior independent director who did this through the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
a series of one-to-one meetings with the other directors before meeting with the Chairman to present feedback.
The Chairmans responsibilities include: the leadership and effective running of the Board: The findings of the internal evaluation were then discussed with the Board at ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the determination the March 2015 Board meeting and a number of action points agreed, including and development of the Groups strategy: the following: acting as guardian and facilitator of the Boards decision-making process: ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions: and ensuring open communications with shareholders and, in particular, Key actions Progress understanding their issues and concerns with regard to governance.
Strategy: in view of market The Board will conduct an in The Chairmans other significant commitments out-with the Company are included influences impacting on the sector depth strategy session during in his biography on page 58 and there were no changes to these during 2014. in which the Company operates, 2015 in addition to their regular discussions of strategy the Board recognises that strategy The Chief Executives responsibilities include: is a dynamic issue and as such must at scheduled Board meetings.
managing the Groups business and proposing and developing the Companys be kept under regular review.
strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board: leading the Senior Leadership Team in implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees: Succession planning: it was The Chairman has requested identified that the Board require that a session on succession ensuring the successful and efficient achievement of the Companys Key a clearer process for fully planning be built in to the Performance Indicators KPIs and objectives: and understanding succession planning Board agenda during 2015. providing coherent leadership of the Company in representing the Company beneath Board level, including The Board recognise that this to its stakeholders.
assessing the strength of executive matter should be a topic in management, succession planning which all directors participate Senior independent director risks and the organisation structure going forward rather than Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns senior independent non-executive director.
within which the executive delegated to a Board The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive director are team works.
as follows: to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary Board composition: following A recruitment process is with other directors when necessary: the changes to the Board during underway with a number to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through 2014 the Board have committed of interviews scheduled the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive to appoint up to two new for H1 2015. directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate: and non-executive directors.
to meet with the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Re-election of directors Following the internal performance evaluation process conducted in 2014, the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Companys Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
As such, each of and that each director has performed well in respect of their roles on the Board the directors will seek re-election at the AGM to be held on 14 May 2015. and its committees.
Full biographical details of the current directors can be found in the Board of Directors section on pages 58 and 59.
As explained above, some improvements have been identified and have already been or will be addressed during 2015.
Following the results of the individual Performance evaluation performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that performance continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate the performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to commitment to their role.
The Company conducted an externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2012 and an internal evaluation in 2013.
The executive directors also have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against KPIs which are set annually further details of The 2013 evaluation resulted in some important recommendations for improving the KPIs can be found in the KPI section on pages 18 to 21.
The bonuses payable the Boards effectiveness which were set out in last years corporate governance to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described statement.
The majority of these were addressed in Q1 2014 under the leadership further in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97 are linked 64 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 directly to the results of these reviews.
Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information The Company also provides on an ongoing basis the necessary resources Independence of non-executive directors for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In The Board evaluation and review process covered the independence of particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, their development training to its directors.
In 2014, the Company continued with objectivity and their contribution to the Board and its committees.
The Board its practice of providing a directors education programme consisting of a is of the view that the following behaviours are essential for a director to be number of seminars for Board members, which are presented by the Companys considered independent: external advisers guest speakers members of senior management, on subjects provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors: regulation and market practice.
During 2014, the subjects covered by questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously these seminars included: and dispassionately: Cairn and the Scottish independence referendum: acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders: a Board risk workshop facilitated by the Companys internal auditor which has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Companys business and of the included a deep dive and discussion of the Companys top risks: market as a whole which provides a solid background against which they can a corporate governance update: consider the Companys strategy objectively and help the executive directors a cyber security briefing: and develop proposals on strategy: and asset presentations by senior managers at pre-Board meetings.
has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either directly or indirectly.
These seminars are held prior to Board meetings and are attended by all directors present at such meetings the Company keeps a record of attendance.
Any director Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all media against these criteria, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors articles relating to the Company and all analyst reports relating to the Company are demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, distributed to all directors.
therefore, each considered independent by the Board.
The Board does however recognise that, in view of the characteristics of independence Information and support set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, Todd Hunt cannot The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to technically be deemed independent given his length of service.
The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of high quality information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and Induction and development information are delivered in a timely fashion.
Board and committee papers New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
are delivered securely through an electronic platform.
This involves meetings with other Board members in particular the Chairman, senior management and the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, any new The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible director is provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains a wide for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance range of materials including: matters, and each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed Board by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent Directors and Company Secretarys contact details: list of Board and professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
committee members and dates of appointment: schedule of matters reserved to the Board: financial delegations of authority: Board papers and minutes Directors and officers liability insurance of previous meetings: schedule of dates for Board and committee meetings: The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
Committees Conflicts of interest Terms of reference for all Board committees.
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation Risk of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
All directors are Terms of reference for Risk Management Committee and minutes of last aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary or Deputy meeting: current Group Risk Matrix and Risk Appetite Statement: FRC Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
There are no conflict and Business Reporting.
matters which require to be authorised for the current directors.
The Board will Key policies continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Group Corporate Responsibility Business Principles: Group Code of Business Ethics:  ABC Management System: ABC Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority Business Partner Due Diligence Procedure: Dealing Rules and Model Code: The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for Procedures, Systems and Controls for Compliance with the Listing Rules and decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy Disclosure Rules.
of the Company and approval of the annual report and accounts: the Companys Organisation annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount: Group Structure Chart: latest Annual Report and Accounts.
borrowing and security: acquisitions and disposals: capital expenditure over Governance a specified amount: amendments to the organisational structure of the Company UK Corporate Governance Code: FRC Guidance on Board Effectiveness and and Board: approval of significant changes to accounting policies: and approval Audit Committees: ICSA Guidance on Liability of non-executive directors: of management incentive schemes and Company policy on pensions.
Legal regulatory By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered and Memorandum for directors on their responsibilities and obligations approved during 2014 were: as directors.
the Companys strategy, business plan and annual budget: Insurance the Group KPIs for 2014: Full details of directors and officers liability cover.
suspension of the Companys share buy-back programme: the Companys 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and 2014 half-year accounts: the Companys 2013 Effectiveness of Internal Control Assessment Report: the Companys 2014 AGM circular: Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Corporate Governance statement continued The previously existing HSE Leadership Team has been disbanded with Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority responsibility for Group level HSE Corporate Responsibility CR leadership continued being undertaken by the SLT.
Day-to-day specific operational HSE CR issues will the appropriateness of the Group going concern sign-off for the 2013 be managed by the relevant department managers who in turn report to the MT.
full year accounts and 2014 half-year accounts: the Companys Risk Appetite Statement: Finally, the Company has also created an Exploration Leadership Team ELT the Companys strategy for seeking resolution of the Indian tax issue: which is chaired by the Director of Exploration and currently comprises the exploration drilling in Morocco and Senegal: Group Geoscience Manager, the Chief Geologist, the Chief Geophysicist, approval of Field Development Plan for the Catcher development in the three regional Exploration Managers and a representative from new ventures UK North Sea: new business.
the US$575 million Reserve Based Lending bank facility agreement: strategic entry into the Barents Sea and related planning and resourcing: The ELT meets every two weeks to facilitate alignment, consistency, best practice divestment of 10% in the Catcher development and adjacent acreage: and team work in the following areas: Kraken development FPSO and detailed engineering: and ensuring exploration, appraisal and new venture opportunities align with the participation in the Norwegian APA 2014 licensing round.
Companys Business Plan: ensuring consistent screening and ranking of exploration opportunities prior The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of authority to to detailed assessment, thereby utilising the significant knowledge and ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the distinction between experience of the ELT: financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated developing and implementing new geosciences technology and techniques to senior management.
where appropriate for application within the Company to reduce subsurface uncertainty and or risks: and Following changes made to the organisation structure of the Company during ensuring appropriate representation at resource assessment reviews and 2014 there were also a number of changes made to the senior management other internal subsurface peer reviews.
committee structure beneath Board level.
Board meetings The main change has been the creation of a Senior Leadership Team SLT During 2014, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with all of these which has replaced the Executive Team and which combines input from all meetings taking place over two consecutive days.
The Companys Board senior management.
The Executive Team previously comprised the executive meetings are held over two days to allow for a pre-Board discussion and Board directors in office prior to the AGM.
The new SLT comprises the Chief Executive, dinner on the first day followed by the Board and relevant committee meetings the CFO, the Chief Operating Officer COO, the Director of Exploration and on the second day.
The SLT is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets six times per year with those meetings scheduled in advance of All of the Board meetings during 2014 were held at the Companys registered Board meetings.
office in Edinburgh except for one meeting which was held at the Companys office in London.
Details of attendance at each of those Board meetings, and Key elements of the SLTs role include the following: at meetings of each of the Board committees, are set out below.
formulate strategy for finding, developing and producing oil and gas, to be approved by the Board: Given the level of operational activity undertaken by the Company during assess and review and amend as required the Business Plan in line the year, a number of other meetings took place to deal with specific matters with strategy: that required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific matter requires generate, consider and direct acquisitions and disposals: and consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that sets out when those determine the requirement for, objective and authors of, Board papers matters must be considered at a short-notice Board meeting and when they to ensure timely consideration and approval by the Board.
may be dealt with by a duly authorised committee of the Board.
The members of the SLT also form the RMC, which identifies and reviews Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings key business risks further information with regard to the role of the RMC is is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting contained in the internal control section of this statement on page 70 and 71. by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are used when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
The Management Team MT has continued in existence during 2014 but with a revised mandate to allow it to support the new SLT.
The MT currently comprises The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes nine members of the senior management team including the members of the presentations from senior management, is set by the Chairman in consultation SLT as well as the Deputy Finance Director and three functional managers with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Formal minutes of Human Resources HR Manager, Legal Manager and Health, Safety and all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the Environment HSE Manager.
The MT continues to be chaired by the COO next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
and meets formally six to nine times per year with four of those meetings In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between focusing on a quarterly performance review of the business.
meetings to progress the Groups business.
The key elements of the MTs role include the following: The non-executives have a practice of meeting informally before and after develop and implement a Business Plan, which will deliver the Companys each Board meeting without executive directors being present.
At these strategic objectives these will be reflected in annual KPIs, including HSE : non-executive forums, the non-executive directors are invited to bring forward critically assess and determine the mitigation plans for key business risks and any matter pertaining to the business of the Board that they believe would ensure that all risks are captured and reviewed regularly in the Companys benefit from discussion in such forum.
This practice also applies after Board risk register: committee meetings in particular the remuneration and audit committees co-ordinate operations and licence management along with resource to ensure that non-executive directors can discuss any relevant issues arising allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely and cost-effective from those meetings without executive management being present.
delivery against approved budgets: and review and approve other day-to-day business requirements, including Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSSE matters.
66 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Board and committee structure Cairn Energy PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk Management Committee Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings Board committees The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee, Board and Board committee meetings during 2014: a nomination committee and a governance committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee available on the Companys website.
Meetings held during 2014 6 5 6 5 4 The terms of reference for each of the Board committees satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the provision Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended attended that the Chairman should not be a member of the audit committee.
The Board decided in May 2014 that, notwithstanding this provision, it was appropriate for Executive Directors Ian Tyler to remain a member of the audit committee following his appointment Simon Thomson as Chairman in order to provide continuity given that Dr James Buckee was 3 3 Chief Executive 6 n a n a n a n a retiring from the committee at that time.
This has also allowed the committee 4 James Smith CFO 6 n a n a n a 3 to continue to benefit from Mr Tylers extensive financial experience.
Dr Mike Watts former 5 Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources to Deputy Chief Executive 2 n a n a n a n a enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Jann Brown Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the former Managing audit committee, where the Deputy Company Secretary undertakes this role.
5 6 Director & CFO 2 n a n a n a 2 The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Non-Executive Directors 7 7 Set out below are reports from each of the Board committees, with the exception Ian Tyler Chairman 6 4 5 3 2 of the audit committee report which, in line with best practice, is presented as Iain McLaren senior a separate report on pages 73 to 75 rather than including this in the corporate independent director 6 5 5 4 n a governance statement.
The remuneration committee section on page 68 covers Todd Hunt 6 n a 6 5 4 only the composition and role of the committee, with full details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments given in Alexander Berger 6 5 n a 5 4 the separate Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97, which has been Jackie Sheppard 6 n a 6 n a 4 prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations Sir Bill Gammell introduced in 2013.
8 former chairman 2 n a n a 2 1 Dr James Buckee 9 former director 2 2 4 n a n a Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
During 2014, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee and governance committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, they reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided their comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
Simon Thomson is not a member of the remuneration committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
Mr Thomson also attends part of each audit committee meeting by invitation.
James Smith is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown stepped down as executive directors on 15 May 2014.
The number of meetings they attended are stated up to and including that date.
Jann Brown was not a member of the audit committee but attended its meetings by invitation prior to stepping down as a director.
Ian Tyler was appointed a member of the nomination and governance committees on 15 May 2014.
The number of meetings he attended is stated from that date.
Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman on 15 May 2014.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director on 15 May 2014.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Corporate Governance statement continued Remuneration Committee Report Nomination Committee Report The members of the remuneration The members of the nomination committee during the year were committee during the year were as follows: as follows: Jackie Sheppard Chair : Ian Tyler appointed Chair with effect from 15 May 2014 : Todd Hunt: Iain McLaren: Iain McLaren: Todd Hunt: Ian Tyler: and Alexander Berger: Dr James Buckee retired as a director and member of the Simon Thomson: and committee on 15 May 2014.
Sir Bill Gammell stepped down as chair and member of the committee on 15 May 2014 : The remuneration committee met six times during 2014.
The Chief Executive The nomination committee met five times in 2014.
The Chairman and three of the Company is not a member of the committee but attends its meetings of the Companys non-executive directors are members of the committee.
The committees remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, In addition, to ensure continuing executive input on nomination matters, also attended some of the committees meetings.
None of the members of the Chief Executive is also a member of the committee.
the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The committee has The role of the nomination committee includes: established a practice of meeting informally without any executive directors or considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making advisers present after each committee meeting to allow the non-executives to recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of discuss any matter which has arisen in the meeting or relating to the duties of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing the committee which they believe would benefit from discussion in such forum.
directors: and facilitating an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members The role of the committee includes: of the Board are effectively discharging and devoting sufficient time to determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the their duties and responsibilities.
executive directors, the Chairman, and the Companys Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities PDMRs : The committee considers, on an ongoing basis, the balance of skills, experience, within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity remuneration package for each executive director: including gender, how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors determining the level of awards made under the Companys long-term relevant to the Boards effectiveness.
incentive plans and share option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: One of the main recommendations of the 2013 Board evaluation was to consider determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash the composition of the Board in light of the changes to the Board during the year.
bonus scheme: The committee has commenced a recruitment process with a view to appointing determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive up to two new non-executive directors during 2015 and has instructed external plans and exercise of share options: and recruitment consultants Ridgeway Partners to assist with this.
determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
68 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Diversity Governance Committee Report The nomination committee very much takes into account the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As a result of Jann Brown stepping down as an executive director of the Company, the number of women on the Board has reduced from two to one during 2014.
The Board does however remain diverse in terms of the range of nationality and international experience of its members.
The directors diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
Cairn aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its succession planning policy.
In seeking to achieve this aspiration the Company will not appoint an individual to the Board unless they are the best candidate for the role, whether male or female.
Beneath Board level, the Company is also seeking to develop and increase The members of the governance the number of women in senior management roles across the Group through committee during the year were a number of measures including succession planning, training and development, and flexible working policies which support diversity at Cairn.
The pipeline of as follows: younger talent within the Group is diverse and bodes well for the future.
Jackie Sheppard Chair : Succession planning Todd Hunt: The nomination committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition Alexander Berger: including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes Ian Tyler appointed a member of the committee with effect recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Board has satisfied itself that from 15 May 2014 : the committee has in place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board James Smith appointed a member of the committee with effect and senior management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate from 15 May 2014 : balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees.
Sir Bill Gammell stepped down as a member of the committee on 15 May 2014 : and The Board and the nomination committee have regularly discussed and reviewed Jann Brown stepped down as a member of the committee on Board composition and succession planning throughout 2014 and this will continue 15 May 2014. in 2015 in view of the Board changes which have taken effect during the year and the proposed appointment of up to two new non-executive directors.
The Board and the nomination committee are satisfied that the individuals The governance committee met four times in 2014 and is comprised of a majority currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have of non-executive directors.
In addition, to ensure continuing executive input the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
on governance matters, the CFO was appointed a member of the committee on 15 May 2014.
The role of the governance committee includes: reviewing and approving changes to the Boards corporate governance practices and policies: monitoring the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements: and reviewing developments in corporate governance generally and advising the Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance.
Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
The Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding electronic communication with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the Company.
Cairn responds promptly to correspondence from shareholders and its website contains a wide range of information on the Company, including a dedicated investor relations section.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with executive management after the announcement of the year-end and half-yearly results.
The Chairman is available to attend a number of these meetings.
The Board is kept informed of any issues raised by shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and through feedback at pre-Board meetings and following results or other significant announcements.
In addition, the Company maintains an investor relations database which details all meetings between the Company and its investors or other related stakeholders.
All analyst reports relating to the Company are also distributed to the Board.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Corporate Governance statement continued levels with the aim of safeguarding shareholders interests and Company Relations with shareholders continued assets.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the UK Corporate A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the Directors Report Governance Code and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of on page 60.
Following his appointment as Chairman in May 2014, Ian Tyler held failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not introductory meetings with a number of the Companys major shareholders at absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
which a broad range of matters were discussed.
The framework has been in place for the 2014 financial year and up to the date The Company recognises that the success of the comply-or-explain approach of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing and open review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2014 and dialogue with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating with will ensure that a similar review is performed in 2015.
In so doing, the Board shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which they wish took into account the assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect to discuss in relation to the Companys governance.
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Company.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in place and that Annual General Meeting AGM risks have been mitigated to a tolerable level across the Group in 2014.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all of the Companys directors to The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the attend the AGM.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal oil and gas exploration and production business and some of which relate to the reasons, in normal circumstances the chair of each of the Board committees will countries in which it conducts its activities see pages 34 to 41 of this Annual be available to attend the AGM and be prepared to answer questions.
Report and Accounts for more information on risks.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to Cairn seeks to create value through oil and gas exploration and production while give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys at the same time safeguarding the environment and respecting and contributing activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to the communities it is a part of.
In order to achieve this, Cairns core values of on 14 May 2015 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly are at the core of is contained in the shareholder circular posted with this Annual Report and the business, informing how the Company operates.
These values are promoted Accounts.
Further explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found to Cairns employees, partners and contractors.
Cairns licence to operate in the circular.
depends on transparent relationships and active stakeholder engagement programmes with our many stakeholders including governments, communities, The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be partners, shareholders and suppliers globally.
The directors believe that this counted before the AGM and the results will be made available following the commitment to strong governance generates trust and ensures consistent meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on each resolution.
Both the global standards and is critical to the Companys success.
Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM include a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular Particular attention has been placed by the Companys management during 2014 resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote on ensuring that an effective system of internal control has been maintained in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes during the year in relation to the key risks in the Companys business activities.
Enhancements have been made during 2014 to the following key controls, business processes and procedures: Information pursuant to the Takeover Directive a Standard Operating Manual of core business processes has been developed The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7.2.
6 which outlines the Cairn way for executing key processes.
The Manual will directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers be rolled out across the Group in Q1 2015: of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the the Companys Project Delivery Process was refreshed and rolled out to Company in the Directors Report.
the business: the suite of policies and procedures which form the Groups Corporate Going concern Responsibility Management System were developed or refreshed to The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on reflect current best practice or Group policy: going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate our Business Continuity Plan has been updated to reflect current business financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable impacts and recovery strategies.
A test of the Business Continuity Plan was future and have therefore continued to use the going concern basis in preparing completed in March 2014 with positive results: and the financial statements.
In concluding that the going concern assumption is an extensive lessons-learned project was executed which reviewed our appropriate, the Board and Audit Committee considered the Group cash flow drilling campaigns and identified areas for enhancement which are being forecasts under various scenarios, and concluded that the Group has sufficient implemented in future planning.
funding to meet its current commitments as and when they fall due.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes Internal control used by the Board during 2014 to review the effectiveness of the system and The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for the approach to be taken in 2015. regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control and Assurance Framework the framework, which plays a 1.
Strategic Direction critical role in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the The Companys strategy and business plan are proposed by the SLT and risks relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives are approved by the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the effectively controlled.
The framework is based on the Committee of Sponsoring Companys business and implementing the Companys strategy and overall Organisations COSO framework and its five key components, which is a commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and SLT.
The Chief commonly used and recognised framework for considering internal control Executive is also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board systems.
The COSO framework, which was first released in 1992 and updated and its committees and driving performance against the Companys KPIs.
in 2013, seeks to help organisations develop systems of internal control which help facilitate the achievement of business objectives and improvements in Company performance.
The framework also supports organisations in adapting to increasingly complex business environments and managing risks to acceptable 70 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2014 included 2.
Operating Management the following: The Company operates three regional units covering different countries and with the Group Risk Appetite statement was reviewed in light of changes to the various partners on both an operated and non-operated basis.
Supporting the business over the last year to ensure it was still aligned with the business strategy is a matrix organisation, where the assets are the principal focus, tasked strategy.
A series of risk tolerance levels across a number of categories with delivering objectives for their particular asset with functional departments were identified and agreed with the Board and senior management.
providing support to the assets in delivering their objectives.
the Companys internal auditor facilitated a Board risk identification workshop.
The purpose of the workshop was to utilise the collective Following organisational changes which were implemented during 2014 the knowledge of the Board to consider, in line with the strategy going forward, executive directors are supported by the new SLT as well as by the MT and ELT.
the principal risks to the achievement of the strategy objectives.
An analysis Further information on the composition of these teams and their remit can be against the Group Risk Register was then performed to ensure alignment.
found earlier in this statement on page 66.
There are also a number of functional department heads whose roles include providing expert input and challenge to The RMC reports on the Companys risk profile to both the audit committee the Companys work programmes, budgets and business plans: and supplying and the Board.
Additionally, the audit committee and the Board receive internal the directors with full and accurate information with which to make statements reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks.
The on the adequacy of internal control.
conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2014 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are effective.
A Business Plan with a five-year outlook and annual work programmes and budgets are prepared annually to help ensure the Company meets its strategy.
Assurance These start at asset level before being consolidated at regional and Company The three lines of defence framework adopted by the Board provides three levels.
The Business Plan sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset levels of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of all at the and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the Companys operational level: secondly through overview by functional management annual business plan.
After an iterative process, the Business Plan and budget and the RMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
are presented to the Board for approval.
The integrated internal control and assurance framework document includes The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement a description of the Companys business and assurance models and of its the business plan and to deliver the agreed work programmes within the organisation and committee structure, and defines responsibilities.
The approved budget and delegations of authority, and in accordance with the framework defines the key policies and procedures which govern the way in internal control framework.
which Cairn conducts its business and is therefore a core part of its system of internal control.
Cairns internal control and assurance framework document 3.
Risk Management was reviewed by external specialists in 2013 and an updated framework The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk management document was finalised and rolled out across the business in Q4 2013. strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring that the framework During 2014, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in controls, risk management and high-level internal control arrangements.
The relation to these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite Statement agreed Directors derived assurance from the following internal and external controls by the Board.
during 2014: a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision The Companys Business Risk Management System BRMS defines the processes by the Board: through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities: monitor the business risks faced by the Company.
The BRMS also identifies the an appropriate organisational structure: risk management organisational structure through which business risks are control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and Company levels.
representatives: The BRMS was updated in 2014 to cover enhancements to the process over the specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other last few years and to reflect organisational changes.
key technical and commercial decisions: segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective: Following the retirement of Jann Brown as Managing Director & CFO in May business and financial reporting, including KPIs: 2014, James Smith, CFO, took over the role of Chair of the RMC.
The RMC functional management reviews: currently comprises the executive directors and senior functional management.
an annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and functional The internal auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and nonaudits integration with the risk management process.
Regular MT risk meetings financial controls and their compliance with Company policies, and report any were also held to manage and facilitate the assessment and treatment of business control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of risks that may affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
weaknesses identified in the prior year: a letter of assurance from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy The RMC, which met four times during 2014, continues to focus on ensuring the of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting risk framework and strategies embedded in the organisation are fit for purpose.
of any control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in To supplement the role of the RMC, business risks, together with the mitigating respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year: measures and responsibilities, are identified and managed at an asset, country, an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit committee regional and departmental level.
Local level risk registers are used to capture, and Board and is driven by risks and key controls: assess, monitor and review risks before principal risks are consolidated into the reports from the audit committee and RMC: Companys Group risk register, which is regularly reviewed by the SLT, RMC and reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its MT to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there statutory audit: is an embedded risk management approach in place across the Company.
reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: independent third party reviews: and the skills and experience of all employees.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Corporate Governance statement continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout 2014, the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2012, except in the following areas: Provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation B.
1.1 the Board should state its reasons if Todd Hunt has served on the Board for more than The Company accepts that Mr Hunt is not it determines that a director is independent nine years since his initial appointment to the Board independent in terms of his length of service but the notwithstanding the existence of relationships in May 2003.
Board is of the view that he is independent in all other or circumstances which may appear relevant respects and has therefore agreed that he should to its determination, including if the director continue as a non-executive director for the time has served on the Board for more than nine being in order to retain his valuable technical skills and years from the date of their first election.
The Company recognises that Mr Hunt continues to sit on certain Board committees and as such the composition of those committees do not fully satisfy the Code provisions in relation to the number of independent non-executive directors on each of those committees.
In smaller companies the company The Chairman is a member of, but does not chair, The Companys recognises that the Code chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the the audit committee.
recommends that, except in smaller companies, audit committee in addition to the independent the Chairman should not be a member of the audit non-executive directors, provided he or she was committee.
Ian Tyler was not appointed Chairman considered independent on appointment.
of the committee until May 2014 and as such the Company complied with this provision prior to the 2014 AGM.
Following the 2014 AGM, in view of Dr James Buckees retirement from the audit committee and Ian Tylers considerable financial experience, the Company considers it appropriate that Mr Tyler continues to be a member of the audit committee.
72 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
