Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Simon Thomson James Smith Ian Tyler Todd Hunt Iain McLaren M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger Chief Executive 50 Chief Financial Officer 38 Non-Executive Chairman 54 Non-Executive Director 62 Non-Executive Director 64 Non-Executive Director 59 Non-Executive Director 49 Biography Simon Thomson was appointed Chief James Smith joined Cairn in March Ian Tyler was chief executive of Todd Hunt has 40 years experience in Iain McLaren has significant M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Jackie Alexander Berger is chief executive Executive in July 2011 having been 2014 from Rothschild where he was a Balfour Beatty plc from 2005 until the oil and gas industry.
He is president experience in the oil and gas sector.
Sheppard was previously executive officer of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. Legal and Commercial Director since director of the energy & power team March 2013.
During this time he took and joint owner of Atropos Exploration He is a chartered accountant and vice president, corporate and legal at a private Dutch exploration and 2006 and holding various posts across with 15 years experience advising E&P the company from being primarily a Company and Atropos Production was formerly senior partner for Talisman Energy Inc. a post she held production company based in the organisation including head of companies, oil majors and national oil UK construction business, to a global Company based in Dallas, Texas.
Simon originally joined Cairn companies on their M&A transactions infrastructure services business.
She holds a BA from the Memorial degree in Petroleum Engineering from in 1995 and holds an LLB Hons from and equity and debt market financing.
Ian graduated with a first class degree University of Newfoundland, BA and Delft University and an MBA from Aberdeen University and a Diploma in During his investment banking career, in Commerce from Birmingham MA in Jurisprudence from Oxford Rotterdam School of Management.
Legal Practice from Glasgow University.
James was a long-standing adviser to University.
He then qualified as a University and LLB from McGill Cairn on every major transaction and chartered accountant with Arthur University.
Jackie was admitted to financing from the IPO of Cairn India Andersen in 1987.
Ian subsequently the Law Society of Alberta Canada until he joined the Company.
James held a number of senior finance in 1982 and was appointed Queens holds a BA Hons from the University and operational positions within Counsel for the Province of Alberta of Oxford.
Term of Office Simon was appointed to the Board James was appointed to the Board in Ian was appointed as an independent Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an independent Jackie was appointed as an Alexander was appointed as an in November 2006 as Legal and May 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
non-executive director in June 2013 independent non-executive director non-executive director in July 2008. independent non-executive independent non-executive Commercial Director and became and became non-executive Chairman in May 2003.
However, given his director in May 2010. director in May 2010.
Chief Executive in July 2011. in May 2014. length of tenure he can no longer technically be considered to be an independent non-executive director in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes No Yes Yes Yes External Appointments Simon is a non-executive director of Ian is non-executive chairman Todd is president and joint owner of Iain is chairman of Investors Capital Jackie is non-executive chairperson Alexander is chief executive officer Grahams The Family Dairy Limited of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, Atropos Exploration Company and Trust plc and a non-executive director of Emera Inc. a public Canada-based of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. and and a member of the advisory Board a non-executive director and Atropos Production Company.
of Afren plc, Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon international energy generation, a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie of the Winning Scotland Foundation.
chairman of the audit committee of plc, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and transportation and distribution UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau Cable & Wireless Communications Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities company.
She is also a director of the Energy Petroleum Limited.
plc, a non-executive director of BAE plc.
He is also a past president of the general partner of Pacific NorthWest Systems plc and non-executive Institute of Chartered Accountants LNG LP, which was formed for the chairman of Bovis Homes Group Plc.
purpose of constructing, owning and operating an LNG facility in British Colombia.
She is a founder of two upstream oil and gas companies and is the lead director and chair of the audit committee of one of those companies, Black Swan Energy Inc. a Canadabased private equity financed company.
Jackie is also the former chairperson of the Research and Development Corporation of Newfoundland and Labrador, a Crown Corporation.
Committee Membership Simon chairs the Senior Leadership James chairs the Risk Management Ian chairs the nomination committee Todd is a member of the remuneration Iain chairs the audit committee and is a Jackie chairs both the Alexander is a member of Team.
He is a member of the Committee and is a member of the and is a member of the audit committee, committee, the nomination committee member of the nomination committee remuneration committee and the audit committee, the nomination committee and attends Senior Leadership Team.
He is a the governance committee and the and the governance committee.
nomination committee and meetings of the remuneration member of the governance committee remuneration committee.
committee by invitation and part and attends meetings of the audit of each audit committee meeting committee by invitation.
58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Non-Executive Directors Todd Hunt Iain McLaren M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger Non-Executive Director 62 Non-Executive Director 64 Non-Executive Director 59 Non-Executive Director 49 Todd Hunt has 40 years experience in Iain McLaren has significant M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Jackie Alexander Berger is chief executive the oil and gas industry.
Sheppard was previously executive officer of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. and joint owner of Atropos Exploration He is a chartered accountant and vice president, corporate and legal at a private Dutch exploration and Company and Atropos Production was formerly senior partner for Talisman Energy Inc. a post she held production company based in Company based in Dallas, Texas.
Alexander holds a masters She holds a BA from the Memorial degree in Petroleum Engineering from University of Newfoundland, BA and Delft University and an MBA from MA in Jurisprudence from Oxford Rotterdam School of Management.
University and LLB from McGill University.
Jackie was admitted to the Law Society of Alberta Canada in 1982 and was appointed Queens Counsel for the Province of Alberta in 2008.
Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an independent Jackie was appointed as an Alexander was appointed as an independent non-executive director non-executive director in July 2008. independent non-executive independent non-executive in May 2003.
However, given his director in May 2010. director in May 2010. length of tenure he can no longer technically be considered to be an independent non-executive director in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
No Yes Yes Yes Todd is president and joint owner of Iain is chairman of Investors Capital Jackie is non-executive chairperson Alexander is chief executive officer Atropos Exploration Company and Trust plc and a non-executive director of Emera Inc. a public Canada-based of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. and Atropos Production Company.
of Afren plc, Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon international energy generation, a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie plc, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and transportation and distribution UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities company.
He is also a past president of the general partner of Pacific NorthWest Institute of Chartered Accountants LNG LP, which was formed for the of Scotland.
Todd is a member of the remuneration Iain chairs the audit committee and is a Jackie chairs both the Alexander is a member of committee, the nomination committee member of the nomination committee remuneration committee and the audit committee, the and the governance committee.
nomination committee and the governance committee.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
