Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Audit Committee report The members of the committee have been chosen to provide the wide range Dear shareholder of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties.
In addition, both Ian Tyler and I have Chartered Accountant qualifications as well as recent and relevant financial experience.
Throughout 2014, our activities continued to focus on the integrity of Main activities of the committee during the year The audit committee met five times in 2014, with meetings arranged around the financial reporting of the Group and the key external reporting dates.
Meetings in January and March focused on the appropriateness of internal controls.
the 2013 year-end external audit process reported in the 2013 Annual Report, in June and August on half-year reporting: and a December meeting on planning We continue to evolve our activities for the 2014 year-end cycle and external audit process.
and our reporting to you in light of At each meeting the committee receives an updated report from the external guidance from regulators and emerging auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a forthcoming audit best practice.
In the current year, or review, or contains the conclusions from that audit or review.
The audit committee also monitors the Internal Audit process, approving the annual we have enhanced our reporting on internal audit plan, tracking the progress of internal audits and reviewing their our assessment of the effectiveness output and recommendations.
Other business covered by the committee includes the approval of corporate assumptions and re-approval of the Groups of the external audit process.
policy on non-audit services and the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
Subsequent to the year-end a further meeting was held in March 2015 to conclude on the During the year under review, I served as Chair of the audit 2014 audit and significant issues.
committee alongside three of my fellow non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
At our request, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
Other relevant people from the The members of the committee who served with me during the business are also invited to attend certain meetings to give us the necessary year were: insight into their own areas of business, for example in relation to the reporting of Ian Tyler: oil and gas reserves.
In addition, these meetings were attended by both internal Alexander Berger: and and external auditors.
Dr James Buckee retired as a director and member of the committee on 15 May 2014.
The external auditors receive copies of all relevant audit committee papers and minutes of all audit committee meetings.
In addition, I regularly meet with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group.
Responsibilities The Terms of Reference of the committee take into account the requirements of the Code and are available for inspection on the Groups website.
These include: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems and oversight of the Groups risk management committee: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: overseeing the Groups relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and engagement for non-audit services, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and reviewing the Groups whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Audit Committee report continued 2014 year-end and significant accounting issues Key accounting issue Recurring issues Non-recurring issues Impairment testing Impairment testing on Cairn India Limited tax issue Sale of 10% interest in Catcher Recognition on oil and gas assets goodwill components of deferred corporate assumptions.
of Cash Generating Unit tax assets CGU and consistency with asset impairment tests Background With the fall in oil prices Goodwill is tested Cairn is subject to enquiries regarding In September 2014, Cairn The approval of through Q4 of 2014, the noted annually for impairment on certain group reorganisation transactions announced the sale of a 10% the Catcher FDP in that the Groups exploration 31 December, regardless carried out in 2006, as a result of the working interest in Catcher.
June confirms the and appraisal assets would of whether indicators exist retrospective tax legislation introduced in The deal completed in eligibility to certain be tested for impairment.
Goodwill is tested 2012 and is therefore currently restricted January 2015. tax allowances and against the carrying value from selling its shares in CIL and CIL are creates additional UK of assets and liabilities in restricted from remitting dividends to tax trading losses.
Audit Committee action The audit committee The inclusion of assets and The audit committee discussed with the The sale of our 10% interest The approval of the review the group corporate liabilities in the CGU both Companys tax and legal advisers and in Catcher had several impacts FDP triggered the assumptions proposed by in determining the carrying management whether the Company in the financial statements.
The committee value of the unit and its should make any tax provision in relation The valuation of Catcher field allowances and discussed and agreed the use recoverable amount is closely to the transactions subject to Indian implied in the sale was used tax losses in the of short-term and long-term monitored by the audit Income Tax Department enquiries.
In as its fair value for the Groups deferred assumptions and challenged committee.
Specifically, addition the audit committee discussed purposes of impairment tax calculations.
management on the we challenged management with management and the auditors the test.
The audit committee The audit committee appropriateness of these on the inclusion of deferred accounting implications of the restriction challenged management on challenged assumptions.
This included tax assets and liabilities in in the context of the IFRS definition of the appropriateness of this fair management, a review of the benchmarking the CGU and the consistency a restriction on sale to satisfy ourselves value given changing market ensuring that the exercise that management of this approach with that the restriction did not lead to an conditions.
We also considered deferred tax assets had performed and the impairment tests conducted impairment of the financial asset and whether the share of the asset recognised were guidance offered by the on the individual assets related dividend income nor did it require to be sold should be classified reflective of their external auditors.
a provision for tax to be recognised in the as held-for-sale at the Balance probable future financial statements.
Audit Committee conclusions The audit committee After reviewing the The Audit Committee agreed with the After challenge of both We were satisfied concluded that the use impairment tests prepared recommendations of management and the management and auditors we that after challenging of a short-term oil price by management and the Groups advisers and the opinion of the agreed that it was appropriate management the assumption based on assumptions around auditors that there was no requirement to base the fair value of Catcher increase in the the forward curve was deferred taxation and after to make a tax provision in respect of on the sale and were satisfied deferred tax asset appropriate.
After challenge, taking account of the views the transactions subject to Income Tax that the disclosures made was reasonable.
the audit committee also of the Groups auditors, the Department of India enquiries and the in the financial statements determined that the Groups audit committee approved restriction on sale does not lead to an were appropriate.
long-term price assumption managements proposals on impairment of the asset or a tax provision.
Following guidance from our should remain unchanged.
auditors, the 10% interest is not disclosed as held-for-sale.
Further details in Financial Statements See Section 2.
See section 2.5 See section 3.1 See sections 2.1 and 2.3 See section 4.6 Going Concern At each reporting date management consider the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern see Corporate Governance section on page 70.
The audit committee review and challenge managements conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that managements assessment has been considered and challenged where appropriate.
Given the ongoing restriction on the sale of the shareholding in Cairn India Limited and the committed levels of expenditure on exploration and development projects, the audit committee carefully reviewed managements going concern conclusion based on the Groups latest net cash position and the forecast spend in the period ending 31 March 2016.
This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its work programme and firm commitments.
The audit committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
External audit The current edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Cairn not only adopted this policy but decided to comply with this provision early and completed an external audit re-tendering process in 2013.
 LLP PwC were subsequently appointed as external auditor of the Group, on our recommendation.
The 2014 year-end audit therefore represents the second year of PwCs tenure as Group auditor.
74 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Assessment of external audit process The committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
This comprises of: A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the auditors and The Committee agreed with the level of materiality set by the auditors.
the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas of audit focus summarised in the Independent Auditors Report on page 98.
A review of the Audit Quality Inspection AQI Report published by the Financial There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern for the Reporting Council with particular emphasis on those key messages applicable to Cairn.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement and the The audit committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues identified.
reasoning behind the conclusions reached.
The committee were satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made of management and that the audit process was robust.
A review of the management letter produced by the auditors and the weighting The management letter was discussed at the August Audit Committee meeting, given to points raised indicating the understanding of the auditor of matters with the Committee noting the actions taken by management.
The Committee were encouraged by the points that were raised by the Auditors and the wider of significance to the Group.
impact that they have on the business.
Regular communications through formal papers submitted and presentations The Audit plan for the year ending 31 December 2014 was presented to the to the committee and meetings between myself as Chair of the Audit Committee Audit Committee in June 2014 and is summarised in the Independent Auditors and the lead audit engagement partner.
A formal questionnaire issued to all Audit Committee members and senior Cairn No matters of significance have been reported to the Audit Committee.
management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of the auditors people and service.
Of particular focus for the Committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, identifying the risks to the financial statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement to the committee.
The audit committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be presented.
The final audit report was presented to the audit committee in March 2015.
After thorough discussion the committee agreed with the conclusions that the auditors had reached noting the significant areas of judgement.
Auditor independence and provision of non-audit services We have a long established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Group will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Group and cost.
These advisers may include the Groups external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, Cairn must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
The Groups current policy for approval of non-audit services was reviewed and re-approved by the Audit Committee in December 2014.
No changes were made to the existing policy, full details of which can be found on the Groups website.
During the year, PwC provided other services including accounting advice in relation to the tax dispute in India, advice in relation to contracts tax in Republic of Ireland and providing a working capital report on a shareholder circular.
A full breakdown of remuneration paid to the Groups external auditor in respect of both audit and non-audit work is provided in Appendix 4 to the Financial Statements.
Internal Audit Following a competitive tender process, Ernst & Young LLP EY were appointed as the Groups internal auditor with effect from July 2013.
Prior to the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audits, the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control refer to page 70, the results of historical audits of fundamental business processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The plan is then presented to the audit committee for review and approval.
The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the group risk management committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the group risk management committee on the internal audit work plan.
The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend all committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meet separately with the internal auditors to discuss areas of common focus in developing the audit plan.
Whistleblowing and Related Policies The Group updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2012 and the new policy was reviewed by the audit committee and subsequently rolled out across the organisation.
The committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed by the committee in December 2014 and re-approved with no changes considered necessary.
The Group has in place a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption Management System and Code of Business Ethics and training has been provided to all staff in relation to these.
As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is continued.
Further information regarding these policies can be found on the Groups website.
Iain McLaren Chair of the Audit Committee Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 9 March 2015
