CORPORATE GOVERNANCE management teams and Quilter Cheviot the last of which completed in February 2015 : the IPO of our US institutional asset management business on the New York Stock Exchange in October: Nedbanks exercise of its subscription rights to acquire 20% of Ecobank Transnational Inc. : Old Mutual Emerging Markets continuing search for new opportunities in the Rest of Africa: and disposals of a number of Skandias legacy businesses in continental Europe, including those in Poland, Germany and Austria.
During 2014, in line with one of the action points emerging from last years Board effectiveness review, each of the non-executive directors was tasked to become more closely acquainted with one of the Groups main businesses and encouraged to attend its board and management meetings and briefings in order to improve insight and understanding at Board level.
This has I am pleased to introduce this Corporate Old Mutual continues already begun to demonstrate its value Governance report in which, among other and we plan to continue it into the future.
to view good corporate things, we describe the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, A fuller account of the Boards activities is governance as a vital explain how the Board and its main standing included in the following pages.
ingredient in operating committees have operated during the past Annual General Meeting AGM year, and describe how effective stewardship a successful business.
Our AGM will be held in London on 14 May is exercised over the Groups activities in the 2015.
As usual, it will be webcast via our interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Patrick OSullivan website and there will be an opportunity Chairman Board for shareholders to submit questions Since last years report, we have recruited two beforehand to be dealt with at the meeting.
new executive directors to the Board: Ingrid Our shareholder circular relating to the Johnson, who replaced Philip Broadley as AGM includes further details.
Group Finance Director, and Paul Hanratty, Old Mutual continues to view good corporate who joined the Board as Chief Operating governance as a vital ingredient in operating Officer.
Both of these appointments took effect a successful business, while also providing in July 2014 and were in line with our continuing assurance to shareholders, customers and objective of having a Board with the diversity regulators that the Groups businesses are of skills, experience, gender and geographical properly managed and controlled.
background appropriate to the Groups current and developing business profile.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman We have also announced the appointment of Vassi Naidoo as a new non-executive director.
He will join the Board on 1 May 2015, ahead of replacing Reuel Khoza as Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited and Nedbank Limited on 11 May 2015.
Board focus during 2014 During 2014, the Board again devoted a significant amount of time to discussing future Major acquisitions and disposals strategic opportunities for the Group in the Future strategic positioning UK, Africa and elsewhere.
Board meetings and development were held in Nairobi in January and in Cape Group Finance Director succession Town in December.
Areas of particular Board Board training on aspects of Solvency II focus this year included Old Mutual Wealths Monitoring of Group culture and progress in creating a leading UK retail investors views of the Company.
investment business through its acquisitions of Intrinsic Financial Services, various asset 72 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance of its separately-listed and regulated status, We aim to take a What is the which sits alongside that agreement.
holistic approach to Companys approach The Groups major South African public governance, with a to governance?
subsidiary companies are subject to applicable local governance expectations, including those We aim to take a holistic approach to proactive and effective contained in King III and, for Nedbank, the JSEs governance, with a proactive and effective Board providing the listings requirements.
In addition, given that the Board providing the framework for addressing Group has two domestically systematically the Groups long-term sustainability.
framework for important financial institutions Old Mutual As the Companys primary listing known in addressing the Groups Emerging Markets and Nedbank we are the UK as a premium listing is on the London actively considering how we may need to adapt long-term sustainability.
Stock Exchange, this report mainly addresses the future governance of our South African the matters covered by the UK Corporate operations as South Africa migrates to a Twin Governance Code 2012, but the Company Peaks regulation model similar to the UKs.
also has appropriate regard to governance OM Asset Management plc OMAM, the expectations in other territories where its Groups US institutional asset manager, is shares are listed.
The text of the UK Corporate now separately listed on the New York Stock Governance Code 2012 is available on the Exchange NYSE.
It is therefore subject to Financial Reporting Councils website at the rules of the US Securities and Exchange www.
Commission, the NYSE listing rules and other The governance relationship with the Groups requirements applicable to US publicly-listed majority-owned subsidiary, Nedbank Group entities, including those of the Sarbanes-Oxley Limited Nedbank, recognises the latters own Act of 2002.
OMAM has adopted policies and governance framework as a separately-listed governance principles that are closely aligned entity on the JSE Limited and the fact that it has with those set out in the Group Operating Model.
The Company has a In addition, as part of the arrangements leading relationship agreement with Nedbank that up to its separate listing, OMAM entered into a sets out the Companys requirements and shareholders agreement with Old Mutual plc expectations as its majority shareholder.
The text and OM Group UK Limited giving the Group of that relationship agreement is available on the various rights with respect to the management Companys website.
Nedbank has also adopted and conduct of OMAMs affairs.
A copy of this the Group Operating Model described below, agreement is available on the Companys website.
subject to certain waivers in acknowledgement Objectives of our Group Operating Model GOM Our GOM is based on a strategic To take due account of the regulatory regulated and have a majority of independent controller model steered from our requirement that boards of regulated directors.
The major subsidiaries also have their Head Office.
Its objectives are: entities maintain proper controls over own Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
the affairs of their respective businesses To establish clear principles of delegation The major businesses hold quarterly business and escalation designed to provide To protect the interests of the Groups reviews with the Company, to monitor their appropriate levels of assurance about various stakeholders, including its performance and prospects against a wide the control environment, while retaining shareholders, creditors, policyholders spectrum of criteria.
These arrangements sit flexibility for our businesses to and customers.
alongside the submission of detailed monthly operate efficiently financial reports and communication of risk How the GOM operates To set out a clear and comprehensive and internal audit information through each Under the GOM and the arrangements with governance framework with appropriate of the latters functional lines.
Nedbank and OMAM mentioned above, the procedures, systems and controls Company appoints up to three members of The GOM also incorporates the three lines facilitating the satisfactory discharge of the senior Group executive management as of defence principles, assigning roles and duties and obligations of regulated firms, non-executive directors on the boards of its responsibilities under three categories: directors and employees within the Group major subsidiaries to ensure transparent acceptors of risk, overseers of the risks being To articulate clearly what Old Mutual plc communication of information in both taken, and independent reviewers and as shareholder expects from business unit directions.
The boards of Old Mutual Wealth, reporters of risk.
boards when exercising their powers as set Nedbank Group Limited and Old Mutual out in their respective constitutions Emerging Markets are independently Old Mutual plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Nationality of Board members Has the Company complied with the Who serves on the UK Corporate Governance Code?
Board and how does Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and in the preparation of this Annual it operate?
Report and Accounts, the Company has Old Mutuals Board currently has 13 members, complied with the main and supporting three of whom are executive and 10 of whom principles and provisions set out in the UK including the Chairman are non-executive.
Corporate Governance Code 2012 applicable The following changes to the Boards to that period, as described in more detail in membership took place during 2014: the following sections of this report.
Certain changes to the Code applicable to years Zoe Cruz and Adiba Ighodaro joined beginning on or after 1 October 2014 will the Board as non-executive directors African 38% be addressed in next years Corporate on 6 January 2014 UK & Europe 54% Governance report.
Bongani Nqwababa ceased to be a US 8% non-executive director on 6 January 2014 The Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, Paul Hanratty joined the Board as Tenure of the non-executive and the statement relating to the going Chief Operating Officer on 1 July 2014 directors including concern basis adopted in preparing the Ingrid Johnson joined the Board as the Chairman financial statements set out at the end of this Group Finance Director on 1 July 2014 at 31 December 2014 section of this Report, have been reviewed Philip Broadley, the former Group Finance by the Companys auditors, KPMG LLP, in Director, ceased to be a director on accordance with guidance published by the 31 August 2014.
The table below sets out the Boards continuing membership in more detail and in order of original appointment.
12 months 18% 1-2 years 27% 2-3 years 9% The Boards current membership 3-6 years 37% Current term Date of original Date current as director, 6 years 9% Name and appointment term ends, where Role nationality to the Board where applicable applicable Note: In the first chart above, Paul Hanratty is treated as Zimbabwean.
Group Chief Executive Julian Roberts British August 2000 Non-executive director Reuel Khoza SA January 2006 May 2015 3rd final year 1 Non-executive director Mike Arnold British Sept 2009 September 2015 2nd 1 Chairman Patrick OSullivan Irish January 2010 January 2016 2nd 1 Non-executive director Roger Marshall British August 2010 August 2016 2nd 1 Senior Independent Alan Gillespie British November November 2016 2nd Director 2010 2 Non-executive director Nonkululeko March 2012 March 2015 1st Nyembezi-Heita SA Non-executive director Danuta Gray British March 2013 March 2016 1st Non-executive director Nkosana Moyo Zim Sept 2013 September 2016 1st Non-executive director Zoe Cruz US January 2014 January 2017 1st Non-executive director Adiba Ighodaro British January 2014 January 2017 1st Chief Operating Officer Paul Hanratty Zim Irish July 2014 Group Finance Director Ingrid Johnson SA July 2014 1 See also the Board succession plan details on page 88 below 2 Extended in February 2015, for a further three years, to March 2018 74 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance For a description of how people are selected stewardship of the Group, the Group Chief The Boards role is to to join the Board, see the Report from the Executive is supported by the Group Executive exercise stewardship of Nomination Committee later in this report.
Committee, a consultative management committee whose current members are the Company within a What is the Boards role and how described elsewhere in this Annual Report.
framework of prudent The Board has also delegated specific The Boards role is to exercise stewardship of responsibilities to Board committees, as and effective controls the Company within a framework of prudent described in more detail under the heading and effective controls that enables risk to be that enables risk to be What are the standing Board Committees assessed and managed.
The Board sets the and what did they do during 2014?
later in assessed and managed.
Companys strategic aims, based on this report.
recommendations made by the Group Chief Executive, reviews whether the necessary In addition to its interaction with the three financial and human resources are in place for executive directors, the Board interacts with it to meet its objectives, and monitors the other senior executive management management performance.
It is kept informed including the most senior executives of the about major developments affecting the Groups main business units through their Group through the Group Chief Executives periodic participation in Board meetings, and Group Finances monthly reports and other briefing sessions, and Board visits to holds regular sessions to discuss high-level the Groups main business centres.
The Group Operating also receives minutes of the proceedings of Model identifies the matters that are specifically the Group Executive Committee, to help keep reserved for Board decision and protocols it informed about the discussions taking place governing escalation of issues to it and between the Group Chief Executive and the delegation of powers from it, to ensure clear heads of the Groups main businesses and of allocation of responsibility for decision-making.
Group central functions such as Risk, Strategy, Responsible Business and Human Resources.
In accordance with the Group Operating Model, the Board has delegated its executive The executive element of the Board is powers to the Group Chief Executive, with balanced by an independent group of power to sub-delegate, and also to the non-executive directors.
The Board as a whole Approvals Committee.
In his co-ordination and approves the strategic direction of the Group, Board and Committees Board Committees Executive Committees Group Audit Committee Group Executive Committee Monitors the integrity of the Groups Supports the Group Chief Executive as a senior financial statements.
Group Executive Risk Committee Oversees risk from an executive perspective.
The Board Board Risk Committee Sets the Companys strategic aims, Oversees the current and emerging reviews whether the necessary risk environment affecting the Group.
financial and human resources are in place for it to meet its Group Capital Management Committee objectives, and monitors Reviews and approves major capital expenditure.
Nomination Committee Manages Board and senior executive appointments and Responsible Business Committee succession plans.
Oversees the Groups profile and initiatives in the area of Responsible Business.
Remuneration Committee Oversees executive director and Approvals Committee senior management remuneration.
Provides approvals for matters delegated to it by the Board.
Old Mutual plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Key roles and responsibilities scrutinises managements performance Board and executive responsibility for running against agreed goals and objectives, and the Companys business.
Further details of the Chairman monitors performance reporting.
Procedures respective roles and responsibilities of our Leading the Board are in place to help Board members satisfy Chairman and Group Chief Executive are set Ensuring the Boards effectiveness and themselves about the integrity of the Groups out in the boxes on the left of this page.
setting its agenda financial information and to ensure that Other than in exceptional circumstances, Ensuring that the directors receive financial controls and systems of risk non-executive directors including the accurate, timely and clear information, management are robust and sustainable.
Chairman serve a maximum of nine years in and adequate time is available for Separately from the formal Board meeting office.
This maximum period consists of two discussion of all agenda items schedule, the Chairman meets with the three-year terms, followed by up to three Ensuring effective communication non-executive directors, with no executives further one-year terms.
Renewal of nonwith shareholders present, to provide a forum where any issues executive directors engagements for successive Promoting a culture of openness can be raised.
He also conducts an annual terms is not automatic and the continued and debate one-to-one performance evaluation of each suitability of each non-executive director is Ensuring constructive relationships of the non-executive directors, and any assessed by the Nomination Committee before between the executive and resulting action points are reported to the their appointment is renewed.
The Company also facilitates informal meetings among the non-executive directors, Group Chief Executive without the Chairman or any executive present.
Defining, creating and implementing These meetings include the annual review of strategy and objectives the Chairmans own performance led by the Developing manageable goals Senior Independent Director, who also obtains and priorities whatever input he considers appropriate from Leading and motivating the the executive directors and the facilitator of the management teams Board effectiveness review.
Developing proposals to present to The assignment of responsibilities between the the Board on all areas reserved for Chairman Patrick OSullivan and the Group its judgement Chief Executive Julian Roberts is documented Developing Group policies for to ensure a clear division between running the approval by the Board and ensuring their implementation Promoting the Groups culture.
What was the directors attendance record during 2014?
The table below sets out the number of meetings held and individual directors attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees based on membership of those committees, rather than attendance as an invitee during 2014.
Board scheduled Group Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nomination Attendance record and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 12 7 9 8 10 Mike Arnold 11 12 7 7 9 9 Zoe Cruz 12 12 8 9 8 8 Alan Gillespie 11 12 8 8 10 10 Danuta Gray 11 12 3 4 8 8 10 10 Paul Hanratty 7 7 Adiba Ighodaro 11 12 7 7 Ingrid Johnson 7 7 Reuel Khoza 11 12 5 9 9 10 Roger Marshall 12 12 7 7 9 9 7 8 Nkosana Moyo 10 12 6 7 7 8 Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita 10 12 8 9 9 10 Patrick OSullivan 12 12 10 10 Julian Roberts 12 12 8 8 Former director Philip Broadley 7 7 76 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance What did the Board do during 2014?
around the Group, and reports from Board The Chairmans introduction to this report committee chairmen, the following table sets describes some of the main matters that the out the Boards other activities at its principal Board addressed during the year.
In addition scheduled meetings during the year.
to those and to the regular updates that the Board received on the Groups results, the Group Chief Executives report on recent significant developments and major projects Board meetings in 2014 Date of meeting Location Principal topics covered January Nairobi Presentation on the economic environment and Presentation on possible strategic actions and opportunities for the Group in East Africa their effects on Group cash, including discussion see also the separate feature on this meeting at about the potential IPO of the Groups US the top of the next page institutional asset management business Pre year-end review of results and the Annual Annual review and clearance of directors Report and Accounts for 2013 conflicts of interest.
February London Presentation by the Chief Executive of Old Mutual Approval of the preliminary results for 2013 Wealth on the Old Mutual Wealth business and Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and its plans to become a leading verticallythe Responsible Business Report for 2013 integrated UK retail wealth manager Recommendation of the final dividend for 2013 Update on strategic projects Feedback by the Senior Independent Director Feedback from the annual independent survey of from his annual review of the Chairman.
investors views on the Group May London Presentation by the Nedbank Group Chief Update on preparations for the IPO of the Groups Executive on Nedbank, including discussion of its US institutional asset management business subscription rights in Ecobank Transnational Inc. Approval to renew the Companys 800 million Approval for Old Mutual Emerging Markets to revolving credit facility increase its stake in Old Mutual Finance Approval of the Q1 Interim Management Statement.
July Offsite, UK Discussion of various topics relevant to the Presentation and discussion on the possible Groups future strategy and vision acquisition by Old Mutual Wealth of Quilter Cheviot Presentation by the Chief Risk Officer on the Groups draft Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Discussion of Group governance arrangements.
August London Update on various strategic projects Briefings by Group HR on the latest executive talent review and results of the Group culture Approval of the interim results for 2014 survey for 2014.
Declaration of an interim dividend September London Update on plans for the IPO of the Groups US Presentation on Group capital.
institutional asset management business and on various other strategic initiatives November London and by Approval of the Q3 Interim Management Update on strategic opportunities in the telephone Statement Rest of Africa.
December OMEMs and Nedbanks Presentations by Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Update on strategic projects, and presentations premises in Cape Town Old Mutual Investment Group, Nedbank and the by internal and external speakers on various Property & Casualty business unit on their topics identified at the Boards offsite strategy respective business and strategy plans for session in July 20152017 Discussion of governance structures for the Briefings on the economic outlook for South Groups South African businesses in the context Africa and the Groups cash and capital position of the migration of South African regulatory oversight to a Twin Peaks model Review of the draft Group business plan for 20152017 Annual review of Board Committee memberships.
Old Mutual plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Board continues to Board visit to Nairobi review the progress During their visit to Nairobi in January 2014, On the evening of 30 January, the Board members of the Board received presentations joined management of Old Mutuals made by the Group in and participated in discussions on: businesses in Kenya at a social event expanding in the Rest attended by local politicians, regulators, The macro-economic outlook for Kenya customers and media representatives, which of Africa.
and the neighbouring region, as described provided a very useful opportunity to meet by a local investment expert and interact with them.
Kenya Vision 2030, presented by a We were grateful to SafariCom, Heineken, local academic Uchumi and the Nairobi Stock Exchange, Progress made by the Group in the Rest of whose management kindly met with teams Africa and Kenya in particular, along with from the Board to provide more detailed further opportunities for the future, as insight into various aspects of doing business described by the Head of Africa and in Kenya.
local management from the Groups Kenyan operations.
Are the non-executive directors Are directors required to hold shares independent?
in the Company and what are their Of the nine current non-executive directors, current interests?
excluding the Chairman, the Board considers The Remuneration Committee has established eight to be independent within the criteria set guidelines on shareholdings by executive out in the UK Corporate Governance Code: directors of the Company.
Under these, the that is, they are independent in character and Group Chief Executive is expected to build up judgement and have no relationships or a holding of shares in the Company equal in circumstances which are likely to affect their value to at least 200% of his annual base salary judgement, or could appear to affect it.
These within five years of appointment.
For other eight are: Mike Arnold, Zoe Cruz, Alan executive directors the requirement is 150% of Gillespie, Danuta Gray, Adiba Ighodaro, annual base salary within five years of Roger Marshall, Nkosana Moyo and appointment.
Julian Roberts and Paul Hanratty Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita.
both have shareholdings in excess of these requirements, while Ingrid Johnson, having only The other non-executive director, Reuel Khoza, recently joined the Company from Nedbank, is not considered independent for two reasons.
has not yet begun to build up her shareholding.
He chairs the Groups majority-owned subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, and there The Board has considered adopting a are business relationships between Nedbank shareholding requirement for non-executive and Aka Capital, in which he owns a stake.
directors, but does not believe a formal In May 2015, he will be succeeded by Vassi requirement is appropriate.
Instead, it decided Naidoo, the incoming Chairman of Nedbank during 2014 to encourage non-executive Group Limited.
The Board has determined that directors to build up holdings equal to 50% of it will also be appropriate to classify Vassi their annual base fees within 12 months after Naidoo as non-independent for governance appointment and to increase this over time to purposes in view of his role at Nedbank.
100% of their annual base fees.
The target for the Chairman was set at 50% of his annual base Who is the Senior Independent fee, to be achieved over time.
has arranged through its UK share registrar, Alan Gillespie has been the Senior Equiniti, to facilitate periodic purchases of Independent Director since May 2011.
The shares in the Company on behalf of eligible Senior Independent Director is available to non-executive directors out of their net fees: shareholders if they have concerns that are two of them are currently using this facility.
unresolved after contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Group Chief Details of directors interests including interests Executive or Group Finance Director or where of their connected persons in the share capital such contact would not be appropriate.
The of the Company and its quoted subsidiaries, Senior Independent Directors contact details Nedbank Group Limited and OM Asset can be obtained from the Group Company Management plc, at the beginning and end Secretary: martin.
of 2014 are set out in the table at the foot of 78 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance this page.
The interests of the executive The executive directors are permitted to hold Leadership and directors in share options and forfeitable and retain, for their own benefit, fees from one effectiveness shares awards are described in the section external non-Group non-executive of the Directors Remuneration Report entitled directorship of another listed company but not What is the Companys approach to Directors shareholdings and share interests.
a chairmanship, subject to prior clearance by ensuring diversity?
There were no changes to any of the interests the Board and provided the directorship We recognise that success in delivering the between 31 December 2014 and concerned is not in conflict or potential conflict Groups strategy depends on ensuring a 27 February 2015. with any of the Groups businesses.
None of suitable talent pipeline throughout the Group the executive directors currently holds any and maintaining effective HR practices to How are directors conflicts of interest external non-executive directorships of other attract, retain and develop appropriately skilled managed?
employees, senior managers and executives.
Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of interest to be disclosed and for Has the Company granted indemnities Each business is required to develop an directors to avoid participation in any to its directors?
environment that promotes the benefits of decisions where they may have any such In accordance with the Companys Articles equal opportunities and diversity, reflecting conflict or potential conflict.
The Nomination of Association, each director is granted an the diversity of the markets in which we Committee considers other significant indemnity by the Company in respect of operate.
Selection of both Board members commitments or external interests of potential liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to and employees is based on objective criteria appointees as part of the selection process the extent permitted by UK law.
The Company to ensure that we have the correct mix of skills, and discloses them to the Board when has entered into formal deeds of indemnity in experience and knowledge to reflect the recommending an appointment.
Nonfavour of each of the directors.
A specimen customers and communities we serve and aim executive directors are required to inform the copy of the indemnities is available in the to serve.
Recruitment, promotion, selection for Board of any subsequent changes to such Corporate Governance section of the training and other aspects of employee commitments, which must be pre-cleared with Companys website.
management are free from discrimination the Chairman if material.
including on grounds of gender, race, The indemnities described above were in force disability, age, marital status, sexual The Companys procedures for dealing with throughout 2014 and have remained so up to orientation and religious belief.
For our directors conflicts of interest continued to the date of this report.
In respect of those business units in South Africa, these operate effectively during 2014 and no liabilities for which directors may not be imperatives have to be balanced against their director had a material interest in any indemnified, the Company maintains directors Black Economic Empowerment requirements.
significant contract with the Company or any and officers liability insurance.
of its subsidiaries during the year.
Additional details of various non-material transactions between the directors and the Group are reported on an aggregated basis, along with other transactions by senior managers of the Group, in Note H3 to the financial statements.
Directors interests At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013 OM Asset Old Mutual plc Nedbank Group Management plc Old Mutual plc Nedbank Group ordinary shares Limited shares shares ordinary shares Limited shares Mike Arnold 26,475 11,134 Zoe Cruz Alan Gillespie 13,000 Danuta Gray 14,175 1 Paul Hanratty 824,547 Adiba Ighodaro 2 Ingrid Johnson 22,913 Reuel Khoza 3,566 14,774 14,774 Roger Marshall 45,000 45,000 Nkosana Moyo 10,000 10,000 Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita 3,566 Patrick OSullivan 100,000 91,319 1 1 Julian Roberts 2,014,303 1,965,397 Former director Philip Broadley 1 resigned 31 August 2014 513,434 1 These figures do not include rights to forfeitable shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Directors Remuneration Report 2 These shares are currently held under the terms of the Nedbank Compulsory Bonus Share Scheme and the Nedbank Voluntary Bonus Scheme Old Mutual plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued In addition, we aim to maintain an inclusive How do we ensure that Board members We recognise that culture that is sensitive to employees needs.
have the right knowledge to discharge success in delivering We make appropriate adjustments for their duties?
disabled employees as required, and The composition of and succession plans for the Groups strategy endeavour to provide training and career the Board are formally considered at least depends on ensuring a development opportunities for all.
We have developed a skills and examples of these principles in action can industry experience matrix to help the Board suitable talent pipeline be found in the Meet our People section assess the composition profiles of the Group throughout the Group of our website.
Similarly the Nomination Committee discusses talent and and maintaining effective The changes to the Board during 2014 mean succession plans for the Group and business that we remain comfortably ahead of our HR practices to attract, unit Executive Committees twice a year.
diversity target of three female members by retain and develop the end of 2015.
With the appointments of Zoe At Company level, each new Board member is Cruz and Adiba Ighodaro in January 2014 required to complete a structured induction appropriately skilled and of Ingrid Johnson in July 2014, female programme, which involves a commitment to employees, senior membership of our Board has risen to 38% spend additional time on familiarising five out of 13.
We also now have 27% female themselves with the Group during their first managers and executives.
membership of the Group Executive year.
The induction programme has been Committee, with the appointments of Ingrid revised this year and includes the role and Johnson and Gail Klintworth during the year.
expectations of a non-executive director, Group strategy and business unit awareness, More generally, we remain committed to business performance and financial improving our diversity and continue to strive management, governance and compliance, towards the targets for 2018 that we set in and audit.
Each new member also completes a 2013 see the diagrams below.
Initiatives to behavioural and psychometric assessment to address these targets are described in our provide awareness of their interpersonal Responsible Business Report.
preferences and how these relate to the rest of the Board.
This feedback is available to the Chairman, to help him ensure that all members can participate fully in Board discussions.
Group Board gender split Group Executive Committee gender split Female 5 38% Female 3 27% Male 8 62% Male 8 73% 2018 Target 30% female 2018 Target 30% female 1 Key roles gender split Gender split of permanent staff across the Group Female 19 17% Female 33,569 58% Male 94 83% Male 23,866 42% 2018 Target 30% female At 31 December 2014 1 T op 113 positions around the Group, at 31 December 2014 80 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Induction of new non-executive Training sessions for the Board in 2014 Alignment of non-executive directors to directors focused principally on how the introduction of a business unit to develop knowledge of Solvency II was likely to impact on the Group.
the business units risks and issues and its The Company has a structured and executive capability How is the performance of the Board comprehensive induction programme for Engagement of Board Intelligence to review and its committees reviewed?
new non-executive directors, which is and provide recommendations on how Performance reviews of the Board and its designed to enable new appointees to the Board information flows and Board standing committees are conducted annually.
Board to familiarise themselves with the agendas might best be structured.
They are carried out by an external expert at Groups operations, financial affairs and least every three years in line with the UK The formal Board effectiveness review for strategic position so that they can make an Corporate Governance Code.
2014 was conducted through an external effective contribution as soon as possible facilitator, Helen Pitcher of Advanced Board after they have joined the Board.
Under its current Chairman, the Board has Excellence.
Advanced Board Excellence is invested a significant amount of effort in This programme includes sessions with independent of the Company and has no understanding its effectiveness through both the heads of each of the Groups major other relationship with the Group.
Given the internally and externally facilitated reviews.
businesses, functional heads and the review findings and focus areas over the past The table below shows the history of such Companys auditors and external three years, the recent changes in Board reviews since 2009. legal advisers.
composition and the review work already Actions taken during 2014 as a result of the undertaken, this years evaluation focused on: 2013 Board effectiveness review included: Achieving effective outcomes and Board Establishment of a special purpose dynamics, with particular emphasis on the Governance Review Committee to consider quality of the Boards discussions and governance interaction and the assignment decision-making and how the Board of responsibilities between Old Mutual plcs works together Board and the principal subsidiary boards, Use of time and the Boards focus with particular focus on the Groups South Effectiveness assessments of the individual African operations.
After reporting its directors, including evaluation of their recommendations to the Board, the maintenance and development of Governance Review Committees knowledge of the financial services responsibilities were assumed by the industry and the Groups businesses.
Nomination Committee later in the year History of Board effectiveness reviews 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Agreed effectiveness improvements and Board development facilitated both internally and externally Led by KornFerry Detailed questionnaire Led by Helen Pitcher of Detailed questionnaire Board profile updated Board Governance supplemented by IDDAS, and including supplemented by and discussions took Review internally led 1:1 interviews a Governance and 1:1 interviews place with IDDAS on with external input Compliance Report the 2012 review findings and Board Dynamics IDDAS compared the Board profile updated Review findings from this to Board Risk Committee by Helen Pitcher of 2011 outputs and effectiveness review Advanced Board Board profile commented on where Excellence and reviewed and shared progress had been reviewed with Board culture survey achieved the Chairman Short questionnaire Board Intelligence focused on progress reviewed and made against the action plan recommendations for and Board Values.
improvements to Board Supplemented by information packs 1:1 interviews Full Board effectiveness review led by External facilitation Helen Pitcher of Advanced Board Internal facilitation Excellence Internal and external facilitation Old Mutual plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The review for 2014 included thorough The Board has invested one-to-one interviews with each Board a significant amount of member and others who regularly interact with the Board and its standing committees.
effort in understanding The results were collated and reported back its effectiveness through to the Board in February 2015. both internally and externally The externally facilitated review concluded that: facilitated reviews.
The Board and its committees had operated satisfactorily during the year, with a generally appropriate mix of skills represented on each of them and good levels of information and discussion, well led by their respective chairmen Areas for future development included a desire for more focus on succession planning, resolving the future governance structure for the Groups South African businesses, and continuing to refine and sharpen the communication of Board information.
In line with recommendations arising from the 2014 review, the Nomination Committee will in future be known as the Nomination and Governance Committee, with a correspondingly wider remit.
Focus areas in 2014 arising from the previous years Board effectiveness review Governance and oversight Vision and business unit insights Board time allocation Conduct a review of Group governance Develop a shared understanding and Review Board and Board agreement about the vision for the committee agendas: Establish closer links to boards of Group over the next five years major subsidiaries.
a Ensure balance of time Increase knowledge of business units: is appropriate against Group priorities a Chairmen of the Boards standing b Ensure adequate time at Board committees to get to know their meetings for committee chairmen counterparts on subsidiary to report to the full Board committees better and involve c Arrange, as opportunities allow, themselves more in the major issues meetings between non-executive being dealt with at that level directors at Group and major b Other non-executive directors to subsidiary levels.
spend some time outside Board meetings concentrating on a particular business to understand it better Improve induction processes for new non-executive directors to include business orientation and stakeholder connections.
82 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Roger Marshall 2010 to January 2014, Nkosana The Board has a number What are the Boards Moyo 2013 to January 2014, Julian Roberts of important standing standing committees 2008 to November 2014 committees which assist it and what did they do Secretary to the committee: Martin Murray since 1999 in discharging its duties.
Remuneration Committee The Board has a number of important standing For details of the Remuneration Committee, see committees to which various matters are the Directors Remuneration Report.
delegated in line with their terms of reference.
After the significant changes to Board committee Vassi Naidoo, who will be joining the Companys memberships at the start of 2014, as described in Board as a non-executive director when he last years Corporate Governance report, no replaces Reuel Khoza as Chairman of Nedbank further changes were made as a result of the in May 2015, will also succeed to the formers annual review of such memberships that took memberships of the Board Risk and Nomination place towards the end of 2014.
Julian Roberts Committees at that time.
had already stepped down as a member of the Other committees Nomination Committee during the year in order The Board establishes special purpose to ensure that its members comprised a majority committees as required, to deal with particular of independent non-executive directors, in line strategic projects or other matters.
In doing so, it with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
specifies a remit, quorum and appropriate mix of executive and non-executive participation.
Current memberships of the Boards During 2014, these included a committee to main standing committees are as follows: oversee the detailed implementation of the IPO Group Audit Committee of the Groups US institutional asset management Roger Marshall Chairman since 2010 business on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mike Arnold since 2009 A number of standing executive committees help Adiba Ighodaro since January 2014 the Group Chief Executive with the day-to-day Nkosana Moyo since January 2014 management of the Group.
These include the Other members of the committee during the Group Executive Committee mentioned earlier in year: Bongani Nqwababa 2007 to January this report: the Group Executive Risk Committee, 2014, Alan Gillespie 2010 to January 2014, whose responsibilities are described in the Risk Danuta Gray 2013 to May 2014 and Capital Management report earlier in this document: and the Group Capital Management Secretary to the committee: Martin Murray Committee, whose role is, among other things, to since 1999 agree capital allocations within certain limits or Board Risk Committee make recommendations to the Board regarding Mike Arnold Chairman since 2010 any allocations beyond such limits and to Zoe Cruz since January 2014 approve the Groups capital plan as part of the Reuel Khoza since 2010 annual business planning process.
Roger Marshall since 2010 The Company also operates a Responsible Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita since 2013 Business Committee, which monitors progress Other members of the committee during the against the Groups commitment to responsible year: Philip Broadley 2010 to January 2014, business principles and addresses matters that Nkosana Moyo 2013 to January 2014 could impact on the Groups reputation or licence to operate.
For more details on this Secretary to the committee: Colin Campbell committees remit, see the Responsible Business since 2012 Report for 2014 on the Companys website.
Nomination Committee Reports from the Boards Patrick OSullivan Chairman since 2010 standing committees Alan Gillespie since 2010 The following reports on the activities of the Danuta Gray since 2013 Group Audit, Board Risk and Nomination Reuel Khoza since 2010 Committees during 2014 have been submitted by Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita since 2013 their respective Chairmen.
The activities of the Other members of the committee during the Remuneration Committee are described in the year: Mike Arnold 2010 to January 2014, Directors Remuneration Report later in Bongani Nqwababa 2010 to January 2014, this document.
Old Mutual plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Report from the Group Audit Committee Roger Marshall The Group Audit Committee met seven times Chairman of the Group Audit Committee during 2014.
Two meetings were held partly as joint sessions with members of the Board Risk Committee to discuss matters of mutual interest.
Set out below is a summary of areas of focus during the year, in addition to the committees usual oversight responsibilities, which are described in the table on page 86.
Audit Committee focus area How the matter was reviewed Assumptions related to policyholder The Group Chief Actuary confirmed that Explicit discretionary reserves recognised by liabilities recognised by the Groups appropriate valuation models had been used to Old Mutual South Africa OMSA were discussed.
insurance businesses determine the value of policyholder liabilities.
Particular focus was placed on the methodology This included the presentation of results from and assumptions used to create the Investment The Group recognised insurance experience and assumption validation reviews.
In Guarantee Reserve, which is a significant portion policyholder liabilities of 10,519m at areas where significant assumption changes were of the explicit discretionary margins that relate 31 December 2014 2013: 12,126m.
proposed, the rationale for these changes was to amounts due to policyholders under Estimation of these routinely involves explained to the committee.
The committee reviewed assessment of risk exposures, expense the composition of and rationale for holding allocations and business persistency.
There was a focus on persistency and mortality these reserves, which continue to be less than 2% assumption changes proposed for the South of OMSAs total policyholder liabilities.
African long-term business, with specific emphasis on the changes in mortality assumptions relating to HIV in the Mass Foundation business.
Tax provisions and uncertainties related The committee received reports from Group and number of issues remain under discussion with the to open tax assessments local tax departments to assist it with its tax authorities, and these items received specific consideration of existing tax positions in the focus.
The complexity of the Old Mutual Group context of identified exposures, focusing on areas means that it pays tax in a wide range of The committee concluded that management had where there were material issues under discussion geographies across a diverse product set.
applied sufficient rigour in the analysis of the level between the Group and tax authorities.
This In addition, the tax assessment process in of provisions required and satisfied itself with the included reviewing the merits of the respective some countries means that tax adequacy of the disclosures that had been made positions taken on these and reflecting on external computations can remain open for a in respect of these items.
professional advice obtained by management to number of years after filing.
support the views taken by the Group.
The relevant disclosures are set out under The Group holds provisions of 200m Contingent liabilities in Note H4 to the financial There are a number of open tax computations in 2013: 202m to cater for these uncertainties.
Progress was made during 2014 in closing outstanding computations: however, a Loan loss provisions The committee considered management Local governance structures provide assurance information related to specific areas such as on the adequacy of loan loss provisioning and Loan loss provisioning requires the unsecured lending in Nedbank and Old Mutual key matters arising were routinely highlighted in assessment of recoverable amounts, Finance and Nedbanks large exposure discussions with local Audit Committee chairmen.
which requires judgement in the watchlists.
It also received updates on estimation of future payments.
improvements to the provisioning methodology in Old Mutual Finance.
At 31 December 2014, the Groups total advances were 35,588m, with related Management presented an assessment of the provisions of 731m 2013: 34,240m and compliance of the provisioning methodologies 657m.
Loans outstanding are principally with accounting standards.
Trends and peer from Nedbank.
analysis of credit collection and loan loss ratios were considered.
84 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit Committee focus area continued How the matter was reviewed Goodwill and other intangible assets A detailed paper was presented at the Wealth and Old Mutual Emerging committees meeting in November 2014 outlining Markets businesses.
Developing models to support the the forecasts used for determining cash flows, the carrying value of goodwill and other A more detailed review of the carrying value of basis of the assumptions used including any intangible assets requires judgement in the goodwill and other intangibles relating to changes from previous years, headroom setting assumptions, such as discount and Old Mutual Wealth was performed because of available and the sensitivity of the impairmentgrowth rates and in determining the the significance of balances recognised of testing results to changes in assumptions.
1,197m at 31 December 2014 2013: 1,461m The committee validated the underlying and the recent changes in the composition of At 31 December 2014, the Group assumptions through its discussion of the analysis the business.
recognised 2,763m in relation to these presented.
In view of business closures, assets 2013: 2,835m.
The committee concluded that the projected acquisitions and disposals, there was also specific future cash flows from all the businesses discussion of the appropriateness of the Cash supported the current carrying value of goodwill Generating Units applied by the Old Mutual and intangible assets.
How our audit tender was conducted Alternative profit measure The Group Audit Committee recommended The Group makes a number of adjustments to that the Board retain KPMG as the Groups Invitations to tender were issued to six IFRS profit to derive an Adjusted Operating external auditors from 2016 onwards, subject international audit firms, three of whom Profit AOP measure.
This is common practice to the usual annual shareholder approval of including the incumbent, KPMG opted to amongst peers.
Some of these eliminate IFRS their re-appointment at forthcoming AGMs.
All of the valuations that introduce distorting results, The Board duly accepted this recommendation.
participating firms submitted such as recognising gains or losses on own We believe that the audit tender further details comprehensive local proposals of a very debt or the removal of profits and losses on of which are set out in the box on the left of this high standard to local review committees.
Other adjustments seek page was a worthwhile exercise, and the Feedback from the local review process to adjust the IFRS result in order to arrive at Group expects to achieve a number of was then submitted to the Group Audit more normalised profit by, for example, improvements to our audit service as a result.
Committee before final presentations were substituting a Long-Term Investment Return for made to it.
In evaluating the three tendering the actual investment returns for the year, and External auditor effectiveness firms, the primary focus was on audit adjusting the IFRS finance cost so that it reflects During the year, the Groups Internal Audit quality, giving specific consideration to: the certain costs of financing otherwise function conducted the annual review of recognised in equity.
The committee reviews KPMGs effectiveness as our current auditors Audit approach and delivery the appropriateness of the AOP measure on and confirmed satisfaction with the quality of Audit firm capability and understanding an ongoing basis.
It also reviews the Longthe audit.
The review analysed critical of the Groups business Term Investment Return rate annually.
The competencies expected of our external Audit engagement team quality committee seeks to validate that the auditors and included feedback from key Insight into future developments likely to adjustments made in determining AOP are finance personnel from Group and subsidiary affect the Groups business appropriate to the objective of presenting a entities and Audit Committee members at measure of the long-term profitability of the Reputation, culture and firms subsidiaries and Group level.
This review was business to users of the financial statements.
and individuals quality of past performed during the first quarter of 2014 and working experience was independent of the audit tender described Audit tender outcome above.
The outcome underpins our Independence.
Last year, we indicated our intention to carry recommendation to re-appoint KPMG in out a tender for the Groups external audit The tender process was completed during relation to the audit for the year ending during 2014.
The decision to run the tender the third quarter of 2014.
The Group Audit 31 December 2015 at the AGM in May.
process in 2014 was influenced by the Committees decision to recommend to the requirement under UK Competition Commission Board the retention of KPMG was taken rules to tender the engagement by 2016.
In after a roundtable discussion with addition, recent European Parliament guidance representatives from each of the Groups will require the rotation of the Groups external major businesses.
The committee also auditors by no later than 2023.
By running the sought input from the Board Risk tender in 2014, we ensured that any new Committee before making its final appointee would have had time to take the recommendation to the Board.
necessary preparatory steps to achieve independence and allow for an orderly transition from the incumbent, KPMG.
Old Mutual plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Report from the Group Audit Committee continued Internal Audit effectiveness Primary responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee I described in last years report the results of Financial and capital reporting an external review of the Groups Internal Audit function and certain initiatives that this Monitor the integrity of the Groups Review the content of the Annual Report and had prompted.
The actions identified have financial statements and review the critical Accounts and interim results and advise the been implemented during 2014. accounting policies Board on whether, taken as a whole, the In May 2014, the Head of Group Internal Annual Report is fair, balanced and Review and challenge, where necessary, the Audit left the Company to take up an understandable critical accounting estimates and judgements of opportunity elsewhere.
The Head of Internal management in relation to the interim and Determine whether any training or education Audit for South Africa assumed this role on an annual financial statements sessions are required by the committee on specific issues.
interim basis until Martin OMalley joined the Company as the Head of Group Internal Audit in February 2015.
External audit The Groups Internal Audit Charter remains unchanged from last year and is available on Make recommendations concerning the Approve the annual audit plan, to ensure that it the Companys website.
appointment, re-appointment and removal of is consistent with the scope of the audit the external auditors engagement and coordinated with the activities Non-audit services of the Groups Internal Audit function Be responsible for the Groups audit The Group operates within a clearly defined tender process Review the findings of audits with the external policy with regard to the nature and amount of auditors, considering managements Oversee the relationship with the external non-audit services that can be provided by the responsiveness to the auditors findings auditors, including the terms of engagement Groups external auditors see Who are the and recommendations including remuneration and their Group Auditors and how much are they paid?
effectiveness, independence and objectivity Monitor the effectiveness of the external audit later in this report.
The policy itself is formally by a formal annual assessment and also the Agree the policy for and provision of results of any reviews published by the Financial reviewed on an annual basis and, in 2014, we non-audit services Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review.
opted for the first time to limit the quantum of Agree the policy on the employment of former fees for non-audit services to a maximum of employees of the external auditors 25% of the total fee for external audit services.
Review the qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditors and the The Chairman of the Group Audit Committee effectiveness of the audit process is notified of expenditure on non-audit services on a monthly basis and for certain services he will be consulted for pre-approval.
The Group Internal Audit Audit Committee reviews compliance with the non-audit services policy on a quarterly basis.
Monitor the effectiveness of the Groups Consider the major findings of any significant Internal Audit function and the Internal internal audit, and managements response The committee is satisfied that KPMG have Audit programme Approve the appointment or removal of the been engaged in accordance with the Review the adequacy of Group Internal Audits Head of Group Internal Audit.
requirements of this policy during 2014. resources, its audit programme and its standing within the Group Internal control and risk management Review the effectiveness of systems for internal Consider the major findings of any internal control, financial reporting and risk management investigations into control weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements response.
Liaise with other business unit audit committees and ensure all relevant issues are communicated to the committee Whistleblowing Review arrangements by which staff may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
86 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Report from the Board Risk Committee During 2014, the Board Risk Committee In addition to its regular meetings, the continued to promote and oversee the committee held a half-day workshop focusing strengthening of the Groups risk management on the Solvency II Directives impact on the and risk culture.
Groups capital and strategy, and several deep-dive sessions to consider risk issues The committee met nine times during the year.
affecting specific business units in more detail.
Five meetings were additional to the four Between the scheduled meetings, I also originally scheduled.
One of the additional received updates through my regular meetings meetings, and part of one of the scheduled with the Chief Risk Officer and the Group meetings, were held jointly with the Group Chief Actuary.
The Chief Risk Officer attended each meeting.
The Group Chief In connection with the finalisation of the Actuary and the Head of Group Internal Audit Groups annual results, the committee Mike Arnold were invited to attend all the meetings and produced a report setting out conclusions Chairman of the Board Risk Committee each attended the majority of the meetings.
drawn from the risk and control indicators The external auditors were invited to attend all used across the Group to help the of the meetings.
Remuneration Committee in its deliberations.
The committee received a report from the The committee also reviewed its performance Chief Risk Officer on risk and regulatory against its revised terms of reference, which matters at each of its scheduled meetings were adopted following the 2013 review of the during 2014, in which any changes to the committees effectiveness.
We found that the Groups risk profile were identified and committee complied with the vast majority of discussed.
We also reviewed the risk appetite the requirements of the terms of reference, metrics operated by the Group.
and put plans in place to comply with the remaining items.
In addition, we focused on: During 2014, either Roger Marshall or I The Groups Own Risk and Solvency personally attended meetings of the risk and Assessment ORSA, under which the Group audit committees of each of the major identifies and assesses its risks and subsidiaries of the Group, and we have determines the resources necessary to ongoing dialogue with the independent ensure that its solvency needs are met directors who chair those subsidiaries sufficiently to achieve its business strategy.
I shall continue to attend these The committee reviewed and considered the meetings in 2015 in order to remain close to ORSA before it was approved by the Board any major risk issues that may arise during the Assessments of the Groups capital and coming year.
solvency position In 2015, in addition to the regular items on the Proposed acquisitions and other strategic committee agenda, the committee will projects being undertaken by the Group, continue to focus on the Groups preparations including the acquisitions of Intrinsic for the implementation of Solvency II and on Financial Services, Quilter Cheviot and the the development of the Groups risk and stake in UAP in Kenya, and the IPO of OM control culture, as well as continuing with its Asset Management plc programme of deep-dive sessions into The content and continued suitability of the individual business units.
Groups suite of risk policies and standards Key areas of focus during 2014 and of the Group Operating Model The risk and control culture of the Group Reviewing the risk appetite metrics and its business units operated by the Group Regulatory risks arising as a result of business Overseeing the risk and control culture activities, in particular the Groups regulatory of the Group environment and compliance status.
Monitoring current and emerging risks affecting the Group Supervising the Groups suite of risk policies and standards Considering developments in the regulatory environment and their implications for the Group.
Old Mutual plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Report from the Nomination Committee Our role as the Nomination Committee is to considered six internal candidates alongside a review and make recommendations to the list of possible external candidates produced Board on the appointment of directors, the by our retained advisers, Odgers Berndtson.
structure of the Board and membership of the The committee was satisfied with the Boards main standing committees.
We also independence of Odgers Berndtson as search review development and succession plans for consultants, as they did not carry out any other the Groups most senior executive work for members of the Group during the management and certain appointments to the year.
After a thorough interview, review and boards and standing committees of principal evaluation process and consultation with the subsidiaries in line with the Group Operating Groups regulators, Ingrid Johnson, former Model.
We receive twice-yearly updates on Group Managing Executive: Retail and the composition of principal subsidiary Business Banking at Nedbank, was selected Patrick OSullivan boards, which include details of the skills as the new Group Finance Director.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee represented on such boards and the The committee also decided to appoint Paul subsidiary companies own succession plans.
Hanratty to the Board in July 2014.
He had This enables us to ensure that these bodies been a regular attendee at Board meetings remain equipped to meet the Groups needs.
over the preceding 18 months in his capacity The Nomination Committee considers the as Group Operating Officer, during which current Board composition suitable for the time the Board and members of the committee Groups business requirements.
However, had had a good opportunity to appraise him.
such matters are kept under active review, He was redesignated as Chief Operating considering scheduled retirements of Officer on his appointment.
non-executive directors and the Groups In anticipation of Reuel Khozas planned future strategy.
retirement as Chairman of Nedbank in May In planning for refreshing and renewing the 2015, Nedbank established a Chairmans Boards composition, we aim to ensure that Selection Committee during 2014 to identify changes take place without undue disruption potential suitable candidates.
Julian Roberts, and that there is an appropriate balance of our Group Chief Executive, was a member of experience and length of service see also the this special purpose committee.
Five of our box below left.
We also ensure that our directors interviewed Vassi Naidoo, the process for identifying and recommending candidate eventually recommended to be candidates as Board directors is formal, appointed as Reuel Khozas successor, and the rigorous and transparent.
Vacancies generally Board accepted the Nomination Committees arise in the context of either planned renewal recommendation that he should also be invited of the Board, replacing directors who are due to join the Old Mutual Board, in similar fashion to retire, or adjusting the Boards balance of to previous Nedbank Chairmen.
In making this knowledge, skills, independence or diversity.
recommendation, the committee noted the In identifying candidates and making benefit to Nedbank of Vassi Naidoos recommendations, we pay appropriate extensive experience of banking and financial regard to the independence of candidates, services and of operating businesses in Africa their ability to meet the expected time and that his position on the Companys own commitment involved and their suitability and Board would provide additional insight into Board Chairman and Committee willingness to serve on Board committees.
these important areas of the Groups business.
Chairman succession planning In prior years, our focus, as far as the Board Julian Roberts stepped down as a member With a view to ensuring an orderly transition, was concerned, was on renewing and of the committee during the year, in response our current succession plans are for: addressing diversity among the non-executive to a view among some of the Companys US directors, as long-standing non-executive shareholders that it is preferable for a Chief Myself as Board Chairman and Mike directors came up to retirement or left the Executive not to be a member of a Nomination Arnold as Chairman of the Board Risk Board because of other business commitments.
Committee and also to ensure a suitable Committee to retire at the AGM in During 2014, we spent more of our time balance of independence in the membership May 2017 dealing with changes to the executive of the committee.
Roger Marshall as Chairman of the component of the Board.
In addition to our work described above, we Group Audit Committee and Alan We dealt first with succession planning for the continued to monitor talent management and Gillespie as Senior Independent Director Group Finance Director, after Philip Broadley diversity initiatives, and progress against to retire at the AGM in May 2018 advised that he planned to leave the action items identified as part of the 2013 Danuta Gray as Chairman of the Company.
Reflecting the strong cadre of Board effectiveness review.
Remuneration Committee to retire at the internal candidates already identified in our AGM in May 2019. succession-planning arrangements, we 88 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance We extended the geographical reach of our for interaction with shareholders.
Matters How does the Company investor targeting in 2014, visiting Singapore raised in these governance-focused meetings conduct its investor and Hong Kong to meet with debt and equity during 2014 included Group strategy, investors, including those who specialise in regulatory developments, remuneration, relations?
We expect to build on this succession planning and cyber security.
We continue to make significant efforts to in 2015.
The table below shows the five-year The IR team updates the Board on issues educate the public markets and to communicate record of work to improve the Groups arising from communications with the openly with retail shareholders, institutional relationship with buy-side analysts and investment community.
It also regularly debt and equity investors and sell-side analysts investors around the world.
commissions independent surveys to inform by means of a proactive Investor Relations IR During 2014, we held IR meetings with the Board about how major investors see the programme, run by a small dedicated IR team investors in the UK, South Africa, North Companys management and performance.
based in London and South Africa.
The team America, Canada and continental Europe, works closely with the media relations, Our intranet provides employees with easy involving 262 individual institutions.
Most Responsible Business and public affairs teams access to key information about the Group, meetings involved the Group Chief Executive, around the Group.
Old Mutuals investor base including about its culture, vision, strategy and the Group Finance Director or another is very diverse in terms of both investor style financial performance.
Regular senior member of the senior management team.
We and geographic location and the Group has management roadshows provide employees held regular sessions for senior management almost 400,000 retail shareholders.
with further opportunities to understand more to meet sell-side analysts in both Europe and about the aims of the Group.
Our objective is to facilitate communication South Africa, and expect that the new Group with the global investment community and to Finance Director will continue to build on her keep investors updated on the Groups What are the existing relationships in 2015. performance.
During 2014, we continued to arrangements for Copies of all investor presentations and, where maintain a dialogue with investors and sell-side appropriate, transcripts are posted on the analysts, through briefings and educational Annual General Companys website so that they are accessible support, to give them a better understanding Meetings AGMs ?
of the Groups operations, with particular The Board uses the AGM, held at the focus on the Groups corporate development.
Currently 17 sell-side analysts from Europe Companys head office in London in May each and South Africa actively publish research on We increased our communication and year, to comment on the Groups first quarters the Company.
We encourage sell-side analysts engagement with the investment community trading performance.
Shareholders also have to cover the Company giving investors their during the year, attending 14 investment the opportunity to ask the Board questions.
opinions on the Groups valuation, its conferences in the US, Europe and South Africa.
The AGM is webcast and a record of the performance and the business environment In addition, we conducted investor proceedings is also made available on the in which it operates and also to make presentations in London, Cape Town and Companys website shortly after the end of the meaningful comparisons with our peers.
All formal business items at the AGM During 2014, one new UK-based research in Cape Town, we used webcast technology are conducted on a poll, rather than by a show analyst initiated coverage on our stock, and to host follow-up events on Emerging Markets of hands.
The Companys share registrars we expect more global investment banks and two presentations on Old Mutual Wealth.
ensure that all properly submitted proxy votes and brokerages to begin sell-side coverage We intend to continue using technology to are counted, and a senior member of the UK in 2015. facilitate more effective communication and registrars staff acts as scrutineer to ensure that will be exploring ways of using it to enhance votes cast are correctly received and recorded.
The Chairman makes contact with major both interim and full-year results presentations investors and meets them as required.
Senior Independent Director is also available Total number of investor relations events and executive attendees 295 284 273 265 252 225 208 203 197 152 Our objective is to facilitate communication with the global investment community and to keep 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 investors updated on the Total number of events Total with executives Groups performance.
Old Mutual plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Each substantially separate issue at the AGM at 27 February 2015 was 562,970,361.49 What is the Companys is dealt with by a separate resolution and the divided into 4,925,990,663 ordinary shares of 3 issued share capital and business of the meeting always includes a 11 7p each.
The total number of voting rights resolution on the receipt and adoption of the at that date was also 4,925,990,663. who are the Companys Report and Accounts.
The chairmen of the Between 31 December 2014 and 27 February largest shareholders?
Group Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration and 2015, there have been no new notifications of Nomination Committees are available at the The Companys issued share capital at disclosable interests by shareholders and no AGM to answer any questions on the matters 31 December 2014 was 560,756,596.46 notifications of changes to the interests set out covered by their committees.
divided into 4,906,620,219 ordinary shares of in the table at the foot of this page.
3 11 7p each 2013: 559,687,749.03 divided The notice of AGM is sent out to all 3 How can I find out about the rights into 4,897,267,804 ordinary shares of 11 7p shareholders who have elected or are entitled and obligations attaching to the each.
The total number of voting rights in the to receive physical documents in time to arrive Companys shares?
Companys issued ordinary share capital at in the ordinary course of the post at least 20 The rights and obligations attaching to the 31 December 2014 was also 4,906,620,219. working days before the date of the meeting.
Companys ordinary shares are those Shown at the foot of this page is an illustration Who will be standing for election or conventional for a publicly listed UK company, of the current make-up of the Groups share re-election at this years AGM?
The Corporate Governance section of the register, which has remained broadly stable, in All the current directors except for Reuel Companys website provides a summary of terms of the categories illustrated, since 2012.
Khoza, who will be retiring as Chairman of these along with certain other information Nedbank Group Limited and also as a relating to dividends, directors and During 2014, the Company issued 9,352,415 non-executive director of the Company in May 3 amendments to the Companys Articles of ordinary shares of 11 7p each under 2015, as well as Vassi Naidoo, who will join Association and the Companys current employee share schemes at an average price the Board from 1 May 2015, will stand for Articles of Association.
election or re-election at this years AGM.
The At 31 December 2014, shareholder authorities Board recommends that every director who is What final dividend is were in force enabling the Company to make standing should be elected or re-elected.
Brief being recommended market purchases of, and or to purchase biographical details of all of the directors are pursuant to contingent purchase contracts contained in the Board of Directors section and what is the relating to each of the overseas exchanges on earlier in this Annual Report.
Additional Companys dividend which its shares are listed, its own shares up to information about them, as well further details an aggregate of 489,737,500 shares.
It bought of the basis on which the Board has assessed policy?
back no shares during 2014 or during the each directors performance and recommends The Board is recommending a final dividend period up to 27 February 2015. their election or re-election, is set out in the for 2014 of 6.25p per share or its equivalent in explanatory notes in the shareholder circular In the period 1 January to 27 February 2015, other applicable currencies.
This, together relating to the AGM.
the Company issued 45,014 further shares with the interim dividend of 2.45p per share under its employee share schemes at an paid in October 2014, equates to 2.06 times average price of 1.27 each and an additional AOP earnings cover for the full year.
A scrip 19,325,430 shares as part of the consideration dividend alternative is not being made for the acquisition of Quilter Cheviot, based available for this dividend, which will be upon a deemed value of 2.1864 per share.
As a result, the Companys issued share capital Current make-up of the Companys share register Substantial interests in the Companys shares US 12.79% At 31 December 2014, the following substantial interests in voting rights in relation to the Companys shares had been declared to the Company Canada 0.39% in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: UK 19.19% % of South African Retail 5.29% Number of voting South African voting rights rights Institutional 37.80% Public Investment Corporation of the Republic of South Africa 268,811,081 5.48 BEE 4.30% BlackRock Inc. 249,751,037 5.09 Policyholders 1.30% Europe & Rest of Sanlam Investment Management the World 11.79% Pty Limited 216,168,105 4.41 Miscellaneous 7.15% 90 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Further information on the final dividend for detailed guidelines as part of the Groups We remain committed 2014 is given in the Shareholder Information policy on non-audit services: a summary of the to having a robust section at the back of this Annual Report.
applicable provisions is available in the Corporate Governance section of our website control environment For future dividends, the Board intends to and is also referred to under Non-audit continue pursuing a progressive dividend policy across the Group.
services on page 86. consistent with our strategy, having regard to overall capital requirements, liquidity and Financial control profitability, and targeting a dividend cover in the range of between 2.0 and 2.25 times AOP environment earnings.
Interim dividends will continue to be What is the Companys internal control set at about 30% of the prior years full environment and how is it monitored?
Since 2009, Old Mutual has implemented a Group-wide framework of financial controls.
During 2014, trustees of the Companys and This has been designed in line with the criteria the Companys South African subsidiary described in Internal Control Integrated employee benefit trusts waived dividends on Framework issued by the Committee of certain shares in the Company held by them Sponsoring Organizations of Treadway relating to awards where the scheme Commission.
Executive management reports participants were not entitled to receive to the Group Audit Committee periodically dividends pending vesting.
The total number on the effectiveness of the financial controls of shares concerned was 19,035,869 for the framework and also assessed its effectiveness final dividend for 2013 and 14,862,677 for the at 31 December 2014, concluding that it was interim dividend for 2014. effective.
This helped the Group Audit Committee and the Board to conclude that Audit arrangements they could rely on the operation of these Who are the Companys auditors and controls as part of their review of internal how much are they paid?
control effectiveness referred to below.
KPMG LLP or, prior to 2014, its related An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating associated entity KPMG Audit Plc have been and managing the significant risks faced by Old Mutuals auditors since the Company was the Group has been in place for the year originally listed in 1999.
We have made ended 31 December 2014 and up to this arrangements with KPMG for appropriate reports date of approval, as described in audit director rotation in line with the more detail below.
Further details of the requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Groups Risk and Capital Management Board.
The current audit engagement director disciplines are described in a dedicated in the UK, Philip Smart, assumed this role in section earlier in this Annual Report.
The Group Audit Committee report above The Board has overall responsibility for the describes how that committee satisfies itself Groups system of internal control and for about KPMGs performance, the basis on reviewing its effectiveness, while the which it carried out an audit tender during implementation of internal control systems is 2014, and its recommendation to re-appoint the responsibility of management.
Executive KPMG which has expressed its willingness to management has implemented an internal continue in office as auditors for 2015 at this control system designed to help ensure: years AGM.
The Company has not entered The effective and efficient operation of the into any contractual restriction preventing it Group and its business units by enabling from considering a change of auditors.
management to respond appropriately to significant risks to achieving the Groups During the year ended 31 December 2014, business objectives fees paid by the Group to KPMG and its 13.7m associates totalled 13.7 million for audit The safeguarding of assets from Total audit fees paid to services 2013: 12.0 million and 3.4 million inappropriate use or from loss and fraud KPMG for tax, assurance and other non-audit services and ensuring that liabilities are identified 2013: 2.8 million.
In addition to the above, and managed Nedbank Group paid a further 3.2 million The quality of internal and external reporting 3.4m 2013: 3.7 million to Deloitte in respect of Compliance with applicable laws and joint audit arrangements.
Total non-audit fees paid to regulations, and with internal policies on the KPMG conduct of business.
The Group Audit Committee has approved Old Mutual plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The system of internal control is designed to What is the role of Group Internal Audit?
GIA was fit for purpose in meeting the Groups manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of The purpose of Group Internal Audit GIA is current assurance needs.
The Committee on failure to achieve the Groups business to help the Board and executive management Internal Audit Guidance for Financial Services, objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, and to protect the assets, reputation and chaired by the Group Audit Committee not absolute, assurance against material sustainability of the Group.
GIA does this Chairman, published its 29 final misstatement or loss.
by assessing whether all significant risks are recommendations in July 2013.
GIA has identified and appropriately reported by analysed current performance against each of The Groups actions to review the effectiveness management and the Risk function to the these recommendations and has made good of the system of internal control include: Board and executive management: assessing progress in addressing them all: most are now whether they are adequately controlled: and either implemented or in the process of being An annual review of the risk assessment challenging executive management to piloted or embedded.
It should be noted that procedures, control environment improve the effectiveness of governance, some of the actions are evolutionary in nature considerations, information and risk management and internal controls.
and will bed down over time.
communication and monitoring procedures at Group level and within each business GIAs work is focused on the areas of greatest Can you confirm that the Company unit.
This review covers all material risk, both current and emerging, to the Group is a going concern?
controls including financial, operational as determined by a comprehensive risk-based The Groups financial position, its cash flows, and compliance controls and risk planning process.
The Group Audit Committee liquidity position and borrowing facilities are management systems approves the annual Internal Audit plan and described in the Financial review and risk A certification process, under which all any subsequent material amendments to it and section of this Annual Report.
In addition, Note business units are required to confirm that also satisfies itself that GIA has adequate E1 to the financial statements includes the they have undertaken risk management in resources to discharge its function.
The Board Groups objectives, policies and processes for accordance with the Group risk framework, is able to confirm that this is the case for 2014 managing its capital solvency risk and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of and 2015. liquidity risks and sets out details of the the system of internal controls, that internal principal risks related to financial instrument There are Internal Audit teams in each of our policies have been complied with, and that market risk, credit risk and insurance risks as major businesses.
The heads of Internal Audit no significant risks or issues are known well as their sensitivities.
in the Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries report which have not been reported in directly to the Head of Group Audit HGA.
The preceding sections of the Annual Report accordance with policy Heads of audit in majority-owned subsidiaries referred to above also explain the basis on Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the have a dual reporting line to the HGA, in line which the Group generates and preserves system of internal control by the Group Audit with the Group Operating Model.
value over the longer term and the strategy for Committee, which receives reports from the delivering its objectives.
The FGD surplus capital Group Internal Audit function.
The committee During 2014, the HGA reported functionally to and cash flow are stress tested and are within also receives reports from the external the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee the limits described in the Risk and Capital auditors, which include details of significant and administratively to the Group Chief Management section in order to identify those internal control matters that they have Executive.
The HGA attends all meetings of the risks that would threaten the Groups solvency identified during the course of their work.
Group Audit Committee, and has unrestricted and liquidity.
As a consequence, the directors access to the Group Chief Executive and the These activities supplement the regular risk believe that the Group is in a strong financial Chairman of the Board, as well as open management activities which are performed position and is well placed to manage its invitations to attend any meetings of the on an ongoing basis, as described in more business risks successfully.
business unit Audit Committees, the Board detail in the Risk and Capital Management Risk Committee and the Group Executive After making enquiries, the Board has a section elsewhere in this document.
reasonable expectation that the Company The certification process described above and the Group have adequate resources to Internal Audit teams across Old Mutual use a does not apply to some joint ventures where continue in operational existence for the single audit methodology which meets the the Group does not exercise full management foreseeable future.
Accordingly, it continues to standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
In these cases, Old Mutual monitors adopt the going concern basis in preparing Issues raised by Internal Audit in the course of the internal control environment and the the financial statements.
its work are discussed with management, who potential impact on the Group through are responsible for implementing agreed Has all relevant information been representation on the board of the actions to address the issues identified within disclosed to the auditors?
an appropriate and agreed timeframe.
The directors who held office at the date of The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the approval of this Annual Report confirm that, so The HGA submits formal reports to each system of internal control during and at the far as they are each aware, there is no meeting of the Group Audit Committee, end of the year.
Our annual internal control relevant audit information of which the summarising the results of internal audit assessment has not highlighted any material Companys auditors are unaware, and each activity, managements progress in addressing failings.
We remain committed to having a director has taken all the steps that he or she issues and other significant matters.
robust internal control environment across ought to have taken as a director to make the Group.
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit External advisers carry out periodic information and to establish that the Companys assessments of GIAs effectiveness.
The most auditors were aware of that information.
recent assessment, in 2012, concluded that 92 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance A description of the Groups environmental Other Directors management and impact during the year is Report matters contained in our Responsible Business Report for 2014, available on our website.
As an international business active in many Information about the Groups greenhouse countries, the Group operates through gas emissions is given in the Key subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and Performance Indicators section of this associated companies established in, and Annual Report subject to the laws and regulations of, many Important events relating to the Group since different jurisdictions.
the end of the financial year are included in Does the Company have any significant the Strategic Report as well as in Note H9 to agreements involving change of control?
the financial statements The following significant agreement to which A description of likely future developments the Company is a party contains provisions of the business of the Company or our entitling counterparties to exercise termination subsidiaries is contained in the Strategic or other rights in the event of a change of Report and the Financial review and control of the Company: risk section 800 million Revolving Credit Facility dated The Groups involvement in research and 22 August 2014 between the Company, development, insofar as relevant to its various syndicate banks the Banks and Bank operations, is given in the Strategic Report of America Merrill Lynch International Limited and the Financial review and risk section.
If a person or group of Did the Group make any political persons acting in concert gains control of the donations during 2014?
Company, the Company must notify the Agent.
The Group made no EU or other political The Agent and the Company will negotiate donations during the year.
with a view to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to the Company and all of the Banks How did the Board approve this for continuing the facility.
If such negotiations Annual Report?
fail within 30 days of the original notification The Board approved this Annual Report at to the Agent by the Company, the Banks its meeting at the end of February 2015.
It become entitled to declare any outstanding confirmed that it considered the Annual Report indebtedness repayable by giving notice to and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, the Agent within 15 days of the 30-day period balanced and understandable and to provide mentioned above.
On receiving notice for the information necessary for shareholders to payment from the Agent, the Company shall assess the Companys performance, business pay the outstanding sums within three model and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion, business days to the relevant Bank s. it took into account input from the Group Audit, Remuneration and Board Risk Committees, Where can I find the other matters which had previously had the opportunity to required to be included in the review and comment on drafts of the sections Directors Report?
falling within their respective remits.
The Company has taken advantage of paragraph 1A of Schedule 7 to The Large Governing law and Medium-sized Companies and Groups The Strategic Report, Financial review and risk Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 to section, and this Corporate Governance report disclose certain information that must be collectively comprise the directors report for disclosed as part of its Directors Report the purposes of section 463 1 a of the either elsewhere in this document or in its Companies Act 2006.
The Directors Responsible Business Report as set out below: Remuneration Report contained in this Annual Report is the directors remuneration report for Our financial risk management objectives the purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
and policies are described in the Risk and English law governs the disclosures contained Capital Management section of this Annual in and liability for the directors report and the Report.
Along with Notes E1 to E11 to the directors remuneration report.
financial statements, this also addresses the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, Martin Murray liquidity risk and cash flow risk Group Company Secretary 27 February 2015 Old Mutual plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
