B2 Corporate governance Good corporate governance is essential to the ethos of the Paragon Group.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and for the delivery of that strategy within a strong corporate governance and corporate responsibility framework.
In April 2014 a review was undertaken of the Groups Governance and Risk Management Framework, excluding Paragon Bank, for a number of reasons including to take account of changes in best practice: the need for enhanced management of regulatory and conduct risks to ensure positive outcomes for customers: the Groups increased exposure to regulatory authorities including, but not limited to, the need for a number of entities within the Group to apply for FCA authorisation during 2015 in relation to their consumer credit activities, and the evolving expectations of external stakeholders.
The outcome of this review, in so far as it related to the Companys governance structure, is detailed in this section.
Paragon Banks governance and risk management framework was established as part of its start-up processes and reflects a similar governance structure to that of the Company with a corporate board, audit committee, remuneration committee and risk and compliance committee and executive committees including an operational risk and compliance committee, asset and liability committee and credit committee.
The board of Paragon Bank includes two independent non-executive directors and the intention is to appoint a third.
The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 and which is publicly available on their website at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2014 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
The FRC introduced a revised Code for financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2014 and consequently the Group will be reporting against the new Code for the financial year ending 30 September 2015 and work is under way to ensure that we comply with the revised Code.
leadership The Board of Directors is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving major agreements, transactions and other financing matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and the executive directors, determination and approval of the Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment decisions, corporate governance policies and financial and dividend policies.
During the year the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, the executive directors four for the first eight months of the year and three for the remaining four months and four independent non-executive directors.
A further non-executive director was appointed after the year end.
All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience.
The names of the directors in office at the date of this report and their biographical details are set out in section B1.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including Edward Tilly, the Senior Independent Director.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details in section B1 and there have been no significant changes during the period to those commitments.
The Board has agreed a set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and a process to identify and authorise any conflicts which might arise.
At each meeting of the Board actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain specific matters, these being: Board committees The Remuneration Committee, which during the year consisted of Alan Fletcher who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Peter Hartill and Edward Tilly, all of whom were independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 42 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 42 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance The Audit Committee formerly the Audit and Compliance Committee, which during the year consisted of Peter Hartill who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Alan Fletcher and Edward Tilly, all of whom were independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times a year.
The Risk and Compliance Committee, which was established during the year and consisted of Fiona Clutterbuck who chairs the Committee, Peter Hartill, Alan Fletcher and Edward Tilly, all of whom were independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
The Committee first met in June 2014 and will meet at least four times a year.
The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
Executive committees The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of the heads of relevant functions and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive.
The Committee meets regularly and monitors Group liquidity risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and treasury counterparty exposures.
Further information on the Groups financial risk management procedures and the Committees part in them is given in note 7 to the accounts.
The Credit Committee, consisting of the heads of relevant functions and chaired by Richard Woodman, the Group Finance Director.
It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing credit policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
The Operational Risk and Compliance Committee, consisting of the heads of relevant functions and chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
This Committee was established following the review of the Groups governance and risk management framework and first met in October 2014.
It will meet regularly and is responsible for operational, conduct and business risks.
All board committees operate within defined terms of reference and sufficient resources are made available to them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of the board committees are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The attendance of individual directors at the regular meetings of the Board and its committees in the year is set out below, with the number of meetings each was eligible to attend shown in brackets.
Directors who are unable to attend meetings will receive the papers and any comments will be reported to the relevant meeting.
Directors have attended a number of ad hoc meetings during the year in addition to the regular Board meetings and have contributed to discussions outside of the regular meeting calendar.
risk and Compliance remuneration Nomination Director Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Robert G Dench 9 9 - 1 1 4 4 - Nigel S Terrington 9 9 - - - - Richard J Woodman 9 9 - - - - John A Heron 9 9 - - - - Nicholas Keen 7 7 - - - - Edward A Tilly 7 9 2 3 1 1 2 4 - Alan K Fletcher 9 9 3 3 1 1 4 4 - Peter J N Hartill 9 9 3 3 1 1 4 4 - Fiona J Clutterbuck 9 9 3 3 1 1 4 4 - The work of the board committees is described further in sections B2.1, B2.2, B2.3 and B3.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 43 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance B2 Corporate governance continued Effectiveness All of the non-executive directors are independent of management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
The non-executive directors meet with the Chairman, from time to time, without the presence of the executive directors.
All of the directors holding office at the year end were re-elected at the Annual General Meeting on 6 February 2014 and all of them have submitted themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing professional development opportunities as are identified as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority between executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the Groups business activities.
There is an established process for external appointments through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Non-executive appointments are based upon the candidates profiles matching those agreed by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
Succession planning has been reviewed and developed across the Group during the year under review and has been an important area of focus for the Board and senior management.
In relation to the Board the planned succession of Richard Woodman as Group Finance Director in place of Nicholas Keen progressed smoothly with Richard Woodman undertaking, or being significantly involved in, a number of the finance operations which did not directly report to him before 1 June 2014 several months before he was appointed Group Finance Director.
The Human Resources department has developed a wider succession development plan for senior management roles across the Group, to prioritise those roles which are likely to require recruitment within the next five years.
This data has been considered against internally identified individuals, with high potential and the capability to fulfil those roles as they become vacant, to ensure that succession requirements can be met.
Internal individuals will be developed for future senior roles and this will be complemented with external recruitment at a senior level where necessary, to balance the required skills and experience of the senior management team and ensure continuing success in the future.
The Board, individual directors and board committees are appraised annually.
No review was undertaken of the Risk and Compliance Committee during the year ended 30 September 2014, as it had only met once towards the end of that period.
The Risk and Compliance Committee will be included in the annual appraisal of committees during 2015.
During the year ended 30 September 2013 the Board conducted a formal and rigorous performance review, which was facilitated by Socia Limited, who have no other connection with the Group.
The facilitators formal report stated that the review indicated that the Company met the requirements of the Code.
An internally facilitated review was undertaken in the year ended 30 September 2014 and no issues arose which were required to be addressed.
The non-executive directors meet to review the performance of the Chairman.
The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
The Chairman appraises the performance of the non-executive directors, identifying any development opportunities or training needs.
All of the non-executive directors have received presentations during the year on various aspects of the Groups activities.
In addition training has been provided by the auditors, Deloitte and other external advisers on topics such as governance, financial reporting and regulation.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 44 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 44 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any non-executive director, that, following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Accountability Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Strategic Report.
The Board uses this to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described in section B5.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2014 and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
Going forward the internal control system will also include the regular meetings of the Operational Risk and Compliance Committee.
Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the Group Finance Director and senior financial management of the Group, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and expenditures are only being made in accordance with management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
