B2.3 NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is convened as required to nominate candidates for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment rests with the Board.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, at all levels of the organisation including the Board and the contribution which it can make to Board effectiveness.
The Groups diversity policies are described in section A5.1 of the Annual Report, where information on the composition of the workforce is also given.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity on the Board, not only of gender, but also of experience and background, and the valuable contribution which such diversity can make towards achieving the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge which an effective board of directors requires.
There is a formal process for the appointment of directors, which includes reviewing the Board structure, size and composition, leading to the identification of the skills required and the suitable candidates by the Committee.
The choice of appointee is based entirely on merit.
The Committee ensures that prospective non-executive directors can devote sufficient time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the benefits that can flow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
The Committee engages in the process of identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board at its request.
No meetings of the Committee took place during the year ended 30 September 2014.
The Committee did meet to consider and subsequently recommend the appointment of Hugo Tudor to the Board in conjunction with Mr Tudor meeting with the Chairman and other Board members, his attendance as an observer at meetings of the Board and its committees, and reference checking by the Company..
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 51 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
