B2 Corporate governance continued The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Further details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors are set out in section B2.1.
The Risk and Compliance Committee will review the Groups risk management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls.
There will be overlap between the work of the Audit Committee and that of the Risk and Compliance Committee from time to time and the Board will monitor these areas to ensure that no gaps develop in the system of internal control.
Remuneration Information on how the Group has applied the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in section B3.
Relations with shareholders The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities, to answer their questions and receive their views.
Shareholders have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balances for, against and directed to be withheld in respect of each resolution is announced.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and investors comments are communicated to all members of the Board, enabling them to develop an understanding of the major shareholders views of the Group.
During the year ended 30 September 2014 meetings were held with investors from the UK, Europe and North America.
From time to time other presentations are made to institutional investors and analysts to enable them to gain a greater understanding of important aspects of the Groups business.
The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee hold annual meetings with leading shareholders to discuss remuneration policies and other corporate governance matters and the comments received are reported to the Board and considered by the Remuneration Committee in determining or varying the Groups approach to executive compensation.
The results of all of these meetings are reported to the Board so that all directors are aware of shareholders views.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with shareholders should they wish to do so and such meetings can be arranged via the Company Secretary.
The Companys web site at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Company and its businesses.
B2.1 AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors of the Company and its terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting: The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 46 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 46 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance reviewing the Groups internal control systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: and monitoring the relationship between the Group and the external auditor.
It also provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the non-executive directors.
Until the establishment of the Risk and Compliance Committee in the year the Committee, as the Audit and Compliance Committee, was also responsible for those matters now within the scope of the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Meetings The Committee meets at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman, the executive directors, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and a partner and other representatives from the external auditor to attend meetings of the Committee, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
For part of each meeting the Committee will meet separately with representatives of the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without any other persons present.
At each meeting the Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, Compliance functions.
The Chairman of Paragon Banks audit committee is invited to meetings of the Committee when matters relating to the bank are to be discussed.
Significant issues addressed by the Committee in relation to the Financial Statements The Committee considers whether the accounting policies adopted by the Group are suitable and whether significant estimates and judgements made by the management are appropriate.
In evaluating the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014 the Committee considered particularly: the calculation of interest income under the Effective Interest Rate method for both internally originated and purchased loan assets: the levels of impairment provision against loan assets: the valuation of the deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme: and the Groups capital and funding position and the Group forecasts for future periods.
In each of these areas the Committee was provided with papers discussing the position shown in the accounts, the underlying market conditions and assumptions and the methodology adopted for any calculations.
These were reviewed in detail and discussed with the relevant Group staff and the results of this work were considered, together with the results of testing by the external auditor.
The Committee also considered whether this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was able to reach satisfactory conclusions on all of these areas and therefore resolved to commend the Annual Report to the Board for approval.
External auditor The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 47 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance B2.1 Audit Committee continued Audit tendering On 24 September 2014 the Competition and Markets Authority finalised its investigation in to the audit market and published The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order.
The provisions of the Order are consistent with new requirements being introduced by European legislation.
The Order will apply to the Group with effect from 1 October 2015 and will require that only the Committee can agree the fees and terms of service of the external auditors, initiate and supervise a tendering process or recommend the appointment of an external auditor to the Board following a tender process.
Deloitte LLP and its predecessor firms have been the auditors of the Group since its foundation in 1985, although the lead audit partner rotates every five years, most recently following the completion of the audit for the year ended 30 September 2011.
Due to this length of service the Order requires that the Group replace Deloitte as external auditor at or before the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020.
The Committee has considered the terms of the Order and the increasing frequency of audit tenders seen among comparable companies and has concluded that the interests of good governance would be best served by putting the Group audit out to tender during the financial year ending 30 September 2015.
The Group will inform shareholders of the outcome of this process by the time of the announcement of the 2015 results and the successful candidate will be placed before the members for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2016.
If approved they will first report on the financial year ending 30 September 2016.
In order to allow time for this process the Committee has recommended that Deloitte be retained as auditor for the year ending 30 September 2015.
The Committee has not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
Audit effectiveness The Committee have considered the effectiveness of the external audit for the year ended 30 September 2014 and the Groups relationship with the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, on an on-going basis, and have conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the annual audit before commending this Annual Report to the Board.
This review consisted of considering a list of relevant questions, together with the senior financial management of the Group, without the external auditor present, and then discussing the evaluation with the auditors.
The Committee was able to conclude, on the basis of this exercise and its experience over the year that the external audit process remained effective and that the auditor was independent and objective.
A further review will be carried out following the completion of audit procedures on all Group companies and reported on in next years annual report.
The effectiveness review undertaken at the time of approval of the 2013 Group accounts was updated once the audit process for all Group companies had been completed and affirmed the original conclusion that the external audit was independent and objective and that the audit process was effective for that financial year.
Before recommending their reappointment to the Board, the Committee engaged with the auditors to ensure that they are still providing the required quality of service and remained independent.
During the year the external auditor presented the Committee with their firms transparency report, which is intended to demonstrate the steps it takes to ensure audit quality with reference to the Audit Quality Framework issued by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council.
More specifically the Committee considered whether the auditors understanding of the Groups business, their access to appropriate financial services and regulatory specialists within their firm, both locally and nationally, and their understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates were appropriate to the Groups needs.
It also assessed the performance of the audit, as described above, the auditors conduct of their relationship with the Group and the requirements of the Groups financial control process.
On this basis the Committee concluded that it might recommend to the Board that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the tendering timetable described above.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 48 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 48 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance Independence Both the Committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid any compromise of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditor annually and the Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy precludes the appointment of the external auditor to provide any service where there is involvement in management functions or decision making, or any service on which management may place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
The external auditor may provide corporate finance and similar services provided there is no significant advocacy role or tax services but, if the advice given or the position taken would be material to the Group, the prior consent of the Committee would be required.
Internal audit services will not be provided by the external auditor.
Other services may be procured by management without the prior consent of the Committee, but are reported to the Committee on an ongoing basis.
Fees paid to the external auditor are shown in note 17 to the Accounts.
Other than services required to be provided by external auditors by legislation or regulation, non-audit services relate to taxation, securitisation reporting, corporate finance activity and the advisory work in connection with the Groups application for a banking licence shown as other services in note 17.
In respect of taxation services the Committee has considered the services provided and concluded that the understanding of the Group and the industry demonstrated by the advisers make them well placed to meet the Groups needs.
In respect of the securitisation reporting services, the external auditors firm was selected to provide these services as they were considered to offer the most appropriate skills and experience for the projects concerned in a cost-effective manner, given their existing knowledge of the Groups systems.
In respect of the corporate finance services, these represent a success fee that was specific to the transaction concerned and the use of the external auditors firm was approved by the Committee after having received confirmation from the auditor that they had taken specific steps to protect their independence in accordance with the Auditing Practices Boards Revised Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The auditor has confirmed that the engagement team had no connection with this assignment, the work was carried out by a different department within their firm and that the transaction had no impact on audit judgments.
Overall the fees paid to the external auditor for non-audit services excluding VAT, were 1,158,000 2013: 1,185,000, which is equivalent to 67% of the total fees paid to them.
However 500,000 relates to a success fee payable in the corporate finance transaction described above.
Excluding this item, non-audit fees represent 54% of the total.
The Group actively considers other providers for the type of non-audit services provided by the external auditors firm and has engaged with other audit firms in the period.
Internal audit During the year the Committee has considered and approved the Group internal audit plan, which is based on an assessment of the key risks faced by the Group.
It has monitored progress of the Internal Audit function against that plan, ensuring that the internal audit function has sufficient resource to carry out its duties effectively.
Reports on internal audit work have been received by the Committee and, where necessary appropriate actions have been recommended to the Board.
The results of this work, together with the Committees engagement with the management information of the Group and the executive directors, has enabled them to conclude that the statements given in section B2 relating to the Groups systems of internal control and its management of risk are appropriate.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 49 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
