B1 Board of Directors Robert G Dench - Chairman Age 64 Bob Dench joined the Group as a non-executive director in September 2004 and was appointed Chairman in February 2007.
During an extended career with Barclays he held a number of senior positions in the UK and overseas, leaving in 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and Chairman of AXA Ireland Limited.
Nigel S Terrington - Chief Executive Age 54 Nigel Terrington is Chief Executive of the Group.
He joined in 1987 and became Chief Executive in 1995, having previously held the positions of Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to joining the Group, he worked in investment banking.
He is currently a member of HM Treasurys Home Finance Forum, the Bank of Englands Residential Property Forum and the Chairmans Committee and the Executive Committee of the Council of Mortgage Lenders CML.
He has previously held the positions of Chairman of the CML, Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association IMLA, Chairman of the Finance and Leasing Association FLA Consumer Finance Division and a board member of the FLA.
He is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Richard J Woodman - Group Finance Director Age 49 Richard Woodman was initially appointed to the Board as Director of Corporate Development in 2012, before being appointed Group Finance Director in June 2014.
He joined the Group in 1989 and has held various senior strategic and financial roles, latterly as Director of Business Analysis and Planning and Managing Director of Idem Capital.
He has taken a lead role in the Groups strategic development and, in particular, in the portfolio acquisition programme through Idem Capital.
He is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
John A Heron - Managing Director Paragon Mortgages Age 55 John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
He was appointed as Marketing Director in 1990 and in 1994 played a pivotal role in re-establishing the Groups mortgage lending operations as Managing Director of Paragon Mortgages.
He joined the Board in 2003 and is responsible for the Groups first mortgage business.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, Chair of the CMLs buy-to-let panel and a member of the IMLA board.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 40 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 40 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance Edward A Tilly - Non-executive director Age 71 Ted Tilly was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 2008.
He was the senior independent director of Retail Decisions PLC from January 2000 until January 2007.
He has held a number of directorships including Chairman of Barclays Life Assurance Company Limited from 1999 to 2003.
Prior to this he was Chairman and Chief Executive of GE Capitals European insurance division.
He was with the Legal & General Group for nearly thirty years where he held a number of senior positions including Director Life and Pensions and Director International.
He is the Groups Senior Independent Director.
Alan K Fletcher - Non-executive director Age 64 Alan Fletcher was appointed as a non-executive director on 25 February 2009.
He has considerable experience in financial services, including pension fund trusteeship and investment fund management.
He was Chairman of Neville James Holdings prior to its acquisition by Challenger International of Australia, following which he was Sales and Marketing Director of Challenger Group Services and a director of Challenger Life UK from 2002 to 2003.
He was Chairman of the professional training company, Fresh Professional Development, from 2003 to 2010.
He was a member of the General Synod of the Church of England between 2007 and 2010.
He has been a member of the Church of England Pensions Board since 2009 and is also a member of its Investment Committee and Chairman of the Housing Committee.
He is Chairman of the Groups Remuneration Committee.
Peter J N Hartill - Non-executive director Age 65 Peter Hartill was appointed as a non-executive director on 11 February 2011.
A Chartered Accountant, he is currently Chairman of Deeley Group Limited and a non-executive director of Scott Bader Limited.
Previously, he spent forty years with Deloitte, becoming a senior audit partner and a business advisor with experience across a wide range of industries and business issues.
Specifically he has considerable experience in acquisitions and disposals, capital raising, risk control and corporate governance in the financial services sector.
He is Chairman of the Groups Audit Committee.
Fiona J Clutterbuck - Non-executive director Age 56 Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed as a non-executive director on 12 September 2012.
She is currently the Head of Strategy, Corporate Development and Communications at the Phoenix Group and is also senior independent director of WS Atkins plc and brings to the Board a substantial level of corporate finance experience, having previously held the positions of Managing Director and Head of Financial Institutions Advisory at ABN AMRO Investment Bank, Managing Director and Global Co-Head of Financial Institutions Group at HSBC Investment Bank and Director at Hill Samuel Bank Limited.
She is Chairman of the Groups Risk and Compliance Committee.
Hugo R Tudor - Non-executive director Age 51 Hugo Tudor was appointed as a non-executive director on 24 November 2014.
He spent 26 years in the fund management industry, originally with Schroders and most recently with BlackRock, covering a wide range of UK equities.
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a Chartered Accountant and brings an investor perspective to the Board.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
