B2.2 RISk AND COMPlIANCE COMMITTEE The Risk and Compliance Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference include all matters indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing: the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the extent to which risks inherent in the Groups business activities are controlled within the risk appetite established by the Group Board: the effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls for compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations, as well as its obligations under significant contracts: and the appropriateness of the Groups risk culture, to ensure it supports the Groups stated risk appetite.
Meetings The Committee meets at least four times a year and has an agenda linked to the financial year.
The Committee normally invites the executive directors, Director of Group Risk, Chief Risk Officer of Paragon Bank, Director of Legal Services and Head of Internal Audit to attend meetings of the Committee, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The Committee meets with the Director of Group Risk and the Chief Risk Officer of Paragon Bank at least once a year, without the presence of executive management, to discuss their remits and any issues arising from those remits.
The Committee shall also have the opportunity to meet with the Head of Internal Audit and or the external auditor without the presence of executive management to discuss any matters that any of these parties believe should be discussed privately.
At each meeting the Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Risk and, from time to time, Compliance functions.
Significant issues addressed by the Committee The Committee is developing its annual schedule of events as the Groups governance and risk framework is developed and embedded across the Group.
It regularly receives the minutes of the Asset and Liability, Credit and Operational Risk and Compliance Committees for consideration together with regulatory updates and oversight of the Groups application for authorisation under the FCAs consumer credit regime.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 50 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
