GOVERNANCE THE COMPANYS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board and Committees Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources investment management to the Manager and administration to the Manager and other external service providers.
The Board Six non-executive directors Chairman Bill Alexander Key objectives: to set strategy, values and standards: to provide leadership within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Remuneration Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Function Chairman Bill Alexander Chairman Antony Hardy The Board as a whole The Board as a whole performs this function performs this function Other members: Other members: Antony Hardy Bill Alexander Vivian Bazalgette Vivian Bazalgette Richard Laing Richard Laing Key objective: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objective: to review regularly to oversee the to review regularly to set the control environment the management the Boards structure remuneration policy contract and the and financial and composition: of the Company.
performance of the reporting: and and Manager.
to review other to make service providers, recommendations including the auditor.
for any changes or new appointments.
The Portfolio Manager The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, is based in Henley-on-Thames.
As one of the teams most experienced fund managers and specialising in UK equity income investing, Mark was recently promoted by Invesco Perpetual to Head of UK Equities.
In this role, Mark is responsible for the management of a number of UK equity portfolios, with a focus on the management of open and closed ended vehicles.
Mark joined Perpetual in 1996 and has been the investment manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust since 1999.
Mark started his investment career in 1992 at Mercury Asset Management.
He graduated in French and Politics from Reading University in 1992 and has passed the associated examinations of the Association for Investment Management and Research AIMR.
