GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 The Audit Committee is chaired by myself, Antony Hardy, and the other members are Bill Alexander, Vivian Bazalgette and Richard Laing.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, were updated during the year, are compliant with the AIC Code and are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company or on the Managers website.
They will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
Audit Committee Duties The Committees main duties include: review of the Companys risk matrix and risk control summary and the effectiveness of internal control, together with consideration of the Managers and external service providers control reports: consideration of the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance departments, and the results therefrom: also review of the effectiveness of the Managers internal audit: review of the Managers whistleblowing arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in relation to the Company: review of the half year results and the annual financial statements including: compliance with relevant statute and listing requirements: the appropriateness of accounting policies: any financial judgements and key assumptions: disclosures in relation to internal controls and risk management and going concern: and advising the Board, at its request, on whether the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable: review of the performance fee calculation: consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit, items for audit focus and discussion of the audit findings: consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and making recommendations to the Board in respect of the auditors appointment, reappointment and removal and for the terms of their audit engagement, as well as any recommendation of non-audit services.
Representatives of the auditor attend the Committee meeting at which the draft annual financial report is reviewed and are given the opportunity to speak to Committee members without the presence of representatives of the Manager.
The Committee met three times in the year in the performance of its duties.
It has direct access to the auditor and representatives of the Manager, including the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit personnel, who attend Committee meetings, one meeting being prior to approval and signature of the annual financial report.
The Committee reviewed reports on the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company and the systems of internal controls in place.
Accounting Matters and Significant Areas For the year end, the accounting matters that were identified for specific consideration by the Committee follow: SIGNIFICANT AREA HOW ADDRESSED Accuracy of the portfolio Actively traded listed investments are valued using stock exchange prices valuation, with emphasis on provided by third party pricing vendors.
Investments that are unlisted or investments that are not not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques to determine listed, or are listed but not a fair value, as set out in the accounting polices, and all such valuations regularly traded.
are reviewed by the Managers pricing committee and the Committee.
Correct calculation of the The year end performance fee calculation is prepared and reviewed by performance fee.
the Manager and reviewed in depth by the Committee with reference to the investment management agreement.
28 GOVERNANCE SIGNIFICANT AREA HOW ADDRESSED Recognition of income.
The recognition of income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy note 1 e on page 41.
The Committee satisfied itself that adequate systems were in place for the complete and proper recording of income.
These matters were discussed with the Manager and the auditor in pre year end audit planning, and were satisfactorily addressed through consideration of reports provided by, and discussed with, the Manager and the auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Audit Committee advised the Board that, following a thorough review of the 2014 annual financial report, the report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Review of the External Auditor, including Non-Audit Services and Re-appointment The provision of non-audit services is considered by the Committee on a case-by-case basis, and consideration is given as to whether the skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier of such services and to ensure that there is no resultant threat to the objectivity and independence of the audit.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2014 were 4,000 in respect of compliance with the debenture covenants and the debenture trust deed.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the auditors independence and objectivity.
Non-audit services up to 5,000 do not require approval in advance of the Audit Committee: amounts in excess of this require the approval of the Audit Committee.
Following the satisfactory outcome to the Committees regular review of auditor effectiveness, performance and independence, the Committee recommends to the Board a resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the forthcoming AGM for the year ending 31 March 2015.
Deloitte have been the auditor of the Company since its inception in 1996.
As highlighted in last years annual report, the Committee intends to initiate a tender process to coincide with the normal audit partner rotation cycle, which corresponds with the 2016 annual audit appointment.
Audit Information The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the major risks faced by the Company.
Risks are reviewed by means of the Companys risk matrix and risk control summary which, after consideration of mitigating controls, effectively highlight and monitor the Companys principal risks.
These risks include those arising in relation to the Companys operations that are, of necessity as an externally managed investment trust, contracted to external service providers.
These external service providers comprise the Manager to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services are delegated accounts administrator, custodian, registrar and corporate broker.
Systems are in operation to safeguard the Companys assets, to maintain proper accounting records and to ensure that financial information is reliable.
The Committee receives and considers, together with representatives of the Manager, reports by independent external accountants in relation to the operational system of financial and non-financial internal controls of the Manager, accounts administrator, custodian and registrar.
In addition the Committee, on a formal and regular basis, reviews the performance of all external service providers in relation to agreed service standards, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
These reviews identified no issues of significance in during the year.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Internal Audit Due to the nature of the Company, being an externally managed investment company with no executive employees, and in view of the Manager having an internal audit function, the Company does not have its own internal audit function.
I will be present at the AGM and will be available at that meeting or thereafter to answer questions relating to the annual financial report.
I look forward to seeing shareholders there.
Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 June 2014 30
