REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee, chaired by Stuart Paul and comprising Mr Paul, Gordon Neilly and Frank Rushbrook, meets at least twice yearly to coincide with the annual and interim reporting cycle.
The principal rle of the Audit Committee is to review the annual and interim financial statements, the Accounting Policies applied therein and to ensure compliance with financial and regulatory reporting requirements.
The Audit Committee discusses and agrees the scope of the audit plan for the full year and the Auditors Report on their findings at the conclusion of the audit.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee clearly define the Committees responsibilities.
These terms are reviewed annually and are available for inspection on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee also reviews the system of internal controls, the terms of appointment of the Auditors including their remuneration, the objectivity of the Auditors and the terms under which they are appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee also received a report from the Auditors identifying to its satisfaction how their independence and objectivity is maintained when providing these non-audit services.
Fees for these services amounted to 11,000 for the year ended 30 April 2014 2013: 10,000.
The Board considers that the provision of such services at this level is cost effective and does not impair the independence of Ernst & Young LLP EY.
The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit, the quality of the team and advice received from them through reviewing interaction with the Auditors, reports received from them and discussion with management.
The Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with the effectiveness of the work provided by EY and that EY remain objective and independent.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered whether the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have assumed that the reader of the Annual Report and Accounts has a reasonable level of knowledge of the investment trust industry.
AUDIT TENDER Under the FRC guidance issued and effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012 FTSE 350 constituents are expected to invite tenders for audit services, on a comply or explain basis, every ten years.
Transitional provisions and guidance are in place to assist in determining when the first invitation to tender should take place.
Incoming EU regulation in respect of audit tendering is expected to supersede the FRC guidance.
However, this EU regulation is not yet enacted.
Given this incoming EU regulation the Board determined not to put the audit of Personal Assets Trust out for tender for the year ended 30 April 2014 and instead to await the enactment of the EU regulation.
This regulation is expected to be enacted in July 2014 and the Board has committed to following the guidance in these regulations, including any transitional provisions, in full.
The EU regulation, as drafted, would require a change of Auditors by 2020 and the Boards intention is to put the audit out for tender at the next Audit Partner rotation point, after the 30 April 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are approved.
EY were appointed at the Companys launch in 1983.
The Audit Engagement Partner rotates every five years in accordance with ethical guidelines and 2014 is the first year for the current partner.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process relies principally on a risk-based system of internal control whereby a test matrix is created that identifies the key functions carried out by the Company and other service providers, the individual activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Board and includes consideration of internal control reports issued by the Investment Adviser and other service providers.
18 Personal Assets Trust PLC REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Such review procedures have been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board reviews the Companys activities since the previous Board Meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
Personal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited provides secretarial and administrative services to the Company.
The Company does not have an internal audit function as the Audit Committee believes that the Companys straightforward structure and small number of employees do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the Committee annually.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS The significant issue considered by the Audit Committee during the year in relation to the financial statements of the Group was the valuation of investments.
The Companys accounting policy for valuing investments is set out on page 35 and the prices of all investments are agreed to an independent source.
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Stuart W Paul Director 5 June 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
