CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION Personal Assets Trust is a self-managed investment trust run by its Board, which takes all major decisions collectively.
While Robin Angus has executive duties, all of the Directors regard themselves and one another as equal in the duties and responsibilities they owe to shareholders and accordingly work together as a unitary Board within which the Chairman who is elected by the Directors from among their own number acts as primus inter pares.
The Directors are elected by the shareholders and regard corporate governance and accountability to shareholders as fundamental.
They therefore place considerable emphasis on running the Company in the way they believe to be best suited to the successful management of an investment trust on behalf of its shareholders.
Arrangements appropriate to an investment trust in respect of corporate governance have been made by the Board.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations which are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be obtained from the AICs website at www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders than if it had adopted the UK Code.
COMPLIANCE The Company has complied throughout the year, and continues to comply, with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as disclosed below.
The Board does not consider it appropriate for a Senior Independent Director to be appointed as recommended by provision A.
4.1 of the UK Code, as it operates as a unitary Board.
The Board does not consider it appropriate for Directors to be appointed for a specific term as recommended by principle 4 of the AIC Code and provision B.
The UK Code requires all Directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire annually.
This has been the Companys practice since 2007 and each Director will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer himself for re-election.
The Board does not consider it appropriate for an external evaluation of the Board to be carried out as recommended by provision B.
6.2 of the Code as it believes the current evaluation process to be objective and rigorous.
The Board, which is a unitary Board and meets formally or informally at least once a month, is also of the view that its composition is suitably diverse and effective.
DIRECTORS All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement and, in the opinion of the Board, there are no relationships or conflicts of interest which are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
Hamish Buchan and Gordon Neilly have served for more than nine years.
However, the Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority, and does not consider that a Directors length of tenure reduces his ability to act independently.
22 Personal Assets Trust PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors fees are determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The approval of shareholders in a General Meeting is required to change this limit.
Director Date of Appointment Due date for Re-election Hamish Buchan Chairman 5 July 2001 AGM 2014 Robin Angus Executive Director 18 May 1984 AGM 2014 Gordon Neilly 30 April 1997 AGM 2014 Stuart Paul 16 July 2009 AGM 2014 Frank Rushbrook 16 July 2009 AGM 2014 Any new Directors appointed during the year must stand for re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
All executive and non-executive Directors retire annually and, where appropriate, stand for re-election.
Other than for Robin Angus there is no notice period and no provision for compensation on early termination of appointment.
Only Robin Angus has a contract of service with the Company.
Details of this service contract, his remuneration, and fees paid to other Directors during the year are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Individual Directors may, after having obtained the consent of any other Director, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense on any matter that concerns the furtherance of their duties.
Details of the Directors authority in relation to the issue and buying back by the Company of its shares can be found in the Directors Report.
Similarly, details of those persons with significant holdings in the Company are set out in the Directors Report.
MEETINGS During the year there were six Board meetings, each of which was attended by all of the Directors except Gordon Neilly, who attended five meetings.
There were three Audit Committee meetings, two Remuneration Committee meetings and a Nominations Committee meeting held during the year.
All of these meetings were attended by all of the respective committee members.
Under the terms of the contract with the Investment Adviser, the following matters have been expressly reserved to the Board: a the level and form of liquidity within the portfolio: b asset allocation within the portfolio: c the Companys gearing levels: d matters relating to the buying back and issuance of the Companys shares: e matters relating to shareholder communication: f hedging: g investment in any new asset class: h and such other matters as the Board may reasonably intimate from time to time.
However, the Board is required to engage in active dialogue with the Investment Adviser in relation to the matters referred to at items a, b, e, and f above.
The following diagram highlights various matters considered by the Board during the past year: May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Corporate Consider Annual Dividend Consider London Internal Governance 1st Interim General Policy 3rd Interim Shareholder Controls Review Dividend Meeting Dividend Meeting Review Board and Approval of Interim Impact of Approval of Annual Review Review Committee Supplementary Review of AIFM Supplementary of Risk of Directors Evaluation Prospectus Risk Registers Directive Prospectus Registers Fees Review Approval Approval Impact of Consider Consider Appointment of the Interim of the AIFM 2nd Interim 4th Interim of Investment Report Annual Report Directive Dividend Dividend Adviser Impact of Impact of Impact of Impact of AIFM AIFM AIFM AIFM Directive Directive Directive Directive Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED VOTING POLICY The Investment Adviser is to exercise all votes exercisable by the Company in relation to the Companys investments in favour of resolutions proposed by the Boards of investee companies, save where the Board instructs otherwise.
Board decisions regarding voting on corporate resolutions of companies in which the Company invests are a matter for the whole Board.
All resolutions on which the Company is entitled to vote are monitored and, although normally the Company would vote in favour of all Board resolutions, any contentious matters are referred to the Directors by e-mail for comment.
Any Director disagreeing that the Company should cast an affirmative vote informs the Company Secretary and requests that his view be considered by a sub-committee of the Board consisting of any two Directors.
The sub-committee then considers the matter and informs the Director of its conclusion.
Should the Director disagree with the sub-committees conclusion, a full Board meeting is called to consider the matter.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and places considerable importance on communications with them.
The Investment Adviser reports back to the Board on meetings with shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company and the London Shareholder Meeting provide a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Board.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and comprising Mr Buchan, Stuart Paul and Frank Rushbrook, considers the appointment of new Directors.
Diversity, including gender, is considered when seeking potential candidates.
The Nomination Committee meets at least annually.
New Directors appointed to the Board are given an induction meeting with the Executive Office and are provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and their duties as a Director.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that could affect the Company and the Directors.
Professional advisers report from time to time and Directors will, if necessary, attend seminars covering relevant issues and developments.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the performance of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and individual Directors was evaluated through a discussion based assessment process led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors.
The UK Code requires the Company to engage an external facilitator for the Board evaluation every three years.
However, the Board has elected not to comply with this requirement as disclosed on page 22.
GOING CONCERN The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and review processes noted above and bearing in mind the nature of the Groups business and assets, which are considered to be readily realisable if required, that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By Order of the Board Steven K Davidson Secretary 10 St Colme Street Edinburgh EH3 6AA 5 June 2014 24 Personal Assets Trust PLC
