Report on Corporate Governance Directors and Board Report on Corporate Governance Independence and composition The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing management of the Companys affairs and currently Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they consists of six non-executive Directors five of whom have applied the principles and complied with the are considered independent.
Each Director has different provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the where issues arise.
The Chairman is responsible for the FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
uk leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in The Financial Reporting Council confirmed in 2013 that all aspects of its role.
by following the AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Directors are listed on pages 46 to 47 along with their AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Guide for biographical details which demonstrate the breadth of Investment Companies produced by the AIC, boards investment, commercial and professional experience of investment companies should fully meet their obligations relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
in relation to the UK Code and the UK Listing Rules.
The AIC code and AIC guide address the principles set out in the UK All the Directors, with the exception of Brian AshfordCode as well as additional principles and recommendations Russell, were considered independent of the Investment on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The AIC Manager and had no relationship or conflicts which were Code can be viewed at www.
co. uk likely to affect their independent judgment.
Consequently the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment As an investment company most of the day to day Manager and the Board considers that its overall responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as composition is adequate for the effective governance the Company has no employees and all the Directors of the Company.
Many of the provisions of the UK Code are not directly applicable to the Company.
Succession planning and diversity While the Board recognises the value of progressive The Board has determined that reporting against the refreshing of and succession planning for company AIC Code provides the most appropriate information boards, it is conscious of the need to maintain continuity to shareholders.
The Companys policies on corporate and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient governance can be found on its website.
experience of the Company, industry and the markets is of The report on corporate governance describes how great benefit to shareholders.
The Board is of the opinion the principles of the AIC Code have been applied.
that long service does not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of investment Application of the AIC codes principles trusts where continuity and experience can significantly The Board attaches great importance to the matters benefit a board, a view supported by the AIC.
contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant requirements throughout the year under review.
The Boards policy is to ensure that a balance of skills and experience is maintained and regularly refreshed.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide and the Board believes that the Companys current practices are consistent in all material respects with the principles of the AIC Code.
Where non-compliance occurs, an explanation has been provided.
The Board will continue to observe the principles and recommendations set out in the AIC Code in future.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 53
