Audit Committee Report The constitution and composition of the Audit Committee Efficacy of Audit Process is given on page 56.
There have been no changes to the The Audit Committee monitored and evaluated the membership of the Committee over the financial year effectiveness of the auditors and any changes in the to 30 April 2014 other than Peter Dicks retiring as a terms of their appointment based on an assessment of Director on 2 September 2013. their performance, qualification, knowledge, expertise and resources.
The auditors independence was also The Committee is chaired by David Gamble and comprises considered along with other factors such as audit of all the independent Directors with the exception of the planning and accounting standards interpretations.
The Board is satisfied that at least This evaluation has been carried out throughout the one member of the Committee has sufficient recent and year by meetings held with the auditors, by review of relevant financial experience for the Committee to the audit process and by comments from the Investment discharge its functions effectively.
The experience of the Manager and others involved in the audit process.
members of the Committee can be assessed from the Directors biographies set out on page 46.
The auditors are provided with an opportunity to address the Committee without the Investment Manager present During the year the Committee met three times, with to raise any concerns or discuss any matters relating to all members attending each meeting, and considered the audit work and the cooperation of the Investment the following issues: Manager and others in providing any information and the appropriateness and any changes to the accounting the quality of that information including the timeliness policies of the Company including any judgements in responding to audit requests.
required by such policies and the reasonableness of such: Consideration of the Annual Report and Financial Statements the scope of the annual audit and agreement with the external auditors of the key areas of focus: The Committee performed its role through monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company the reports from the external auditors concerning and the system of accounting to ensure compliance with their audit of the annual financial statements of relevant and appropriate accounting standards.
The the Company: scope of the audit was agreed in advance with a focus the financial disclosures contained in the annual on areas of audit risk and the appropriate level of audit reports to shareholders: materiality.
The auditors reported on the results of the reports from the Investment Manager and auditors audit work to the Committee and highlighted any issue on the effectiveness of the system of internal financial which the audit work had discovered or the Committee control including the risk map: had previously identified as significant or material in the the independence and objectivity of the external context of the financial statements.
auditors and the level and nature of non-audit services provided by them: Consideration of the Semi-Annual the performance of the external auditors and the Report and Financial Statements level of fees charged for their services: and The Committee considered and reviewed the semiconsidered and agreed a policy for non-audit services annual report and financial statements which are not which may be provided by the auditors in line with the audited or reviewed by the external auditors to ensure FRC guidance.
that they reflected the accounting policies used in the annual financial statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 61 3 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued Non-Audit Work Overview of Risk The Audit Committee has discussed the specific non-audit The Committee has responsibility to assist the Board in activities provided by the auditors to ensure that none of maintaining an effective Internal Control environment.
these services would put the auditor in the position of The Company has established a Risk Map which seeks to auditing their own work.
The Committee has also carried identify, quantify, measure and mitigate as far as possible out a review of the non-audit services to satisfy itself that those risks.
The annual review of the risk map and the these are provided within the policy and have been effectiveness of the system of internal controls taking delivered in an efficient and cost effective way.
The Audit into account any issues was conducted by the Audit Committee believes the objectivity and independence of Committee assisted by the Investment Manager.
There the auditors is maintained, notwithstanding that nonwere no issues which arose during the course of the year audit work may be undertaken.
ended 30April2014 and up to the date of this report which were considered significant.
The Audit Committees policy on the provision of nonaudit services by the auditors is to ensure that there is a Representatives of the Investment Manager report to clear separation of audit work and non-audit work and the Committee and it receives reports on the quality and that the cost of any non-audit work is justified and is not effectiveness of the accounting records and management disproportionate to the audit fees to the extent that the information maintained on behalf of the Company.
The independence of the auditors would be compromised.
Committee also considers the internal controls and risk management systems applicable to the Company and The Committee reviewed the non-audit work and its key suppliers.
considered that PwC was an appropriate provider as this work related to the on-going VAT reclaim, which Appointment of Auditors and Tenure was launched as a class action by PwC, recovery of The Committee also considers by way of meetings withholding taxes on overseas investments and the and reports, the appointment, remuneration and work provision of IXBRL tagging.
The fees paid to  LLP in respect  LLP have provided audit of the audit of the annual financial statements amounted services to the Group from its incorporation in 1996 to 30,000 2013: 29,000.
The Company has also used to date.
The Audit Committee is aware that the European  LLP to give advice on taxation Union has proposed changes which will substantially matters in particular VAT recoverability and recovery of change the statutory audit of public interest enterprises overseas withholding taxes.
These taxation services are which includes UK listed companies on regulated provided by the London and Newcastle offices while the financial markets.
These changes are in addition to audit work is carried out by the Edinburgh office.
The fees guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and paid for the taxation advice services amounted to 6,000 the findings of the UK Competition Commission.
The Directors do not consider the provision Financial Reporting Council is currently revising its of this non-audit work to the Company affects the guidance.
In light of these changes and until the final independence of the auditors.
regulations and guidance has been issued, the Audit Committee has agreed to keep this matter under review before announcing its policy on such matters.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 62 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 The Committee having considered the above factors As a result of the work performed, the Committee has consider it appropriate to recommend to the Board and concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended shareholders that  LLP be 30 April 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and reappointed as Auditors at the AGM.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance,  LLP have agreed to offer business model and strategy, and has reported on these themselves for reappointment as auditors in accordance findings to the Board.
with section 487 2 of the Companies Act 2006 and a resolution requesting approval of their reappointment and to authorise the Directors to determine their David Gamble remuneration will be presented at the AGM.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Significant Issues in Relation 17 July 2014 to the Financial Statements There were no matters brought to the Audit Committees attention in respect of the 2014 audit, other than those discussed below, which were material or significant or which should be brought to shareholders attention.
The Audit Committee has considered the annual report and financial statements.
It has also considered matters referred to it by the Board, in particular the key performance indicators, the valuation process for both quoted and unquoted investments and the statement of Going Concern.
Conclusions in Respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The production and the audit of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements is a comprehensive process requiring input from a number of different contributors.
In order to reach a conclusion that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, the Board has requested that the Committee advise on whether it considers these criteria satisfied.
In so doing the Committee has given consideration to the following: the comprehensive control framework over the production of the Annual Report, including the verification processes in place to deal with the factual content: extensive levels of review are undertaken in the production process, by the management and the Committee: and a clean audit report from the auditors confirming their work and the effectiveness of internal control.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 63
