Provident Financial plc 90 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Risk advisory committee Accountability Risk advisory committee The board has ultimate responsibility for determining Members Secretary the nature and extent of the principal risks it is 1 Stuart Sinclair Chairman Ken Mullen willing to accept to achieve its strategic objectives Alison Halsey and for maintaining a sound system of risk Malcolm Le May management and internal controls, in accordance Manjit Wolstenholme with the Code.
Rob Anderson The risk advisory committee assists the board Attendees by invitation by monitoring and managing the risk management and internal control systems across the group Peter Crook and reports to the board.
Andrew Fisher David Mortlock Head of Audit David Merrett Director of Corporate Strategy and Risk 1 Appointed as Chairman on 1 March 2014 Governance in action During 2015, the risk advisory committee meetings and other board Risk management committee meetings will be held on a separate day to the board meeting Following the change in regulator from the FSA and OFT to the FCA in order to allow the committees sufficient time to consider and debate and PRA, the group has invested considerable time reviewing its risk those matters falling within their terms of reference.
Risk governance and oversight is particularly important for the group as At the outset the overall group statement on risk appetite was redefined.
the structure is different to most financial services groups and banks.
This sets out the maximum level of risk the group is prepared to accept.
Under the FCA regime, the divisions are FCA authorised and regulated, This statement focuses on the need to ensure that customers are at the and include approved persons for controlled functions and independent heart of what the business does, whilst maintaining the dividend and non-executive director oversight where appropriate.
However, Provident sufficient capital to protect against losses.
Divisional statements have Financial plc, as the holding company, is not authorised or regulated by the also been redefined to support the group statement.
FCA and there are no approved persons at group board level.
A project has It was also agreed that the risk advisory committee was best suited to been established to identify the appropriate corporate governance structure review the groups management of customer and conduct risk, as part of for the group.
In the meantime, both the group board under the Code and its wider review of risk management and monitoring of risk management the divisions under the FCA have responsibilities to maintain sound risk across the group.
As the overall group statement now includes customer management and internal control systems.
The group therefore operates and conduct risk, a principal purpose of the risk advisory committee is to a three lines of defence model: the first line involves the operational monitor the effectiveness of the divisions in establishing and maintaining identification, assessment and management of risk: the second line involves frameworks, policies and procedures to identify and manage customer independent review and challenge of first line actions against established and conduct risk.
This ensures that customers needs are at the heart of risk appetites: and the third line is independent assurance.
what the divisions and the group does and that there is a fair deal between Going into 2015, the risk advisory committee is confident that the group the divisions and their customers.
The risk advisory committee will also has an effectively designed risk management framework in place.
recommend to the board an overall group customer and conduct risk 2015 will continue to be a transition to FCA regulation as the group embeds appetite, culture and tone for approval.
the new approach to decisions and processes which have been enhanced The time allocated for risk advisory committee meetings has been to address customer and conduct issues.
The risk advisory committee significantly extended to allow a full review to be undertaken of each will monitor this transition closely and will report on progress in the divisions conduct risk framework and conduct risk governance policies.
2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 91 Risk advisory committee principal risks as required by the Code, and is are in accordance with the FRCs revised Role and responsibilities of designed to manage rather than eliminate the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the risk advisory committee risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
the FRCs Guidance and the FCAs Disclosure The risk advisory committees principal purposes The board believes the framework provides and Transparency Rules.
are to recommend to the board an overall reasonable, but not absolute assurance against Further insight into the groups principal risks, and customer and conduct risk appetite, culture and material misstatement or loss.
the management of these is on pages 93 to 96. tone for approval and to monitor the effectiveness The board provides oversight to help ensure of the divisions in establishing and maintaining Effectiveness that the group and its divisions maintain risk management frameworks, policies sound risk management and internal control The committee formally considered its and procedures.
Through the risk advisory committee, effectiveness in 2014.
On the basis of the internal In addition to the responsibilities mentioned it reviews the assessment of risks and the risk board and committee evaluation undertaken, the above, the committee is also responsible for: management framework.
overall view was that it was working effectively Considering the nature and extent of the and no significant actions were required.
A consistently applied method is used at divisional risks facing the group, the likelihood of risks and group level to identify the key risks that materialising and the groups ability to reduce could have a significant impact on the ability of the incidence and the impact of the risks the group to achieve its objectives.
Risk owners which do materialise: within the divisions and the corporate office are Reviewing the groups capability to identify identified and given responsibility for ensuring and manage new risk types, and keeping under actions are implemented with appropriate review review the effectiveness of the groups internal dates.
The risk registers are reviewed by the risk control systems and risk management systems advisory group and updated at least quarterly.
in conjunction with the audit committee: The risk advisory committee is responsible Risk advisory committee for monitoring the key metrics identified by Reviewing the groups business continuity all divisions and the corporate office in the key items in 2014 plans: and management of risk and ensures in particular Notifying the board of any changes in the that customer outcomes remain central to the Updated terms of reference.
status and control of risks.
JAN Reviewed and approved the revised group The board are satisfied that the companys risk Update on 2014 activities risk appetite framework, risk management management and internal control systems are framework and risk profile.
During 2014, the risk advisory committee has: effective and were effective throughout 2014 Actioned the recommendations of the and up to 24 February 2015.
The board does this Updated its terms of reference and the group independent board evaluation in 2013. through the audit committee, which carries out risk management framework to explicitly Reviewed and updated the risk processes for new territories.
an annual review and issues an opinion on risk include customer and conduct risk, to reflect Reviewed and identified major issues and control effectiveness.
This review confirms the separation of risk and audit and to reflect in the changing regulatory and political that the risk management and internal control the new risk assessment descriptions: environment.
systems effectively support and manage the Andrew Fisher stepped down as member Appointed a new chairman: and achievement of the overall group objectives and of the committee, in line with best practice.
provide suitable protection of the groups assets, Undertaken the activities set out in the reputation and sustainability.
A strong risk and ICAAP reviewed and agreed to recommend calendar on the right.
control culture was identified in all divisions and JUL Conduct risk management approach Statement on internal controls areas where improvements could be made were tabled, discussed and noted.
An action plan has been established to Our risk management framework is firmly was agreed to be added to the terms of reference of the risk advisory committee ensure that the systems and processes continue embedded within our management and meetings were increased to at least four a to evolve as the regulatory environment in which governance processes, and incorporates the year and the time allocated to each meeting the group operates continues to change.
process detailed in the diagram on page 92. was significantly increased.
This risk management framework has been The group finance function establishes the in operation throughout 2014 and continues Reviewed key group risks.
process and timetable for financial reporting to operate up to the date of approval of this Vanquis Bank and CCD conduct risk, OCT and consolidation activities and identifies and framework and appetite was tabled, annual report.
This framework is the process approves changes to accounting and financial discussed and noted.
by which compliance with laws and regulations, reporting standards.
Post-acquisition action plan for the reliability of financial reporting and the Moneybarn discussed.
The board believes the process and the key effectiveness and efficiency of operations Vanquis Banks and CCDs CROs attended elements of the internal control system, including the committee for the first time.
The framework assists in the in particular the financial reporting processes, identification, evaluation, and management of Provident Financial plc 92 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Risk advisory committee continued Internal control Internal audit Whistleblowing Divisional boards Regularly reviews the adequacy of internal controls Whistleblowing policies are in place in each of the groups divisions.
The group The divisional boards including financial, operational and compliance controls is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness and and their committees are in conjunction with the external auditor and reports to the accountability and employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under responsible for managing risk advisory group, risk advisory committee and audit these policies either by contacting a manager or telephoning a dedicated external the divisional risks and committee.
An annual programme of work which targets helpline, in confidence.
During 2014, this external helpline was operational preparing divisional risk and reports on higher-risk areas is carried out by the throughout the group and procedures are in place to ensure issues raised registers for review by group internal audit function.
The operation of internal are addressed in a confidential manner.
The Company Secretary is required the risk advisory group financial controls is monitored by regular management to report to the audit committee in December each year on the integrity of who report to the risk reviews, including a requirement for each division to these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2014, only one issue which was human resources related was raised via this system and this was appropriately responded to through the groups human resources function.
New whistleblowing legislation in the Republic of Ireland ROI has required CCD to review and update its whistleblowing procedures for ROI and ensure that employees in ROI are aware of the availability of the external helpline.
Risk advisory committee Risk advisory group Independent of the business units and chaired Formally reviews the divisional risk by a non-executive director of the board.
registers four times a year, and reports Responsible for ensuring that there is an to the risk advisory committee.
appropriate risk management framework embedded across the group.
The board Reviews the framework annually to ensure that it remains fit for purpose and complies with relevant requirements.
Monthly management accounts Corporate policies Biannual budget process Finance forum Monthly management accounts are The board requires the divisions and the In December each year, the board A six-weekly finance forum, chaired by prepared comparing actual trading corporate office to operate in accordance approves detailed budgets and cash the Finance Director and attended by results by division to budget and the prior with the corporate policies and to flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also divisional finance directors and senior year.
Regulatory capital levels, funding certify compliance on a biannual basis.
approves outline projections for the finance management including the heads liquidity and economic trends are also This includes confirmation of compliance subsequent four years.
An update to the of tax, audit, treasury and risk, reviews reported monthly.
A rolling forecast and any suggestions for improvements.
budget is approved in June each year.
and provides oversight of the key financial of the full year outturn is produced as This ensures that the process remains matters of the group.
part of the management accounts pack.
dynamic and that the divisions and Management accounts are distributed corporate office are operating at the to the executive directors and senior highest level.
The corporate policies management team on a monthly basis were last updated in July 2014. and are distributed to the board for each board meeting.
