Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 97 Audit committee and auditor Annual statement by the Audit committee chairman of the audit committee Members Secretary Following my appointment as chairman of the audit 1 Alison Halsey Chairman Ken Mullen committee on 1 March 2014, I am delighted to be Malcolm Le May presenting the audit committee report to you as Stuart Sinclair a separate report in accordance with the FRCs Rob Anderson Guidance and the Financial Reporting Laboratorys Reporting of Audit Committees guidance.
Attendees by invitation Manjit Wolstenholme Peter Crook I ntegrity, quality and challenge Andrew Fisher remain the key areas of focus for Gary Thompson Group Financial Controller the committee in our overriding David Mortlock Head of Audit aim to protect shareholders interests.
Deloitte LLP External auditor Alison Halsey Audit committee chairman 1 Appointed as Chairman on 1 March 2014.
Judgement is applied as to the appropriate point Considered the findings within the report in Update on 2014 activities at which receivables are impaired and whether light of current trading performance, expected During the year the committee continued to past payment performance provides a reasonable future performance and the potential benefit monitor the integrity of the financial statements guide as to the collectability of the current of operational initiatives in the business: and of the group including, in particular, the receivables book.
Accordingly, this is a primary annual and half yearly reports and the interim Considered the work performed by the source of audit effort for the groups external management statements.
internal audit function on information auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
technology controls and operational controls Significant issues and areas In order to assess the appropriateness of the such as cash collections, credit management judgements applied, management produce a and arrears management.
of judgement considered by detailed report for both the audit committee the audit committee Impairment of receivables at and the external auditor setting out: i the The following significant issues and areas of assumptions underpinning the receivables Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn judgement were considered by the committee valuation: and ii a scenario analysis comparing Receivables are impaired in Vanquis in relation to the 2014 Annual Report and the receivables valuation with alternative Bank and Moneybarn when one or more Financial Statements: valuations based upon various forecasts of contractual monthly payment has been future cash collections, including prior year missed.
The impairment provision is calculated Impairment of receivables within performance, current performance and using models which use historical payment the Consumer Credit Division CCD budget performance.
performance to generate the estimated Receivables are impaired in CCD when the amount and timing of future cash flows from In assessing the adequacy of CCDs impairment cumulative amount of two or more contractual each arrears stage.
Management update the provisions, the committee: weekly payments have been missed in the methodology monthly to ensure the assumptions previous 12 weeks.
Impairment is calculated Reviewed managements report and challenged accurately take account of the current economic using models which use historical payment management on the results and judgements environment, product mix and recent customer performance to generate the estimated amount used in the test: payment performance.
and timing of future cash flows from each Considered the work performed by Deloitte arrears stage.
on validating the data used in the testing performed by management and their challenge of the assumptions used: Provident Financial plc 98 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Audit committee and auditor continued Judgement is applied on whether past payment Management apply judgement in: i deriving the Input which is provided by senior management performance is a good indication of how a forecast cash flows from broker relationships from each division and the corporate function customer may pay in the future.
Accordingly, this by extracting them from Moneybarns budget: and the process of review, evaluation and is a primary source of focus for Deloitte during ii establishing the appropriate discount rate to verification to ensure balance, accuracy the audit process.
apply to forecast cash flows: and iii calculating and consistency: the estimated useful life of broker relationships In assessing the adequacy of Vanquis Banks The review conducted by external advisors of 10 years.
and Moneybarns impairment provisions, appointed to advise on best practice: the committee: In assessing the reasonableness of the valuation The regular review of the internal audit activity of the acquisition intangible asset, the committee Considered the work performed by Deloitte reports which are presented at committee considered a detailed paper produced by on validating the data used and their challenge meetings and the opportunity to meet the management on the valuation methodology.
of the assumptions used by management: external auditor without the executive directors In addition, the committee also considered the or members of the senior management team Considered the findings in light of current work performed by Deloitte and their views on being present: trading performance and expected the appropriateness of the assumptions used future performance: by management.
The meetings of the committee held to review and consider the draft Annual Report and Considered the work performed by the internal Taxation Financial Statements in advance of the final audit function on information technology sign-off: and The group provides for tax liabilities based on an controls and operational controls such as cash assessment of the probability of such liabilities collections, credit management and arrears The final sign-off process by the board falling due.
Judgement is applied to determine management: and of directors.
the quantum of such liabilities and the probability Considered the review performed by the This assessment was underpinned by of them occurring.
The committee considers Vanquis Bank audit committee on the Vanquis the following: managements assessment of the likelihood and Bank impairment provisions.
quantum of any potential liability and the views Key judgement papers prepared by and work performed by Deloitte in considering the management covering impairment of Retirement benefit asset reasonableness of the assessment carried out.
receivables across the group, but specifically The valuation of the retirement benefit asset is at CCD, the valuation of acquisition intangibles Fair, balanced and understandable dependent upon a series of assumptions.
The key and growing concern which were carefully assumptions are the discount rate, inflation rates A specific area of focus, discussion and oversight reviewed and challenged by the committee and mortality rates used to calculate the present for the committee throughout 2014 has been with the assistance of the external auditor who value of future liabilities.
the requirement to provide the board with an also fully analysed the papers as part of the assurance that the content of the Annual Report year-end process: Judgement is applied in formulating each of the and Financial Statements 2014, taken as a whole, assumptions used in calculating the retirement Comprehensive guidance issued to all is fair, balanced and understandable and provides benefit asset.
The committee reviewed the contributors involved in the preparation of the the necessary information for shareholders to advice of the companys external actuary, Annual Report and Financial Statements at assess the groups position and performance, Towers Watson, who propose the appropriate all levels: business model and strategy.
assumptions and calculate the valuation of The fact that the risks reflected the issues the retirement benefit asset.
In addition, the In justifying this statement the committee which were of concern to the committee: committee considered the work performed by considered the robust process which operated Deloitte and their views on the suitable ranges in creating the Annual Report and Financial A verification process dealing with the factual of assumptions based on their experience.
Statements in 2014 including: content of various aspects of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: The full and effective disclosure by the divisions Valuation of acquisition of their customer and conduct risk and the Comprehensive reviews undertaken at intangible asset review undertaken by the risk advisory different levels in the group that aim to ensure The valuation of the broker relationship intangible committee and the committee: consistency and overall balance: and asset on the acquisition of Moneybarn has been The early discussion by the board which Comprehensive review by the senior calculated based on the estimated cash flows enabled it, and the committee, to provide input management team.
associated with the business generated from into the overall messages and tone of the Moneybarns broker relationships discounted Annual Report and Financial Statements: over their expected useful life.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 99 Audit committee and auditor continued In accordance with best practice and guidance Composition of the committee External auditor issued by the FRC, the committee will continue The other members of the committee during The committee considers the reappointment to review the qualification, expertise, resources 2014, Rob Anderson, Malcolm Le May and Stuart of the external auditor, including the rotation of and independence of the external auditor and the Sinclair, all have a wide range of business and the audit partner, annually.
This also includes effectiveness of the audit process during the next financial experience which is evidenced by their an assessment of the external auditors financial year.
biographical summaries on pages 78 and 79. independence and an assessment of the The committee has adopted a policy on the Malcolm Le May and I joined the committee on performance in the previous year, taking into appointment of staff from the external auditor 1 January 2014 and I took over chairmanship account detailed feedback from directors and to positions within the various group finance of the committee on 1 March 2014.
Both Malcolm senior management across the group.
It grades appointments into four and I have considerable recent and relevant The external auditor is required to rotate the categories and sets out the approvals required.
business and financial experience as evidenced audit partner responsible for the group audit Neither a partner of the audit firm who has acted by our biographical details set out on pages every five years.
The current lead audit partner as engagement partner, the quality review partner, 78 and 79. has been in place for three years.
The group other key audit partners or partners in the chain carried out a rigorous audit tender in June 2012 Internal audit of command, nor a senior member of the audit and as a result of the tender, Deloitte replaced engagement team, may be employed as Group The group operates an in-house internal audit  LLP as the groups Finance Director, Group Financial Controller or function which is managed by the group external auditor.
Head of Audit with specialist services provided The committee will continue to assess the by third-party consultants where necessary.
At its February and July meetings, the committee performance of the external auditor on an ongoing The internal audit function also reports to the had a separate session with the external auditor basis to ensure that they are satisfied with the committee which helps to ensure the functions without any executive director or employee of quality of the services provided.
In accordance independence from group management.
the company or group being present.
This gives with the Code, the external audit contract will The committee reviews regular reports on the members of the committee the opportunity to be put out to tender at least every 10 years.
activity of this function and I also meet separately raise any issues, including any issues on the with the Head of Audit on a quarterly basis.
interim and final results of the group, directly with the external auditor.
The role of the committee Non-audit work The company has a formal policy on the use General Specific of the auditor for non-audit work.
This policy is reviewed annually.
The primary function of the committee is The committee is also specifically to assist the board in fulfilling its oversight responsible for: The award of non-audit work to the auditor responsibilities by reviewing the financial is managed in order to ensure that the auditor All matters relating to the appointment and statements of the group and other financial is able to conduct an independent audit and reappointment of the external auditor, the information before publication.
In addition, is perceived to be independent by the groups auditors remuneration and the policy on the the committee also reviews: shareholders and other stakeholders.
supply of non-audit services to the company The systems of internal financial, operational by the external auditor: The performance of non-audit work by the and compliance controls on a continuing external auditor is monitored and work is Approving the internal audit plan annually: basis, and the arrangements and procedures awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, in place to deal with whistleblowing, fraud Keeping under review the effectiveness of skills or experience, the auditor is clearly to be and bribery: and the groups system of internal controls by preferred over alternative suppliers.
considering internal audit activity reports at The accounting and financial reporting The group maintains an active relationship with at each meeting and reporting to the board on processes, along with the roles and least two other professional advisors.
The committee also reviewed effectiveness of both the internal audit and cost of all non-audit work awarded to the and approved the statement set out on page function and the external auditor.
groups external auditor for the period since the 91 concerning internal controls and risk last meeting and for the year to date is reported The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and management: and at each meeting of the committee, together with approving the Annual Report and Financial Reviewing and approving the register of an explanation as to why the auditor was the Statements remains with the board.
benefits offered to directors in accordance preferred supplier.
with the companys code of practice on benefits.
Provident Financial plc 100 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Audit committee and auditor continued No information technology, remuneration, Fees paid to Deloitte for non-audit work during Audit committee key items recruitment, valuation or general consultancy the year amounted to 823,000 2013: 93,000 work may be awarded to the auditor without my comprising 60,000 for the group interim review, in 2014 prior written approval and such approval is only 49,000 for the review of profits for regulatory given in exceptional circumstances.
I am required reporting purposes, 568,000 for transactional Review of CCD receivables valuation.
to approve in advance any single award of nondue diligence advice and 146,000 for agreed Review and approval of the going concern FEB audit work with an aggregate cost of 250,000 or upon procedures work throughout the year.
paper which confirmed it was appropriate to prepare the Annual Report and Financial more.
The auditor may not perform internal audit Statements for year ended 31 December Effectiveness work.
External specialist resource for the internal 2013 on a going concern basis.
audit function is provided by KPMG LLP.
The committee formally considered its Review of full year results.
This was undertaken as Discussion with the external auditor Where Deloitte has been used in 2014 for without any executive director or part of the board evaluation.
Each director was non-audit work under the terms of this employee present.
able to comment and rate various aspects of policy, prior approval was obtained from the Review of statement on Internal Controls.
the committees role by responding to a series committee.
On each occasion the committee Independence of external auditor discussed.
of questions relating to the performance of the sought confirmation that Deloittes objectivity Recommendation to the board regarding committee contained in the internal board and reappointment of external auditor.
and independence would be safeguarded.
On the basis Consideration of a new reporting structure A paper requesting approval was presented to for Vanquis Bank and group internal of the evaluation undertaken, the overall view the committee which set out details of Deloittes audit function.
was that the committee was operating efficiently internal controls which have been designed and effectively.
to ensure independence and objectivity and a Review of CCD receivables valuation.
confirmation that Deloitte had the knowledge, Alison Halsey Review and approval of the going concern JUL Chairman of the audit committee skills and experience to carry out the work in paper which confirmed it was appropriate 24 February 2015 to prepare the interim results for the six preference to any other supplier.
months ended 30 June 2014 on a going concern basis.
During the year, the committee regularly Review of interim results.
considered a schedule of audit and non-audit Discussion with the external auditor work carried out by Deloitte.
This fell broadly without any executive director or into four categories: fees payable for the audit of employee present.
the parent company and consolidated financial Review of effectiveness of external auditor.
statements: audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation: other services pursuant Review of the external auditors planning report for forthcoming year end.
to legislation: and tax services.
OCT Consideration of a report on the effectiveness of the controls in CCDs central collections department.
Review and approval of the 2015 internal audit plan.
Review and approval of the organisation and reporting structure for the group and Vanquis Bank internal audit functions.
Proposed internal audit plan for 2015 approved.
DEC Review of the annual report on external whistleblowing activity.
Review of register of benefits received by directors.
Review of performance and effectiveness of the committee.
Draft Internal Audit Charter agreed in principle.
External review of the internal audit function approved and agreed.
Review of CCD central collections department strategy.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 101 Nomination committee The nomination committee comprises all of the Nomination committee non-executive directors and is chaired by Manjit Members Secretary Wolstenholme, the Chairman.
The Chief Executive attends all meetings by invitation.
The committee Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman Ken Mullen meets at least once a year.
Alison Halsey The committee intends to develop its succession Malcolm Le May planning process which will be extended to Rob Anderson include an insight into the opportunities for certain Stuart Sinclair high potential individuals.
The committee has Attendees by invitation commissioned a report with a view to creating 1 a more extensive succession plan which is fit Peter Crook for purpose.
1 Ceased to be a member from 1 January 2014.
Role and responsibilities Update on 2014 activities S uccession planning has Regularly reviews the structure, size and Details of the committees activities during the been recognised as a key composition including skills, knowledge, year are set out in the calendar on page 102. experience and diversity of the board, priority for 2015 as the and makes recommendations for Diversity group continues to grow change to the board to ensure it remains The group recognises the importance of diversity, appropriately refreshed: including gender diversity, at all levels of the and expand, particularly group, as well as at board level.
The nomination Gives full consideration to the succession committee and the group as a whole is committed following its recent planning for directors and the senior to increasing diversity across our operations management team which ensures acquisition.
and supporting the development and promotion that succession is managed smoothly of talented individuals, regardless of gender, Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman and effectively: nationality and ethnic background.
The board is Keeps under review the leadership needs of the supportive of the recommendations contained organisation, both executive and non-executive, in Lord Davies report Women on Boards for with a view to ensuring the continued ability female board representation to increase to of the organisation to compete effectively in 25% by the end of 2015 and is compliant with the marketplace: this recommendation.
Identification and nomination of candidates for approval by the board to fill board vacancies: Evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the board before any appointments and the preparation of a description of the role and the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The committee considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender: and Reviews the results of the board performance evaluation process.
Provident Financial plc 102 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Nomination committee continued The board has had 29% female representation In support of our policy on diversity, we intend The board since last years annual report.
The board uses to report annually on the following objectives the nomination committee to ensure that its and initiatives that promote gender and other composition is diverse, particularly in terms forms of diversity amongst our board and 1 Male 71% 2 of different backgrounds and experience as senior management: this brings a variety of perspectives, skills, and We will consider candidates for appointment 2 Female 29% knowledge to the board.
For more information 1 as non-executive directors from a wider pool, about the boards composition, see page 82. including those with little or no listed company We remain committed to at least maintaining board experience: this level of female representation in the Overall senior management We will only engage executive search firms medium term, whilst ensuring that diversity in who have signed up to the voluntary Code its broadest sense remains a key feature of the of Conduct on gender diversity and best 1 Male 70% board.
The nomination committee will continue 2 practice: and to recommend appointments to the board based on merit.
The board remains committed We will ensure the topic of diversity is raised 2 Female 30% 1 to strengthening the pipeline of senior female during every board evaluation.
executives within the business and has taken steps to ensure that there are no barriers to Succession planning women succeeding at the highest levels within As discussed above, the group remains Group nationality the group.
committed to maintaining and improving, where necessary, its level of female representation, The group believes that diversity amongst Geographical mix of directors and senior whilst ensuring that the right skills and experience directors contributes towards a high performing management across the group and divisions.
The committee intends to and effective board.
The board works hard to support the groups diversity policy within its ensure that it is able to recruit directors from succession planning by strengthening its senior different backgrounds, with diverse experience, female management within the business over perspectives, personalities, skills and knowledge.
Last year, we reported that the company was The nomination committee will continue its work committed to achieving a target of 25% women of ensuring there are appropriate succession within the wider senior management group by plans in place and a mix of skills amongst both 2015.
We have made good progress in terms the executive and non-executive directors.
of gender diversity within the wider senior The committee keeps under review a detailed Nomination committee key management group and we are happy to report succession plan for the executive directors, that as at 31 December 2014, 30% of the groups items in 2014 the Chairman and the persons discharging senior management are female.
Below board level, The board, through the nomination committee, Reviewed the medium term succession succession planning safeguards the pipeline plan provided by an external evaluator as is committed to increasing diversity across of talented individuals within the group who 2014 part of the 2013 external board evaluation: the group.
Despite the progress that has been are capable and have potential to succeed the Identified and discussed potential made, the committee is conscious that, whilst executive directors and other members of the successors for executive directors and divisional managing directors: the group board has 29% female representation, senior management team in the short, medium Tasked the Chief Executive with preparing the divisional boards are considerably lacking in and long term.
a report on the future of the group: and female representation.
20% of the CCD board are The Chief Executive has been tasked with Recognised that succession planning in female, whilst no females sit on the Vanquis Bank 2015 is a key priority for the development preparing a report on the future of the group, or Moneybarn boards.
The committee intends to of the group.
reflecting its new composition, for review by the look at this over the course of 2015 with a view board in February 2015 and by the committee in to increasing female representation, where it May 2015.
This report will identify the potential can, whilst continuing to consider appointments successors for senior management positions, on merit.
taking into account gender, the talent pool across the group and possible recruitment.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 103 Nomination committee continued A programme of work has also been developed In line with the Code, an executive director will be for 2015 which will establish talent management permitted to hold one non-executive directorship and succession planning on a group-wide basis.
in a FTSE 100 company and to retain the The key objectives of the programme are: fees from that appointment provided that the board considers that this will not adversely The creation of a talent map of all divisions affect their executive responsibilities.
The board and the corporate office: would not permit an executive director to take A talent review of potential candidates on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
for succession purposes: and Any request for an exception to this policy is considered on its merits.
A talent assessment of those potential candidates.
Effectiveness At its meeting in February 2015 the committee Board composition formally considered its effectiveness in 2014, and As the board continues to work towards on the basis of the internal board and committee securing FCA authorisation for each division, the evaluation undertaken, the overall view was that committee will ensure that the board composition the committee was working effectively.
retains an appropriately balanced range of skills, Manjit Wolstenholme experience and technical ability so that the group Chairman of the nomination committee is well placed to achieve its objectives and longer 24 February 2015 term strategy in the new regulatory environment.
During the year, the composition of the committees was refreshed and details are contained on page 85.
Policy on board appointments The boards policy on other directorships is designed to ensure that all directors remain able to discharge their responsibilities to the company.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors state that any proposed appointment to the board of another company will require the prior approval of the board.
The companys policy is that a non-executive director should have sufficient time to fulfil their duties to the company, including, where appropriate, chairing a committee.
The board will consider all requests for permission for other directorships carefully, subject to the following principles: A non-executive director would not be expected to hold more than four other material non-executive directorships: and If a non-executive director holds an executive role in a FTSE 350 company, they would not be expected to hold more than two other material non-executive directorships.
