Provident Financial plc 80 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Leadership This report looks at board members, their role, recommendation of final dividends: approval Collective and effective their performance and their oversight.
It also looks of all major transactions: approval of the group at their induction, succession, independence, budget and financial results: approval of the leadership ensures the and effectiveness.
Vanquis Bank controls required by the PRA safety delivery of the groups and soundness objectives: and the annual review The principal responsibility of the board is to of the effectiveness of the groups system of strategy and maintaining promote the long-term success of the group in internal control.
a manner consistent with its culture, values and strong governance standards and so create and deliver sustainable The board reviews the terms of reference for shareholder value.
The board leads and provides itself and its committees annually.
It last updated practices is a key board direction by setting the strategy and overseeing its terms of reference and those of its committees responsibility in support its implementation by management.
The full formal schedule of seeks to ensure that the right balance is achieved matters reserved to the board and each of its of this goal.
between the ultimate focus on long-term growth committees can be found on the groups website Manjit Wolstenholme and the delivery by management of its short-term at www.
In setting and monitoring the execution To assist the board in carrying out its functions of the groups strategy, consideration is given to and to ensure that there is independent oversight the impact that those decisions will have on the of internal controls and risk management, the groups obligations to various stakeholders, such board delegates certain responsibilities to its five as shareholders, employees, suppliers and the principal committees as shown in the diagram community in which it operates as a whole.
Membership of these committees consists Specific key decisions and matters have been primarily of the independent non-executive reserved for approval by the board and are set directors and, in some cases, the Chairman, with out in its terms of reference.
These include: the exception of the executive committee which the establishment of, and changes to, the consists of the executive directors only.
group strategy: determination of interim and Governance framework Audit committee See pages 97 to 100 for more information.
Group board Risk advisory committee See pages 90 to 92 for more information.
Executive committee Comprises the two executive directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Remuneration committee The committee deals with matters relating See pages 116 and 117 for more information.
to the general running of the group.
Nomination committee See pages 101 to 103 for more information.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 81 Leadership The chairmen of each board committee reports Details of the work of the remuneration In 2014, the Director of Corporate Affairs, the to the board on the matters discussed at the committee together with the Annual Statement managing directors and commercial directors of committee meetings.
from the remuneration committee chairman, Vanquis Bank and the Consumer Credit Division the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report CCD, the Operations Director of the home credit Identification and management of risk is central to on Remuneration, are set out in the directors business of CCD and the Finance Director of the creation of long-term shareholder value and remuneration report, on pages 109 to 128.
Vanquis Bank also attended and were involved is overseen by the risk advisory committee on in the discussions on market developments behalf of the board.
The risk advisory committee The right team and competitive threats.
Further, for the first considers the nature and extent of the risks facing time external speakers were also in attendance.
The board held 12 meetings in 2014. the group, keeps them under review, including The agenda included: Individual director attendance is set out in the the framework to mitigate such risks and notifies table below.
the board of changes to the status and control A discussion on the general macro-economic of risks.
environment and the non-standard credit The board is responsible for the establishment market in which the group operates: of and changes to the group strategy.
As part of In addition, the group has detailed corporate that process and, as in previous years, an annual policies which are explained on pages 77 and 92 An analysis of the key characteristics of two-day corporate planning conference CPC of this report.
On a day-to-day basis, the divisions non-standard credit consumers: was held away from the office to review and and the corporate office team have responsibility An overview of the available methods to develop the groups strategy.
The CPC is attended for the implementation of the corporate policies capture and use customer and operational data: by all board members, the General Counsel and and the group executive committee is responsible Company Secretary, the Director of Corporate for the general oversight of this process.
A synopsis of what regulatory changes mean Strategy and Risk and other members of senior for market structure, particularly in the subDetailed reports on the activities of the risk management where appropriate.
prime and high-cost short-term credit sectors: advisory committee, audit committee and nomination committee are set out in this report A facilitated discussion on payment on pages 90, 97 and 101 respectively.
technologies and new types of competitors from outside the lending sector: and A review of the human resources capabilities within the group.
Attendance at board and committee meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk advisory Percentage Board committee committee committee committee attended Total number of meetings in 2014 12 6 1 4 3 100% Manjit Wolstenholme 12 1 3 100% Peter Crook 12 100% Andrew Fisher 12 100% Malcolm Le May 12 6 1 4 3 100% Rob Anderson 12 6 1 4 3 100% Alison Halsey 12 6 1 4 3 100% Stuart Sinclair 11 6 1 4 3 96% Provident Financial plc 82 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Leadership continued Key board discussions and actions in 2014 Board composition Consideration of the board evaluation report Review and approval of the decision to and discussion of the recommendations.
expand the terms of reference of the risk JUL JAN advisory committee to include conduct risk.
Review of the talent and succession planning report.
Approval of due diligence reports for the proposed acquisition of Moneybarn.
Approval of the groups ICAAP.
Consideration of potential acquisition opportunities.
FEB Approval of the acquisition of Moneybarn, Review of non-executive directors fees.
including the sale and purchase agreement.
Review and approval of changes in AUG committee chairmanship.
Consideration and approval of actions arising Review of due diligence reports in respect from discussions with the Central Bank NOV of a potential acquisition.
of Ireland in respect of CCD.
MAY Review of the internal board evaluation.
Review of potential acquisition opportunities.
Review and approval of the 2015 budget DEC Executive director Review of the groups contingency plans and profit plan 20152019.
JUN to address a cyber attack.
Review and approval of the funding plan Non-executive director Review and approval of the 2014 20152019.
Review and approval of the response to the PRA in order to finalise the groups ICAAP.
At each main meeting Discuss: Strategic matters Acquisition opportunities Trading results and key performance indicators KPIs Management accounts and financial commentary Operational reports from each division Treasury matters Legal, company secretarial and regulatory matters Board committee matters Investor relations and shareholder feedback Corporate affairs Review: Minutes of previous meetings Minutes of the meetings of the executive committee The implementation of actions agreed at previous meetings Sector experience Tenure 3 1 Financial services 72% 1 03 years 43% 2 1 3 2 Retail 14% 2 46 years 14% 1 3 Other 14% 3 6 years 43% 2 Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 83 Leadership continued The board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
Their responsibilities are summarised in the table below.
The names of the directors and their full biographical details, including the skills and experience they each bring to the board, can be found on pages 78 and 79.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the group as the Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the board, while the Chief Executive manages and leads the businesses.
Roles The Chairman Chairs the board, the nomination committee and the AGM.
Manjit Wolstenholme is also a non-executive director of Future plc, The Unite Group plc and Aviva Investors Holding Limited.
Sets the board meeting agendas with the Chief Executive to ensure These appointments involve no more than one and a half days work that the board devotes its time and attention to the right matters.
per week and there have been no material changes in her other Builds an effective board.
Facilitates and encourages active engagement and appropriate challenge by all directors.
Ensures the board receives timely and relevant information and is kept advised of key developments.
The Responsible for the day to day management, leadership and direction Peter Crook also chairs the divisional boards of Vanquis Bank, Chief Executive of the group and the executive management team in accordance CCD and Moneybarn.
with the strategy and long-term objectives approved by the board.
Chairs the executive committee and makes decisions on matters affecting the operation, performance and strategy of the groups businesses, with the exception of those matters reserved to the board.
Responsible for overseeing the delivery of the corporate social responsibilities of the group.
Executive Responsible for all matters affecting the performance of the group.
Peter Crook and Andrew Fisher comprise the executive committee directors which deals with matters relating to the running of the group other Responsible for implementation of strategy, policies, budgets and than those reserved to the board and the other committees.
the financial performance of the group.
Provide specialist knowledge and experience to the board.
Responsible for the successful leadership and management of risk and finance functions across the group.
Non-executive Provide independent and constructive challenge.
The non-executive directors have a range of recent and relevant directors financial services, corporate governance and consumer experience Provide governance through participation in and chairmanship as detailed on pages 78 and 79. of the board committees.
They are appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to Provide an external focus to the boards discussions, particularly confirmation by shareholders.
This three-year period may be extended with regard to strategy and business development.
for a further three years and, in exceptional cases, further extended, Review management performance.
subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the companys registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Rob Andersons term of appointment has been extended for an additional three years, subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
Senior Is available for shareholders if they have any concerns which contact Malcolm Le May assumed the role of SID on 1 January 2014.
He was Independent through the normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
selected for this role on account of his extensive experience in the Director SID financial services sector and his corporate finance background.
Acts as a sounding board for the other directors and confidante for the Chairman.
Is a conduit, as required, for the views of the other non-executive directors on the performance of the Chairman.
Conducts the Chairmans annual perfomance evaluation.
Company Responsible to the board.
All directors are able to consult with Ken Mullen, who is also secretary Secretary to all of the board committees.
Provides comprehensive practical support and guidance to directors, both as individuals and collectively.
There is also a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice relating to the performance of any Particular emphasis on supporting the non-executive directors in aspect of their duties at the companys expense, which can be facilitated maintaining the highest standards of probity and corporate governance.
Responsible for communicating with shareholders, as appropriate, The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter and ensuring that due regard is paid to their interests.
