Governance Board committee reports Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 85 Nomination Committee report Role and responsibilities strategicobjectives.
TheCommitteealso  The role and responsibilities of the , either  Committee are set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed by  retirements.
TheCommitteereviewed the Committee and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
The terms  , takinginto of reference can be found on the Companys website.
The Committees  outlinedpreviously, aswellasthelevelof responsibilities include keeping under review the composition of the .
 Board, identifying and nominating candidates for approval by the Board , Paul Manduca  to fill any vacancies, evaluating the Chairman of the independence of the non-executive .
Nomination Committee directors and authorising actual or Members potential conflicts of interest.
Conflicts of interest and independence PaulManduca Chairman HowardDavies Governance  Committeetoconsider, andwhere AnnGodbehere PhilipRemnant , necessaryauthorise, anyactualorpotential  LordTurnbull  .
 contributetomeetings, aswastheGroup Committee effectiveness HRDirector.
 How the Committee discharged its responsibilities  .
Board composition and   succession planning  .
thebalanceofskills, experienceand   Key areas of review in 2014 Considering the Conducting the annual effectiveness of the review of the conflictscomposition of Board of-interest register and Committees Board Conflicts Considering potential Evaluating the Boards composition of interest conflicts of interest diversity including for existing directors experience, perspective and individuals and knowledge recommended to the Board for appointment as directors Succession planning Considering the future retirement of non-executive directors Considering the overall skills and knowledge required to support strategic goals of the Group 86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Governance Board committee reports continued Independence Tenure of non-executive directors Diversity  operations,  Chairman 6% 0 3 years 62%  Executive 4 6 years 13% , withdiverse directors 44% experience, .
This Non-executive  directors 50% 7 9 years 25%   internationalGroup.
 Government and or Female 19% regulatory 13% diversity,  Insurance 44% .
