80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Governance Group governance The Board is responsible for establishing a system of internal control and for reviewing Summary of Group Risk Framework its effectiveness.
To achieve this, the Board has established a framework of internal Sets out the Group-wide approach to risk management and the key risk provisions which support governance which is based on full compliance with the Groups internal, statutory and regulatory requirements in this area accountability and transparency across all parts of the Group.
Establishes the six key components of the framework which are governance, appetite, policies, culture, processes, and definition and categorisation Framework The framework of internal governance centres on clear delegated authorities, Risk policies ensuring there is appropriate Board oversight and control of important There are five Group Risk Policies covering credit, insurance, liquidity, market and decisions and the day-to-day business operational risks is managed effectively.
The Group Governance Manual sets The Group Risk Framework is supported by the Group Dealing Controls Policy, Group Outsourcing out the policies and processes by which the and Third-Party Supply Policy and Groupwide Tax Risk Management Framework Group operates within the framework and it takes account of relevant statutory, regulatory and governance matters.
Internal control standards and guidance also support the Group Risk Framework The Group Risk Framework forms a key component of the Group Governance Framework and sets out the Group-wide does not apply to certain material joint approach to managing risk, as part of the internal control system.
ventures where the Group does not exercise full management control.
In these The Strategic report contains more detail on risk governance on page 51. cases, the Group satisfies itself that suitable governance and risk management The framework of internal governance is underpinned by the Group Code of arrangements are in place to protect the Groups interests.
However, the relevant Business Conduct, which sets out the ethical standards the Board requires of Group company which is party to the joint venture must, in respect of any services it itself, employees, agents and others working in the Group.
provides in support of the joint venture, comply with the requirements of the Compliance, reporting and review Groups internal governance framework.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Effectiveness Officer of each business unit, including Group Head Office, annually certify The Board reviewed the framework of internal governance in December 2014 and compliance with the Groups governance, internal control and risk management the effectiveness of the system of internal control in February 2015, covering all requirements.
The Group Risk function facilitates a review of the matters identified material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk by this certification process.
This includes the assessment of any risk and control management systems and the adequacy of the resources, qualifications and issues reported during the year, risk and control matters identified and reported by experience of staff of the Groups accounting and financial reporting the other Group oversight functions and the findings from the work of the internal function.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, audit function, which carries out risk-based audit plans across the Group, and issues evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been arising from any external regulatory engagement.
The system of internal in place throughout the period and up to the date of this report and confirms that the control and its effectiveness is reviewed by the Audit Committee as described system remains effective and adequate.
The system of internal control complies with the UK and HK Codes, as well as the relevant provisions required by the Companys secondary listings in New York and Singapore.
For the purposes of the effectiveness review, the Group has followed the 2005 Turnbull Guidance on internal control effectiveness.
In line with the Turnbull Guidance, the certification provided above
