Chairmans introduction Governance Board governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 77 Board governance The Board is accountable for the long-term Succession planning How the Board spent its time success of the Group and for providing Transactions 3% leadership within a framework of effective The Board is actively engaged in controls.
The control environment enables succession planning for both executive and Other 2% the Board to identify significant risks and non-executive roles to ensure that Board Risk, compliance and apply appropriate measures to manage and composition is progressively refreshed and governance 19% mitigate them.
The Board is responsible for that the Board retains its effectiveness.
This Group strategy 27% approving the strategy and for ensuring is delivered through an established review Performance that the Group is suitably resourced to process applied across all businesses which monitoring and financial reporting 18% achieve it.
In doing so, the Board takes covers both executive director and senior Business unit reviews 31% account of its responsibilities to the Groups management succession and development stakeholders, including its shareholders, and also through the work of the employees, suppliers and the communities Nomination Committee as described more in which Prudential operates.
The Board considers The Board has terms of reference which annually the outcome of the review and any specifically set out matters reserved for its actions arising from the review are decision.
These include matters such as implemented as part of the management approving the Groups strategy and development agenda.
monitoring its implementation, the approval of annual budgets and business plans, as Performance evaluation well as the risk appetite of the Group and its capital and liquidity positions.
The The Board undertook an external Board has approved a governance evaluation of its performance and that of framework that requires all business units its committees in 2014.
The review was to seek approval from the Board for matters facilitated by Independent Board exceeding pre-determined authority limits.
Evaluation, a specialist consultancy More information on this framework can be which undertakes no other business for found on page 80. the Company.
Internal evaluations were The Board has delegated authority to a carried out in 2012 and 2013, and the number of Board Committees which assist Company undertook the external the Board in delivering its responsibilities evaluation in 2014, in keeping with the and ensuring that there is appropriate provision in the UK Corporate Governance independent oversight of internal control Code on external evaluations on no less and risk management.
Directors have the right to seek John stepped down from the Board on The Chairman, together with the Group independent professional advice at the 1 April 2014 and continues in his role as Chief Executive and Group Company Groups expense and copies of such advice Group Investment Director.
In October Secretary, provided a comprehensive are circulated to other directors where 2014, the Company announced that Lord briefing to the assessment team.
Turnbull would not be standing for evaluation included attendance and Authority for the operational re-election at the 2015 AGM in May and observation at Board and committee management of the Groups businesses that he would be succeeded as Chairman meetings, as well as access to additional has been delegated to the Group Chief of the Remuneration Committee by supporting materials to enhance the Executive for execution or further Anthony Nightingale.
assessment teams understanding of how delegation by him in respect of matters The directors biographies, including the Board and its committees operate.
which are necessary for the effective the skills and experience they bring to the In addition, detailed interviews were day-to-day running and management of Board, can be found on pages 72 to 75. conducted with every director using a the business.
The chief executive of each tailor-made agenda.
The assessment team business unit has authority for the Chairman and Chief Executive consulted senior managers and advisers, management of that business unit and each who have close contact with the Board and has established a management board The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief its committees, to obtain their input to comprised of its key executives.
Executive are separate and clearly defined.
The scope of these roles is approved and The evaluation concluded that the Composition of the Board kept under regular review by the Board so overall message from the directors was that no individual has unfettered decisionthat they believed that the Board and its At the date of approving the Annual making powers.
committees were operating to a very Report, the Board comprises sixteen The Chairman is responsible for the high standard.
Directors took their individuals: the Chairman: eight nonleadership and governance of the Board responsibilities seriously and the Board executive directors considered under the and the Group Chief Executive for the covered all bases thoroughly.
While the UK and HK Codes to be independent and management of the Group and Board feels the weight of regulatory work seven executive directors.
implementation of strategy and policy acutely, particularly at committee level, On 1 April 2014, Pierre-Olivier Boue, on the Boards behalf.
In discharging his high standards were given priority over Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed as responsibilities, the Group Chief Executive minimising workload.
He replaced John Foley as Group is advised and assisted by the Group strategy and strong business performance Chief Risk Officer in August 2013, when Executive Committee which comprises the against that strategy, the directors are the latter was appointed to the new role of business unit heads and a Group Head minded to fine-tune rather than materially Group Investment Director.
Office team of functional specialists.
78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Governance Board governance continued The Board has appropriate processes in 2014 Board performance evaluation place to manage any potential conflicts of Through the evaluation and subsequent discussion at the Board meeting in February interest.
Additional information on these 2015, the Board identified areas of particular focus and the related actions set out in processes can be found on page 89. the table below: Throughout the year, the non-executive Theme Action directors were considered by the Board to be independent in character and Board composition Prioritise operational experience, gender balance and judgement and met the criteria for relevant geographical representation, where possible, independence as set out in the UK and in making new appointments to the Board.
The Company has received balance of executive and non-executive directors confirmation of independence from each of under review.
the independent non-executive directors Relationship with Consider ways of further increasing informal contact as required by the HK Listing Rules.
senior management between non-executive directors and senior Alistair Johnston was a partner in the management, for example, inviting additional senior Groups auditor, KPMG, from 1986 to managers to attend committee meetings where 2010.
However, he did not audit the appropriate and continuing to create opportunities for Prudential Group and he no longer has contact with local management during overseas visits.
any financial or other interest in KPMG.
The Board does not consider that this Selection processes Provide more detailed updates and information on former relationship with KPMG affects potential Board candidates to the whole Board as early Alistairs status as an independent as possible.
Board papers Continue to review and streamline Board and Prudential is one of the UKs largest committee papers.
institutional investors and the Board does not believe that this compromises the Throughout the year, the Board also Re-election of directors independence of those non-executive tracked progress through to completion directors who are on the boards of against the actions agreed in respect of the All directors will retire from the Board at the companies in which the Group has a 2013 performance evaluation of the Board 2015 AGM and, with the exception of Lord shareholding.
The Board also believes that Turnbull, each wishes to seek re-election.
such shareholdings should not preclude and its committees.
These actions focused on three broad areas: The performance of each director formed the Company from having the most part of the overall performance evaluation appropriate and highest calibre nonIncreasing Board time spent on business of the Board and the feedback compiled executive directors.
operations generally and on specific assisted the Chairman, and the markets, which was addressed by Nomination Committee, in the assessment Induction extending time spent at Board away of the contribution and commitment of visits, allowing greater focus on the individual directors.
This exercise The Chairman is responsible for ensuring operational aspects: concluded that each directors that induction programmes are provided Continuing work on succession performance continued to be effective and for all new directors.
These are tailored to supported the Nomination Committees reflect the experience of each director and planning and reporting to the Board, with particular emphasis on Board recommendation to shareholders to their position as either executive or re-elect all directors.
On appointment, committees and executive level succession planning.
This has been The Board believes that the nonall directors embark upon a wide-ranging executive directors bring a wide range induction programme covering, among reflected in the work of the Nomination Committee and by continuing the of business, financial and international other things, the principal bases of experience to the Board and its accounting for the Groups results, the role more detailed reporting to the Board, introduced during 2013, on senior committees.
The executive directors, who of the Board and its key committees, the head the main businesses of the Group, Groups key risks and the risk management management development initiatives: and each bring an in-depth understanding to framework within which these sit, as well as the Board of their particular business, its the compliance environment in which the Fine tuning the timing, format and markets and challenges, ensuring the Group operates.
In addition, they receive content of Board meetings.
These Groups principal activities are represented.
detailed briefings on the Groups principal elements have been reviewed and businesses, its product range, the markets adjusted to ensure Board time is used Independence in which it operates and the overall in the best possible way, balancing time competitive environment.
These sessions spent on strategic and operational The independence of the non-executive are facilitated through meetings with issues and management contact with directors is determined with reference to executive management and other senior time spent on regulatory and the United Kingdom UK and Hong Kong members of the management team.
areas addressed include the directors Prudential is required to affirm annually obligations under the different listing Philip Remnant, the Senior Independent Director, led the performance evaluation of the independence of all non-executive regimes, legal and regulatory issues directors under the HK Listing Rules affecting directors of financial services Paul Manduca and was assisted by Independent Board Evaluation in this and the independence of its Audit companies, the Groups governance Committee members under the process.
Feedback on the outcome was arrangements and its investor provided to the Chairman.
relations programme, as well as its remuneration policies.
Governance Board governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 79 Ongoing development legal and regulatory area that could impact the Group.
The Chairman is also responsible for Meetings ensuring that all directors continually update their skills, knowledge and The Board met on ten occasions during the familiarity with the Company.
Directors regularly receive reports facilitating greater year, which included an overseas meeting held at the Groups operations in Jakarta.
awareness and understanding of the Groups businesses and the regulatory and The Board also held one strategy event during the year.
Individual directors industry-specific environments in which it operates.
The Boards overseas visit attendance for meetings throughout the year is set out in the table below.
enabled the directors to develop a fuller understanding of the Groups operations During the year, the Chairman met with the non-executive directors without the and provided the opportunity to meet with the local senior management teams.
executive directors being present on several occasions.
Committee members received detailed presentations at committee meetings In the ordinary course of business, Board and committee papers are provided focussing on areas of particular relevance to the respective committees and were one week in advance of each meeting and where a director was unable to attend kept updated on ongoing developments in these areas, as well as the impact these Board meetings, their views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the have on the Group.
In 2014, the Audit Committee and Risk Committee held a joint meeting.
session providing an update on the status of Solvency II and the Board received additional information on a number of key regulatory reports such as the Own Risk Solvency Assessment ORSA and new investment management metrics developed following the appointment of the Group Investment Director.
In addition, directors were provided with updates throughout the year on other general changes and developments in the Board and committee meeting attendance during 2014 Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk General Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Number of meetings held 10 11 3 6 6 1 Chairman Paul Manduca 10 3 1 Executive directors Tidjane Thiam 10 1 Nic Nicandrou 10 1 1 Pierre-Olivier Boue 8 8 1 2 John Foley 2 2 1 Jackie Hunt 10 1 Michael McLintock 10 1 Barry Stowe 10 1 Mike Wells 10 1 Non-executive directors Philip Remnant 10 11 3 6 1 Howard Davies 10 9 3 6 1 Ann Godbehere 10 11 3 6 1 Alistair Johnston 10 11 1 Kai Nargolwala 10 6 6 1 Anthony Nightingale 10 6 1 Alice Schroeder 10 11 1 Lord Turnbull 10 3 6 5 1 Notes 1 Pierre-Olivier Boue was appointed as a director on 1 April 2014.
2 John Foley stepped down as a director from 1 April 2014.
