Governance Group risk committee report Risk committee chairmans Role and responsibilities of the committee annual statement These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, which are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
In my report last year I mentioned the enhancements to our risk management processes made in 2013 and these The committee is supported in its duties by the risk have continued in 2014.
In September, we welcomed a management committee and the group executive committee.
head of investment process and risk to head our investment The risk management committee is made up of representatives monitoring team.
This team reviews the work of our from all the different business units and reviews all the investment managers, the suitability of their client portfolios different risks from within the businesses at an operational and their assessments of their clients attitude to risk and level.
The group executive committee reviews the risks as capacity for loss.
System enhancements in this area have identified by the risk management committee from a group improved the reporting of investment performance to wide perspective and also within the framework of group management and to the committee.
These discussions then form the basis for the search for a dedicated chief risk officer which resulted debate on both key risks and emerging risks at the group in the appointment of Sarah Owen-Jones, who will join risk committee.
Sarah has considerable The key activities of the committee are to: financial services risk management experience and will be an important addition to the executive management team.
review the business risks and a top 10 list of risks An enhanced risk management framework manual was consider a watch list of emerging risks and issues approved during the year.
This incorporated our risk advise the board on the groups overall risk appetite and risk management documentation including our risk management tolerance policy, three lines of defence model and risk appetite statement into one document.
identify risk trends and correlations I would like to thank Ian Buckley for his considerable consider the lessons learned from operational events and contribution to the work of the committee.
He has been the adequacy of management action instrumental in the development of our risk management review the risk assessment process and the metrics used function over the past couple of years and more recently the appointment of a dedicated chief risk officer.
He will hand over provide guidance to other committees and to the board the day to day responsibility for risk management to Sarah support the boards risk assessment of any proposed Owen-Jones in March.
strategic business change review of the risk-related aspects of key regulatory documents.
Committee members Full details of our risk management processes are included in Our current members are the independent non-executive the strategic report on pages 18 to 22. directors Kathryn Matthews chairman, James Dean, Sarah Gentleman and David Harrel.
Oliver Corbett was a committee Kathryn Matthews member until his retirement from the board on 3 June Chairman of the group risk committee 2014 while Sarah Gentleman joined the committee on her 18 February 2015 appointment to the board on 21 January 2015.
We met on four occasions in 2014 2013: four.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 56.
60 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014
