Governance Audit committee report Audit committee chairmans Role and responsibilities of the committee annual statement These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, which are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
This is my first report as chairman of the audit committee having taken over from Oliver Corbett on his retirement from the board in June 2014.
As you will have read already, 2014 has been a busy year for Rathbones with the successful What we have done completion of a number of corporate transactions.
From an audit committee perspective, their impact on regulatory capital Financial reporting and distributable reserves and their accounting treatment have During the year, we considered the significant financial and been areas of particular focus during the year.
The committee regulatory reporting issues and judgments made in connection has also been mindful of the need to ensure that the business with the financial statements and the appropriateness of systems, procedures and internal controls develop in step with accounting policies.
We reviewed the narrative statements in the growing business.
Examples of this are investments in the the report and accounts and interim statement to ensure that finance team and their systems particularly for budgeting they were fair, balanced and understandable and consistent and business planning and the recruitment of both a head with the reported results.
of strategy and organisation development and a chief risk officer.
Finally, we discussed a report produced following an The significant judgment issues considered in 2014 included: independent review of our internal audit department which Client relationship intangible assets recommended some enhancements to our processes.
The group assesses whether payments made to newly recruited investment managers under contractual agreements represent payments for the acquisition of client relationship Committee members intangibles or remuneration for ongoing services provided to the group.
Payments made for the acquisition of client Our current members are the independent non-executive relationship intangibles are capitalised whereas those that are directors James Dean chairman, Sarah Gentleman, David judged to be in relation to the provision of ongoing services Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
Oliver Corbett chaired the are expensed in the period in which they are incurred note committee until his retirement from the board on 3 June 2.1 to the financial statements.
Typically, any payments made 2014 while Sarah Gentleman joined the committee on her 12 or more months after the cessation of any non-compete appointment to the board on 21 January 2015. period will be expensed.
The audit committee agree that this approach continues to be appropriate.
The board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Acquisitions and funding I am a chartered accountant while the other committee The committee considered the funding, capital, members have extensive experience of financial matters and distributable reserves and accounting implications of the of the financial services industry.
We met on eight occasions two significant transactions entered into by Rathbone in 2014 2013: six.
Details of attendance by members are set Investment Management in April 2014.
Capital was raised out on page 56.
The chief executive, finance director, head of by a placing of 1,343,000 Rathbone Brothers Plc shares at internal audit and the audit partner and manager attend most 18.14 on 1 April 2014 which raised gross proceeds of meetings by invitation.
The head of compliance may also 24.4 million.
These funds were used to help finance a attend when required.
43.1 million investment in Rathbone Investment Management prior to its completion of the acquisition of Jupiter Asset Management Limiteds private client and charity investment management business for 40.0 million on 26 September 2014.
The committee was particularly focused upon ensuring that the associated capital injection into Rathbone Investment Management did not have any consequent impact on the ongoing future flow of dividends from Rathbone Investment Management.
This is a complex area of accounting so the committee considered detailed guidance provided by the accountancy profession and also took legal advice.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 75 Governance Audit committee report What we have done Financial reporting Internal controls and risk management systems The committee agreed with management that the Our review of the effectiveness of the groups internal purchase of part of Deutsche Asset & Wealth Managements financial controls is achieved primarily by the assessment London-based private client investment management business of the work of the group internal audit department, reports was not a business combination under IFRS as the main produced by the compliance function, the findings of the element of the consideration was payable to the investment annual external audit and periodic reviews of identified risks managers.
This transaction has therefore been treated as and mitigating controls undertaken by senior management.
a purchase of client relationship assets.
The acquisition of A separate group risk committee report considers risk Jupiter Asset Management Limiteds private client and charity management issues see pages 18 to 22. investment management business was accounted for as a During the year, we considered the planned growth of the business combination.
client loan book and the related enhancement of systems The acquisition of Rooper & Whately by Rathbone Trust and controls.
We received updates from internal audit on Company on 1 May 2014 and the creation of an Alternative attempted frauds affecting our business and our industry.
Business Structure, regulated by the Solicitors Regulation We also had regular updates from the head of compliance Authority was also discussed.
This was accounted for as a on the work of the compliance team and on any areas of business combination, with the purchase consideration being particular focus or concern.
We discussed the changes allocated to the assets acquired, including intangible client made in the finance department following an organisational relationships, with the surplus being recognised as goodwill.
review in 2013, including the implementation of business This accounting treatment was reviewed and agreed.
planning and consolidation software to reduce the use of complex spreadsheets, succession planning for key roles The carrying value of assets and recruitment in key areas of the team.
We reviewed the methodology for valuing assets where a significant amount of judgment is required, including Internal audit intangible assets, particularly goodwill and client relationships.
Towards the end of the year, we approved the 2015 internal The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations audit plan.
The frequency of internal audit reviews is We reviewed the key assumptions made, particularly salary determined by a risk-based approach.
This ensures that while increases, investment returns, inflation and the discount rate the focus is on higher-risk areas, all parts of the business are when valuing the companys pension schemes liabilities, covered over a three year cycle.
Regular updates are given to which are disclosed in note 29 to the financial statements.
the committee on the findings of completed internal audit We reviewed the professional advice taken and considered reviews, the status of scheduled work and on the follow feedback provided by the auditors on the assumptions used up of reviews by management to ensure that the agreed by us and by other companies.
We satisfied ourselves that recommendations are acted upon promptly.
We saw all the assumptions used were reasonable.
reviews containing high-risk-related recommendations and a sample of other reviews.
Provisions and contingent liabilities We discussed and reviewed provisions totalling Some spare capacity is allowed in the plan so that ad hoc 20.9 million summarised in note 28 to the financial reviews at the request of management or the committee can be statements.
These primarily include provisions made in undertaken.
For example, additional reviews were undertaken respect of future property dilapidation liabilities and in 2014 on investment management client summaries, project future payments to be made following the acquisition of documentation and third party payment procedures.
businesses or amounts payable to new investment We also reviewed internal audit resources and approved managers as outlined above.
We approved the appointment of We discussed the accounting treatment and background KPMG LLP to undertake an independent assessment of our analysis of the settlement of legal proceedings in Jersey internal audit function as required by the Chartered Institute involving a former director and employee of a former of Internal Auditors standards.
The KPMG team used for this subsidiary Rathbone Trust Company Jersey Limited.
work was completely separate from the audit team.
Discussions regarding the settlement amount took place at board level.
The accounting treatment of the profit arising on the repayment of the loan notes received on the sale of the Jersey trust operations in 2008 was also discussed.
76 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Governance Audit committee report What we have done Confidential reporting policy External audit We annually review the groups Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 confidential reporting policy, approve any changes to the We reviewed the external audit process, including the document and receive details of any reports made.
performance of the external auditors, by gathering feedback from committee members and from management.
We also Other reviewed the annual Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit We also discussed FRC publications including reports on the Quality Inspection report prepared on our external auditor and application of materiality, the content of the strategic report discussed this report with the audit partner.
and a review of the audit of banks.
We discussed updates on We are responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements any client complaints and attempted frauds.
Client identity and for any recommendation to the board regarding change of theft remains a significant issue affecting the financial services audit firm.
This includes consideration of the external auditors industry with fraudsters becoming increasingly sophisticated period in office, their compensation and the scope, quality in their approach.
Regular meetings are held on a one-to-one and cost-effectiveness of their work.
The last audit services basis with the head of internal audit and head of compliance contract tender process was undertaken in June 2009, which before audit committee meetings to ensure that any concerns led to the appointment of KPMG.
We plan to undertake an can be raised in confidence.
I also have regular one-to-one audit services contract tender process again before the tenth meetings between audit committee meetings.
We can access anniversary of their appointment.
independent professional advice if we consider it necessary.
We reviewed reports from the external auditor on their audit James Dean plans including their proposed materiality level for the Chairman of the audit committee performance of the annual audit, the status of their audit work and issues arising from it.
Particular focus was given to their 18 February 2015 testing of internal controls, their work on the key judgment areas and possible audit adjustments.
We can confirm that there are no such material items remaining unadjusted in the financial statements.
We also reviewed a benchmarking of our IT controls against a peer group of other investment managers.
We reviewed the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied by the external auditor and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Our prior approval is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is expected to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditor should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without our prior written approval.
Non-audit fees payable to the auditor in 2014 were 206,000.
This represents 37.3% of the fees for assurance services of 517,000, which includes the assurance reports required by our regulators and the review of the interim statement 2013: 71,000, 14.2% of 499,000.
We recognise that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the external auditor to provide certain non-audit services and we are satisfied that their independence has not been impaired by providing these services.
We agreed the external auditors fees which are shown in note 10 to the financial statements and reviewed the audit engagement letter.
We also had discussions with the external auditor with no management present to provide an opportunity for any concerns to be raised and discussed.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 77
