Governance Nomination committee report The principal focus has been on appointing a new nonNomination committee chairmans executive director.
The reduction in the size of our board from annual statement 12 directors at 31 December 2012 to seven at 31 December 2014 has been beneficial in encouraging easier and more The nomination committees primary focus this year has been constructive debate, but the board agreed that the introduction on board composition and skills.
of a non-executive with new skills would be beneficial.
The board were also mindful of the commitment given to achieve a minimum of 25% female representation on the board by 2015.
Committee members Considerable discussion took place between the directors in early 2014, both formally and informally, about the skills Our current members are Mark Nicholls chairman, James we were seeking in a new non-executive director.
A number Dean, Sarah Gentleman, David Harrel, Philip Howell and of additive skills were identified at a nomination committee Kathryn Matthews.
Andy Pomfret and Oliver Corbett served meeting in May 2014 including digital technology, distribution, on the committee until their retirement from the board on 28 media and brands.
It was also agreed, however, that any February and 3 June 2014 respectively.
Sarah Gentleman joined candidate had to be familiar with the financial services sector, the committee on her appointment to the board on 21 January and to be able to contribute to strategic discussions rather than 2015.
The committee continues to think it appropriate that the solely day-to-day operations.
A job description was prepared chief executive is a member, recognising that no individual and used as a basis for interviewing four search firms.
Egon participates in discussions relating to them personally.
Zehnder were chosen to undertake the search.
As part of their brief they were asked to include as many suitable candidates as We met on three occasions in 2014 2013: four.
Five candidates were shortlisted from a long list and attendance by members are set out on page 56. two strong, appointable candidates were interviewed by the whole board.
At a nomination committee meeting in October 2014, it was unanimously agreed that Sarah Gentleman be Role and responsibilities of appointed subject to regulatory approval.
Final approval from all three regulators was only received in January 2015.
In the the committee meantime it was agreed that Sarah should commence her induction programme.
The remit of the committee is to consider and make recommendations to the board for the appointment of directors.
The board as a whole then decides upon any such appointment.
The committee also considers issues such as Looking forward appraisals, training and director development.
The terms of reference of the committee are reviewed annually and We will continue to consider what additional skills are approved by the board.
needed on the board and we will keep under review a succession timetable for both executives and non-executives.
An external search consultancy is generally used when We will also monitor the development of management talent recruiting new non-executive directors and may be used when below board level, and remain aware that the executive recruiting executive directors.
When considering possible committee includes no women.
We will continue to challenge candidates, the committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and management to develop the talent that exists in the firm experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive which may include suitable candidates taking non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The committee is roles outside the firm.
mindful of the benefits of a diverse board with a broad range of skills and experience.
Mark Nicholls Chairman of the nomination committee 18 February 2015 What we have done In June 2014 the nomination committee approved the appointment of James Dean as chairman of the audit committee in succession to Oliver Corbett, who was nearing the end of his tenure as a non-executive director and was due to take up an appointment to the Close Brothers board.
78 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014
