Governance Corporate governance report In between board meetings I maintain frequent contact Introduction from the chairman with the executive team, and in particular the chief executive who keeps me advised of progress and key developments.
You will find commentaries in this annual report from me Philip and I also discuss how to bring issues to the board in and other committee chairmen on important aspects of our the most effective way.
I spend two or more days a week in the governance.
The boards primary focus is on ensuring that the London office, and join some internal meetings particularly business prospers for the benefit of our shareholders and other those that relate to our investment process.
Good governance provides the framework for contact with our senior independent director and discuss achieving this, and the best guardian of governance is a good with him my thinking on significant board issues.
I believe we have this at Rathbones, and I also frequent dialogue with my other non-executive colleagues to believe that the longstanding culture of Rathbones, in putting ensure that any areas of concern are aired.
Before each board the interests of our clients first, is embedded throughout the meeting the non-executive directors meet to highlight any firm.
We are not complacent, however, and we know we must issues that have emerged from the board papers.
remain ever-vigilant, particularly as the firm grows in size.
Finally, Rathbones takes the recommendations of the UK We now have a relatively small board at Rathbones and I Corporate Governance Code seriously and we have been think this helps maintain an open and constructive dialogue compliant with it throughout the year.
We note the additional between the executive and non-executive members.
As requirements in the 2014 Corporate Governance Code and chairman, one of my main tasks is to ensure that the right will work to fully implement these for our next annual report.
information is made available on a timely basis to the nonWe are also compliant with Lord Davies recommendations executives, so that we can all contribute to discussions and that boards have at least 25% female representation.
In this regard a particular area of focus is determining the boundaries of Mark Nicholls appropriate and necessary non-executive oversight.
These Chairman boundaries are continually widening for a financial services company like Rathbones, which is now regulated in the UK 18 February 2015 by the PRA, FCA and the SRA.
Examples of this widening are the fact that key executives in risk and audit now report directly to a non-executive director in their capacity as chairman of the risk committee and audit committee respectively.
In 2014 we set up a conflicts of interest committee also chaired by a non-executive director.
During 2014 Philip Howell became chief executive and James Dean became chairman of the audit committee.
They were able to make an immediate impact, having had appropriate handover periods as part of our succession planning.
I was delighted to welcome Sarah Gentleman to the board in January 2015.
Sarah brings analytical and digital marketing skills to the board which I believe will be of great benefit.
We have robust and effective board meetings, and the broad range of skills and experience of our board members ensures that all issues are fully debated and challenged before a decision is made.
If we need an extended discussion on a matter, we will set up an additional meeting or make use of one of our pre-board dinners.
Most importantly, I am satisfied that when it comes to difficult or ambiguous issues the board is well placed to make sound judgements.
This year we asked IDDAS Limited to undertake an external board effectiveness review, of which more below.
The nomination committee keeps under review both board succession planning and whether additional skills are required on the board.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 55 Governance Corporate governance report The board and principal board committee structure Chairman Leadership of the board Board Non-executive director oversight Approval of strategy and the oversight of its implementation by Group risk committee Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee management Oversight of risk Oversight of financial Responsible for the Responsible for management and management and directors remuneration recommending changes internal controls internal audit policy and for oversight to the composition of of the groups the board Conflicts of interest Chief executive remuneration strategy Responsible for the committee management of the Oversight of the groups business in line with conflict of interest the agreed strategy policies and procedures Executive committee Chief risk officer Internal audit Assists the chief executive Independent assurance Independent assurance in the management of of management and of management and the business internal controls internal controls Finance director Head of investment management Compliance Risk management Head of unit trusts Compliance with Analysis of the risks regulatory requirements facing the business and Chief operating officer the effectiveness of Head of organisational internal controls in design and strategy reducing the risks First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Table 1: Attendance at board meetings Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group risk 1 2 Plc board committee committee committee committee committee P D G Chavasse 6 6 10 12 O R P Corbett 2 2 4 4 1 1 1 2 2 2 J W Dean 6 6 8 8 4 4 3 3 4 4 D T D Harrel 6 6 8 8 4 4 2 3 2 2 P L Howell 6 6 10 12 K A Matthews 6 6 7 8 4 4 3 3 4 4 M P Nicholls 6 6 4 4 3 3 A D Pomfret 1 1 2 2 R P Stockton 6 6 11 12 1 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting 2 Scheduled monthly meeting 56 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Governance Corporate governance report Governance of the company Attendance at board meetings In relation to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance The meeting attendance record of directors who served during Code, this report together with the directors report states the the year is set out in table 1. position at 18 February 2015.
The company was in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC Board effectiveness throughout the year.
There are three key elements to ensuring board effectiveness: the annual effectiveness review, individual director appraisal The board and training.
The biographies of the directors and their details are set out on pages 50 to 52.
The board currently consists of a Board effectiveness review non-executive chairman, three executive directors and four other non-executive directors.
The board considers that all Each year, the board undertakes an annual review of its of the non-executive directors are independent.
In 2013, a questionnaire-based review was of the chairman, Mark Nicholls, and the chief executive, undertaken.
The table below shows the key points raised in Philip Howell, are separated and are clearly defined in this 2013 review and the action taken.
writing and agreed by the board.
The non-executive directors bring independent judgment to the board table gained at Key issues from the 2013 review Action taken a senior level in other organisations and constructively Review the board agenda Items for particular focus at the challenge strategy and management performance.
The senior and time allocations meeting are now highlighted independent director is David Harrel, who is available to Improvements to Board papers have improved, shareholders if they have concerns that they would rather board papers but more work is needed in some not address to the chairman or executive directors or areas with a need for greater use which remain unresolved after an approach through the of exception reporting normal channels.
Oversight of the business by A revised chief executives board the non-executive directors report was introduced during Regarding board changes, Philip Howell succeeded the year which summarises key Andy Pomfret as chief executive on 1 March 2014.
Oliver issues for the non-executive Corbett stepped down from the board on 3 June 2014 and directors.
Training sessions are was succeeded by James Dean as chairman of the audit arranged with internal presenters committee.
Sarah Gentleman was appointed to the board where possible to give the non-executive directors exposure on 21 January 2015. to the management team We meet as a full board at least six times a year.
Most board Requests for more market There has been a particular focus meetings are preceded by a board dinner which allows for and competitor analysis in 2014 on our tariff and our broader discussions and an opportunity for the board to meet competitive position other members of the management team.
In months where The possible skill set of any See the nomination committee no formal board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting new non-executive director report on page 78 of the non-executive directors and the chairman and chief Potential threats to and There is now greater focus at executive is generally held.
The non-executive directors opportunities for the business board level on market activity also have informal meetings without the chairman or chief and analyses executive present.
Training needs for the directors Training sessions are regularly held The company secretary manages board and committee on aspects of the business meetings, ensures that the board and particularly the nonexecutive directors are receiving appropriate and balanced information, facilitates the induction process for new directors, assists with their professional development and advises the board on corporate governance matters and on the rules and regulations that affect a UK listed company.
The appointment or removal of the company secretary is a matter for the board.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 57 Governance Corporate governance report Board effectiveness review Training and induction For 2014, an external review was undertaken by IDDAS Limited.
This involved their attendance at audit, group risk Rathbones is committed to the training and and board meetings, one-to-one interviews with directors development of all staff to ensure professional standards and the company secretary and a review of board and board are maintained and enhanced.
All directors are required to committee papers and minutes.
The key points raised in the dedicate a certain number of hours to their own development.
2014 review, which are summarised below, will be discussed by Training and development include activities to keep the board and taken forward in 2015. up-to-date with Rathbones specific issues and industry, market and regulatory changes.
The board agenda Greater focus on oversight, strategy and key risks, less on New directors are involved in a thorough induction process day to day management issues designed to enable them to become quickly familiar with the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of key Information flows business areas, attendance at important internal meetings and Further refinement of board papers to highlight key points demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
and remove clutter Succession planning For executive and non-executive directors and below Board committees board level Induction and development Full details of the work of the principal board committees Develop a more structured programme are set out in the separate reports for each committee which follow this report.
In addition to the principal board Code of ethics committees, a conflicts of interest committee, chaired by Embed a code of business conduct James Dean, was established in March 2014.
It has oversight Risk of the groups conflicts of interest policies and procedures.
Greater board focus on the key business risks The committees members are the chairman, non-executive directors and the chief executive.
The chief risk officer and head of internal audit are normally in attendance.
Director appraisal Mark Nicholls Chairman Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertaken by the chief executive in respect of the executive 18 February 2015 directors executive roles and the chairman for all directors in respect of their contribution to the board.
This involves meeting with each director on a one-to-one basis.
The nonexecutive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
58 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014
