Capita plc 73 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 72 Capita plc 73 Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation in 2014 Deputy Company Secretary at the time An external evaluation was undertaken in scheduled meetings.
We believe that the number of our Compliance with the An internal evaluation was undertaken of the review.
The resultant report was 2012 by Genius Methods and, therefore, in a number of ways and are prioritised Board Directors and their range of skills Financial Reporting Councils in October 2014, this was carried out presented in full.
an external evaluation will be undertaken and delegated in accordance with the risk are appropriate for the scale and scope UK Corporate Governance Code by a questionnaire requiring written during 2015. ratings provided.
of the business and to ensure effective Capita plc and its subsidiaries the Group responses from all of the Directors.
To As a result of the formal evaluation Board processes.
The Board has the broad remain committed to maintaining high ensure independence and objectivity, the exercise, some enhancements were made Both the Group Risk & Compliance range of experience that is essential to standards of corporate governance.
questionnaire was conceived, administered to the Boards review of new contracts and Director and the Group Internal Audit ensure effective execution of strategy and The UK Corporate Governance Code and reviewed by the Company Secretary the approval process for acquisitions.
Director report to the Group Finance management of risk, whilst also ensuring 2012 the Code applies to accounting Director and independently to the Audit that the balance of skills is appropriate for periods beginning on or after 1 October Compilation Evaluation Reporting Review 2014 Outcomes 2015 Actions and Risk Committee.
Both report on the committees.
A copy of the Code is available the internal audit programme and risk all of their responsibilities and do not solely from the Financial Reporting Councils and compliance management activities represent the activities they have within the Questions devised by Written questionnaire Report produced Chairman meets Overall, very positive.
Throughout the across the Group.
They have access to all Group which adds to open and constructive Chairman and Senior completed by analysing responses each Board member Governance accounting period to which this report Recognition of Independent Director.
and drawing individually to discuss processes and members of the Board and hold regular debate, as well as demonstrating the overall relates, the Company complied with all robustness of the anonymous performance of strategic behaviours meetings with the Executive Directors and strength of the Board.
Devised, administered governance process relevant provisions set out in Sections A conclusions.
meet with the Audit and Risk Committee and reviewed within the Board.
to E of the Codes except as detailed below: Chairman and myself at least quarterly.
In this context, given the diversity of the confidentially by Sent to each Director Non-Executive Directors Provide actions taken Strong dynamics Groups activities, the Board considers it Company Secretary to for consideration.
and Senior Independent to address small As noted above, the balance of independent that exist between ensure independence.
Director meet to follow up items.
Directors essential to have the five Executive Directors Non-Executives to Executives is not strategic challenge discuss performance of The Directors of the Company currently in on the Group Board rather than the lower and strategic focus equal.
In December 2014, we announced Chairman, with input office are listed on pages 68 and 69. number that many boards have.
The Board amongst Executive and that Andrew Williams would be joining from Executive Directors.
also believe that the Board should not Non-Executive Directors.
the Board as a Non-Executive Director With the announcement that Gordon be too large in order to ensure effective Meeting of from 1 January 2015.
Although the Board Some minor Non-Executive Hurst will retire from the Group Board on discussion and challenge: and considers that now has five Non-Executive Directors enhancements Directors with 28 February 2015, and in line with Capitas the number of Non-Executive Directors, at and amendments to and five Executive Directors, we remain Executive Directors.
senior management succession plan, Nick five, provides a well balanced Board overall.
Greatorex will join the Group Board and succeed Gordon as Group Finance Director This area of non-compliance is expected to Chairman meets with members of the Board individually throughout the However, in accordance with the Codes effective from 1 March 2015. remain throughout 2015, but the Board is year to receive feedback and discuss current and long term opportunities.
1 Supporting Principles, the Board confident that the size and make up of the Board balance kept under regular review by Chairman and Chief Executive.
Board evaluation process needs to be appropriate in size and All the Board with the exception of Gordon Board is highly effective and appropriate.
experience to manage the complexities it Hurst will stand for re-election Carolyn Fairbairn, Andrew Williams and Nick Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit In order for the Board to ensure that the year.
These include individual meetings Greatorex for election at the forthcoming Code Area of Position at On pages 36 to 41 in the strategic report strategic direction and growth of the between the Group Risk & Compliance AGM.
All of the Board have received a provision non-compliance 31 December 2014 we have described fully the roles of Risk & Group can continue successfully and with Director and the Group Internal Audit formal performance evaluation, as described B.
1.2 Composition During the period the Board The balance was five Executive Compliance and Internal Audit together with the appropriate risk oversight, a number Director with the Chairman of the Audit above, and each Director continues to of the Board had an imbalance of Executive Directors and three Independent the risks and internal controls for the Group.
of meetings are held throughout the and Risk Committee, as well as normal be effective and to demonstrate their Directors to Independent Non-Executive Directors and a commitment to the role.
Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit The following pages in this section consist of our corporate governance and remuneration reports.
I hope that you will find these Capita plc Chairman and the entire annual report and accounts informative.
The Board will be happy to receive any feedback you may have.
Group Risk & Audit and Risk Group Internal Group Executive Martin Bolland Compliance Director Committee Chairman Audit Director Board Directors Non-Executive Chairman 25 February 2015 Internal audit Direct report programme & risk Audit and Risk and compliance Independent report Committee management activities Meet at least monthly Meet at least quarterly Group Finance Director Capita plc 74 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 75 Corporate governance statement continued Board changes in the year Frequency of meetings and attendance During 2014, the Board met nine times, Name Date Position excluding ad hoc meetings, solely to deal with Dawn Marriott-Sims 1 January 2014 Appointed Joint COO procedural matters.
Attendance of the Board Paul Pindar 28 February 2014 Retired as CEO Directors is recorded in the table below: Martina King 12 May 2014 Retired as a Non-Executive Board meetings Director Carolyn Fairbairn 13 May 2014 Appointed Non-Executive Scheduled meetings 9 Director Martin Bolland 9 Andrew Williams 1 January 2015 Appointed Non-Executive Andy Parker 9 Director Gordon Hurst 9 Gordon Hurst 28 February 2015 Retired as Group Finance Maggi Bell 8 Director Vic Gysin 9 Nick Greatorex 1 March 2015 Appointed Group Finance Dawn Marriott-Sims 9 Director Gillian Sheldon 9 Paul Bowtell 8 Further information on the changes to the Board is set out in the Nomination Carolyn Fairbairn 6 Committee report on page 85.
Paul Pindar 2 Board composition Martina King 3 Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Carolyn Fairbairn was not appointed to the Board until 13 May 2014.
Paul Pindar and Martina King January 2014 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland retired from the Board on 28 February and 12 May 28 February 2014 Andy Parker Gillian Sheldon 2014 respectively.
Gordon Hurst Paul Bowtell Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid Maggi Bell Martina King strategy, consideration of meeting times Vic Gysin has to include flexibility to hold meetings Dawn Marriott-Sims outside of this timetable and meetings of 1 March 2014 Andy Parker Martin Bolland this nature tend to be held by telephone.
12 May 2014 Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon Any Directors absence from Board meetings Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell was previously agreed with the Chairman of Vic Gysin Martina King the Board or the Chief Executive.
Dawn Marriott-Sims 13 May 2014 Andy Parker Martin Bolland 31 December 2014 Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn Dawn Marriott-Sims 1 January 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland 28 February 2015 Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn Dawn Marriott-Sims Andrew Williams 1 March 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn Dawn Marriott-Sims Andrew Williams Independent in accordance with the Code.
Capita plc 75 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 74 Capita plc 75 Corporate governance statement continued Board changes in the year Frequency of meetings and attendance During 2014, the following formal Role of the Board Board.
The Non-Executive Directors must During 2014, the Board met nine times, Director meetings took place: The Companies Act 2006 requires satisfy themselves on the integrity of Name Date Position excluding ad hoc meetings, solely to deal with The Chairman held one to one review Directors to act in a way they consider, financial information and that financial Dawn Marriott-Sims 1 January 2014 Appointed Joint COO procedural matters.
Attendance of the Board sessions with each Executive Director and in good faith, would be most likely to controls and systems of risk management Paul Pindar 28 February 2014 Retired as CEO Directors is recorded in the table below: each Non-Executive Director.
promote the success of the Company are robust.
Following presentations by for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
executive and divisional management Martina King 12 May 2014 Retired as a Non-Executive The Non-Executive Directors met In doing so, the Directors must have regard and a disciplined process of review and Board meetings Director without Executive Directors.
amongst other matters to: challenge by the Board, clear decisions Carolyn Fairbairn 13 May 2014 Appointed Non-Executive Scheduled meetings 9 The Non-Executive Directors met with on policy or strategy are adopted, and the likely consequences of any decision Director just the Chief Executive Officer.
Martin Bolland 9 the executive management are fully in the long term Andrew Williams 1 January 2015 Appointed Non-Executive The Non-Executive Directors met Andy Parker 9 empowered to implement those decisions.
the interests of the Companys employees Director without the Chairman, led by the Senior Gordon Hurst 9 Independent Director.
the need to foster business relationships Board independence Gordon Hurst 28 February 2015 Retired as Group Finance Maggi Bell 8 with suppliers, customers and others Non-Executive Directors are required to be Director Vic Gysin 9 Board leadership the impact of the Companys independent in character and judgement.
Nick Greatorex 1 March 2015 Appointed Group Finance Consistent with previous years, the Board Dawn Marriott-Sims 9 operations on the community and All relationships that may materially Director continues to support the need to segregate the environment interfere with this judgement are disclosed Gillian Sheldon 9 the responsibility for operating the Board as required under the conflicts of interest Paul Bowtell 8 the desirability of the Company Further information on the changes to the Board is set out in the Nomination and managing the underlying business.
The Board has determined that maintaining a reputation for high Carolyn Fairbairn 6 Committee report on page 85.
Martin Bollands role as Non-Executive all the Non-Executive Directors who standards of business conduct Paul Pindar 2 Chairman and the role of Andy Parker as served during the year were independent the need to act fairly towards all Chief Executive are separate.
Board composition Martina King 3 and before and upon appointment as shareholders of the Company.
Chairman, Martin Bolland met the criteria Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Carolyn Fairbairn was not appointed to the Board Martin Bolland as Non-Executive of independence as outlined in the Code.
Paul Pindar and Martina King January 2014 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland In addition to their statutory duties, Chairman and Gillian Sheldon as Senior retired from the Board on 28 February and 12 May 28 February 2014 Andy Parker Gillian Sheldon the Directors must ensure that the 2014 respectively.
Independent Director also held meetings The Board does not believe that a Gordon Hurst Paul Bowtell Board focuses effectively on all its solely comprising the Non-Executive Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid Non-Executives tenure materially Maggi Bell Martina King accountabilities.
Both Martin and strategy, consideration of meeting times interferes with their ability to act in the Vic Gysin Gillian are also available to meet with has to include flexibility to hold meetings best interests of the Group.
The Board also Dawn Marriott-Sims The Board determines the strategic shareholders when requested.
outside of this timetable and meetings of believes that each of the Non-Executives objectives and policies of the Group to 1 March 2014 Andy Parker Martin Bolland this nature tend to be held by telephone.
has retained independence of character best support the delivery of long term 12 May 2014 Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon and judgement and has not formed Any Directors absence from Board meetings value, providing overall strategic direction Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell associations with management or others was previously agreed with the Chairman of within an appropriate framework of Vic Gysin Martina King that may compromise their ability to the Board or the Chief Executive.
The Dawn Marriott-Sims exercise independent judgement or act Board is collectively responsible for the 13 May 2014 Andy Parker Martin Bolland in the best interests of the Group.
success of the Company: the Executive 31 December 2014 Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon Directors are directly responsible for Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell The Board is satisfied that no conflict of running the business operations and the Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn interest exists for any Director.
This matter Non-Executive Directors are responsible Dawn Marriott-Sims is a standing agenda item.
for bringing independent judgement 1 January 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland and scrutiny to decisions taken by the 28 February 2015 Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn Dawn Marriott-Sims Andrew Williams 1 March 2015 Andy Parker Martin Bolland Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell Vic Gysin Carolyn Fairbairn Dawn Marriott-Sims Andrew Williams Independent in accordance with the Code.
Capita plc 76 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 77 Corporate governance statement continued Board Directors inductions and training On the announcement of the Matters reserved for the Board Following appointment to the Board, all appointments of Dawn Marriott-Sims A formal schedule of matters reserved by new Directors receive an induction tailored and Nick Greatorex to the Board, the the Board has been adopted and these to their individual requirements.
They are Company Secretary and the Group Risk include, but are not limited to: encouraged to meet and be briefed on the & Compliance Director held specific strategy and management including roles of key people across the Group and training sessions which included their responsibility for the overall leadership of have open access to all business areas and responsibilities as a Director of a Listed the Company and setting the Companys employees to build up an appropriate level Company, and risk and governance areas.
values and standards and overview of the of knowledge of the business that extends A full induction was not required given Groups operational management beyond formal papers and presentations that Dawn and Nick had worked within structure and capital including changes to the Board.
All Directors have received Capita for a number of years.
relating to the Groups capital structure an appropriate induction for their roles and major changes to the Groups within Capita.
These have included Carolyn Fairbairn and Andrew Williams corporate structure including acquisitions familiarisation with: received training and induction sessions and disposals and changes to the Groups with the Chairman, Executive Directors, terms of reference for all committees management and control structure the Company Secretary, the Group Risk and matters reserved for the Board financial reporting including the & Compliance Director and the Group overviews of the business via approval of the half-yearly report, interim Internal Audit Director.
Management Operations Business MOB management statements and preliminary review reports announcement for the final results.
Ongoing training and briefings are also the Group approach to risk Also the approval of the dividend policy, given to all Directors, including external management.
the setting and approval of treasury courses as required.
policies and establishing and maintaining accounting policies.
Case study: Board Directors induction and training Training from Deputy Training in governance Training from Group Internal and external Company Secretary and stakeholder Risk & Compliance training plus relationships Director additional briefings provided as required Carolyn Fairbairn Non-Executive Director May 2014 June 2014 July 2014 Provided with terms Access to Divisional Attended Monthly Attended financial of reference for all Executive Board Operating Board services risk committees Directors MOB review and committee provided with reports Provided with terms of reference for matters reserved for the Board Capita plc 77 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 76 Capita plc 77 Corporate governance statement continued Board Directors inductions and training On the announcement of the Matters reserved for the Board internal controls, ensuring that the The Board welcomes the revised UK All members of the Board, including Following appointment to the Board, all appointments of Dawn Marriott-Sims A formal schedule of matters reserved by Group manages risk effectively and Stewardship Code 2012 and the steps it the Non-Executive Directors, receive a new Directors receive an induction tailored and Nick Greatorex to the Board, the the Board has been adopted and these approving all acquisitions, disposals of has made to improve engagement and report on any significant discussions with to their individual requirements.
They are Company Secretary and the Group Risk include, but are not limited to: assets and share acquisitions purposeful dialogue between companies shareholders and feedback that follows encouraged to meet and be briefed on the & Compliance Director held specific and investors.
All shareholders are the annual and half-yearly presentations strategy and management including contracts, including approval of roles of key people across the Group and training sessions which included their encouraged to attend the Annual General to investment analysts and shareholders.
responsibility for the overall leadership of all major capital projects and major have open access to all business areas and responsibilities as a Director of a Listed Meeting and information for shareholders All analyst reports concerning Capita are the Company and setting the Companys investments including the acquisition of employees to build up an appropriate level Company, and risk and governance areas.
is available on the Companys website circulated to the Directors.
values and standards and overview of the disposal of interest of more than 3% in of knowledge of the business that extends A full induction was not required given www.
All the Non-Executive Groups operational management the voting shares of any company or the beyond formal papers and presentations that Dawn and Nick had worked within Directors are available to meet with Directors, including the Chair of the making of any takeover offer structure and capital including changes to the Board.
shareholders to understand their views various committees, are present at relating to the Groups capital structure ensuring satisfactory communication an appropriate induction for their roles more fully.
The Chairman is available to the Annual General Meeting to answer and major changes to the Groups with shareholders within Capita.
These have included Carolyn Fairbairn and Andrew Williams the significant shareholders of the Group.
The Board particularly corporate structure including acquisitions any changes to the structure, size and familiarisation with: received training and induction sessions encourages communication with and the and disposals and changes to the Groups composition of the Board.
with the Chairman, Executive Directors, The Corporate Communications participation of private investors at the terms of reference for all committees management and control structure the Company Secretary, the Group Risk team has effective day-to-day Annual General Meeting.
and matters reserved for the Board financial reporting including the Company Secretary & Compliance Director and the Group responsibility for managing shareholder overviews of the business via approval of the half-yearly report, interim All Board members have access to Internal Audit Director.
communications and always acts in Remuneration Committee Management Operations Business MOB management statements and preliminary independent advice on any matters relating close consultation with the Board.
A Details of the Remuneration Committee review reports announcement for the final results.
to their responsibilities as Directors and as Ongoing training and briefings are also Disclosure Committee consisting of the and its activities are given in the Directors the Group approach to risk Also the approval of the dividend policy, members of the various committees of the given to all Directors, including external Corporate Communications Director, Chief remuneration report on pages 92 to 108. management.
the setting and approval of treasury Board at the Groups expense.
Executive and Group Finance Director policies and establishing and maintaining ensures all appropriate communications Internal control accounting policies.
Francesca Todd was appointed as are made to the London Stock Exchange This process is regularly reviewed by the Company Secretary previously Deputy and shareholders.
The Groups key internal control Company Secretary, on 12 November access up-to-date information through procedures are fully documented within 2014.
She is available to all Directors and the Groups website at www.
the strategic report on pages 2 to 66. is responsible for ensuring that all Board A telephone helpline, 0871 664 0300, procedures are complied with.
provides a contact point directly to the Strategic report Groups registrars.
The Company is required to prepare a The Company Secretary has direct access fair review of the business of the Group Case study: and responsibility to the Chairs of the In 2014, the Corporate Communications during the financial year ended 31 standing committees and open access to Board Directors induction and training team and the Board maintained active, December 2014 and of the position of all the Directors.
The Company Secretary targeted communications with existing the Group at the end of the financial has been appointed as Secretary to and potential shareholders and the wider year and a description of the principal the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and investment community.
The team focused risks and uncertainties facing the Group Nomination Committees to ensure that on creating opportunities for Capitas known as a strategic report.
The there are no conflicts of interest.
The new CEO to further build his relationships purpose of the strategic report is to enable Company Secretary meets regularly with with the investment community.
It also shareholders to assess how the Directors the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Training from Deputy Training in governance Training from Group Internal and external heightened efforts to target long term have performed their duty under Section and Risk Committee and the Chair of the Company Secretary and stakeholder Risk & Compliance training plus underweight shareholders and non- 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to relationships Director additional briefings Remuneration Committee and briefs them holders in the UK and North America to promote the success of the Company.
The provided as required on areas of governance and committee Carolyn Fairbairn increase appetite in holding the stock.
This information that fulfils the requirements requirements.
Non-Executive was in response to concerns that, due to of the strategic report can be found in Director personnel and structural changes at our pages 2 to 66.
Details of the Groups Dialogue with shareholders largest shareholder, there was potential business goal, strategy and model are The Board encourages and seeks to build that the institution may need to reduce on pages 2 and 3.
The information that a mutual understanding of objectives their shareholding.
This did occur but the fulfils the requirements of the corporate May 2014 June 2014 July 2014 between the Group and its shareholders.
shares were fairly smoothly taken up by governance report can be found in pages As part of this process the Executive long term investors.
Directors make regular presentations and share register contains a more balanced set meet with institutional shareholders to of long term shareholders with substantial Provided with terms Access to Divisional Attended Monthly Attended financial discuss the Groups business model and shareholdings rather than being dominated of reference for all Executive Board Operating Board services risk growth strategy, address any issues of by one institutional shareholder.
committees Directors MOB review and committee concern, obtain feedback and consider provided with reports corporate governance issues.
Provided with terms of reference for matters reserved for the Board
