Capita plc 67 Strategic report Go Gov vernance ernance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Governance Justice & Secure Services This section of our report introduces our Board members and This division comprises our businesses servicing the police and emergency services market, custody and border services, our digital and gamification businesses, contains our Directors report, which consists of the Corporate parking services, AMT-SYBEX, Fire Service College and our TfL and Electronic governance statement, the Audit and Risk Committee report Monitoring contracts.
and the Directors remuneration report.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities We created an innovative simulation Innovation, digital transformation and 2014 2013 platform for the Fire Service College emerging technologies will continue to FSC, the BLUEHAWK solution, be key themes for the division in 2015.
Revenue 565.8m 411.4m developed by G2G3, allowing emergency Seek to develop and acquire new personnel to train in a realistic, yet safe Underlying disruptive technologies that will bring 77.2m 64.9m environment while being exposed to a operating profit operational benefits to new and range of different crisis situations.
Underlying G2G3s digital strengths in terms Board members Corporate governance statement 13.6% 15.8% operating margin of innovation, game science and next see page 68 see page 70 AMT-SYBEX priorities are to support generation web platforms have been Ofgems gas settlement reform A summary of the biographical details Martin Bolland, Non-Executive Chairman, Capex 21.9m 15.2m introduced into a number of projects.
through alignment with project Nexus: and responsibilities of the Group Board introduces a report on how the Company Successfully completed a major IT delivering the next generation of of Directors.
applies the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, a formal report on transformation programme in Southwark our award-winning mobile platform Business development highlights: compliance with the Code provisions and Council providing the foundation for Fieldreach: maximise opportunities Completed a number of acquisitions other statutory and regulatory information.
from water competition: deliver to enhance our offerings & market packaged analytics offerings to support Seamlessly took over the Electronic diversification including: AMT-SYBEXs energy industry reform and delivering a Monitoring contract, delivering the innovative software and associated smart metering solution integrated to existing solution & services while in services for large organisations in the industry standards.
parallel developing our new solution that utility and transport sectors, Eclipse will see just one consistent service being Legals Case and Practice Solutions, Transport for London: Completion delivered across England & Wales.
Liberty Printings print solutions for of implementation programme for public authorities and private sector In the final stages of completing a Congestion Charging, Low Emission business, PageOne communications transformation programme for English Zone and Traffic Enforcement schemes business process automation solutions Heritage, and the successful launch of and smooth go-live of operations in Audit and Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report and Retain Internationals workforce the new Stonehenge visitors centre.
June 2015. see page 86 see page 92 planning solutions.
Commenced implementation of Paul Bowtell, Chairman of the Audit Carolyn Fairbairn, Chair of the Complete the new hi tech solution Created ControlWorks, a Congestion Charging, Low Emission and Risk Committee, reports on the Remuneration Committee, reports on for Electronic Monitoring that will next generation command and Zone and Traffic Enforcement Notice Audit and Risk Committees role and remuneration policy and practice for monitor all individuals placed on control solution for the emergency Processing schemes on behalf of TfL work during the year.
a tag, providing key agencies with services market and won our first and early take-on of services.
valuable up-to-date information to ControlWorks contract with Derbyshire The loss of the Disclosure & drive greater compliance amongst Police and a key public national Barring Service contract and the initial offenders.
Introduce the latest infrastructure organisation.
implementation costs of the Electronic hand-held technology to ensure our Won a contract with the Metropolitan Monitoring contract impacted margins field-force can monitor all individuals Police Control Room Futures programme in the year.
appropriately 24 7. a partnership with Lockheed Martin a key strategic programme for the UKs We will continue to expand our parking largest police force.
and enforcement proposition into new market segments.
On behalf of the Board: Andy Parker Gordon Hurst Chief Executive Group Finance Director 25 February 2015
