Capita plc 85 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 84 Capita plc 85 Committees continued Nomination Committee report The Group Financial Services Risk In overseeing Capitas risk management Members: Board diversity Group Financial Services Committee met four times in 2014 and practices and ensuring risks are limited Martin Bolland Chair In 2014, 20% of our senior management Risk Committee attendance was as follows: by management, appropriate use of team and 44% of our Board were women.
The Group Financial Services Risk Gillian Sheldon controls, the Executive Risk Committee Capita sees significant business benefit Committee was established at the Paul Bowtell holds a key position in the governance in having access to the diversity of Name of member Number of beginning of 2012 and meets at least Martina King until 12 May 2014 meetings attended of Capitas group risk profile.
Its primary thinking that comes from people with a quarterly to assess the risks across Capitas functions are to: Carolyn Fairbairn from 13 May 2014 wide range of backgrounds at all levels financial services businesses.
The Forum Tim Brooke 4 in the Company.
Only by encouraging is chaired by Tim Brooke, an independent oversee Capitas risk identification, Andrew Williams from 1 January 2015 Martin Bolland 3 this diversity and by fostering talent member of the Committee.
Members monitoring and reporting practices throughout the business can the Company Gordon Hurst 4 include: Martin Bolland, Vic Gysin and and take all steps to ensure that senior The Company Secretary acts as Secretary expect to achieve further diversity in Gordon Hurst and the Group Risk & divisional management has in place Martin Bolland to the Committee and is available to Vic Gysin 4 senior management.
Capita has a network Compliance Director.
Other key divisional procedures and mechanisms to identify Chair, Nomination Committee assist the members of the Committee as Chris Terry 4 of diversity champions across the Group staff are invited to attend and report to and control all fundamental strategic, required, ensuring that timely and accurate and the Companys training and mentoring this forum.
All Non-Executive Directors operational, financial & reporting and information is distributed accordingly.
I am pleased to present the report on the initiatives actively support the fostering have open invitations to attend any of compliance risks In November 2014, the Group Financial activities of the Nomination Committee of talent at all levels in the business across these meetings.
The Committee met four times in 2014 Services Risk Committee undertook provide the forum to monitor, challenge for the year to 31 December 2014.
I am the Companys diverse workforce.
The and the attendance is shown on page 83. an evaluation.
In line with the Board and ensure effective mitigation is in place The terms of reference for this delighted that Capitas senior management Board and senior management teams Evaluation this was broadly positive.
for Capitas risk management environment forum include: succession planning continues to provide across Capita are fully committed to The Committee reports and makes Few actions were identified, but it was promote greater awareness of continuity for senior appointments within continuing to foster talent and support reviewing and commenting upon recommendations to the Board in relation agreed that a review of some reporting risk management at all levels within the Group.
I have been impressed how those people from all backgrounds who Group control function oversight plans and to its activities and deliberations.
papers would be undertaken in 2015.
The the organisation both Andy and Dawn have embraced their wish to progress.
However, the Company monitoring their progress committee membership would also be establish and preserve oversight new roles and provided clear leadership will also continue to appoint and promote It is authorised under its terms of reference reviewing material findings arising from reviewed in 2015. for risk issues that affect Capita or its across the business.
Set out below is a people on merit and in line with the to obtain the advice of independent search oversight activities and issues identified customer base summary of the work carried out during skills and attributes identified for each consultants.
The terms of reference for by management Non-Financial Services the year.
post, including those identified by the provide strategic risk guidance.
the Nomination Committee can be found tracking key regulatory changes Risk Committee Nominations Committee for the Board.
on the Groups website at www.
impacting on the Groups regulated firms Non Financial Services Risk Committee Further information is shown on page 53 The Non-Financial Services Risk co. uk investors.
These were reviewed and was established at the end of 2013.
It tracking key business developments, of the strategic report.
Committee met twice in 2014 updated during the year.
meets bi-annually to assess the risks including bids, acquisitions and and attendance was as follows: outside of financial services.
In 2014, offshoring developments From 1 January 2015, we have appointed it was chaired by Gordon Hurst and a Director of Talent to further identify and receiving updates on regulatory capital Name of member Number of membership includes: develop talent from within the Group and issues e. g. ICAAP meetings attended attract new external talent.
reviewing and adopting Gordon Hurst 2 Dawn Marriott-Sims, Vic Gysin, and the policies applicable to the financial Group Risk and Compliance Director.
The Vic Gysin 1 Committee activities during 2014 services businesses Group Internal Audit Director also attends Dawn Marriott-Sims 2 identifying items for the attention of with the Head of Risk.
All Non-Executives Key Responsibilities Activity in 2014 the Board or Audit Committee.
have an open invitation to attend these Chris Terry 1 to identify and nominate Succession planning for the Board generally meetings.
appropriate candidates for All Directors stand for election or re-election at the AGM, therefore consideration of The scope of the Committee includes appointment to the Board, having the performance of all Directors, length of service, their interests and potential conflicts the Financial Conduct Authority FCA due regard to the provisions of were considered.
in the UK and the equivalent financial the Code and, in particular, the Diversity of the Board services regulator in other jurisdictions balance of skills, knowledge and where the Group operates regulated Conflicts of interests were considered for the independence of the Non-Executive Directors experience on the Board and the financial services firms.
diversity of its composition The time committed by the Non-Executives was considered and remained appropriate to ensure that each discharged their duties and responsibilities: to keep the structure and size of the Board and the leadership Appointment of Carolyn Fairbairn and Andrew Williams as Independent Non-Executive Directors needs of the organisation under Retirement of Gordon Hurst review and ensure that plans are Appointment of Nick Greatorex.
Continuing with the strength of Capita of identifying and in place for orderly succession and recruiting from within Group, Nick Greatorex had been identified by the Board and had undertaken appointment to the Board a thorough and formal interview process and series of meetings with all members of the Board.
to review the time For all of the appointments within the year they included consideration of the size and structure of the commitment required from Board and the balance and range of its Directors knowledge and experience.
External search agencies Non-Executive Directors, the and open advertising were not used for any of the new Board appointments as the Executive Director performance of Directors and all appointment was made as a result of a long term internal succession planning exercise and the nondeclarations of interest made by executive appointments were sourced through the Boards own targeted searches.
Board members Martin Bolland will continue to review the opportunities for the Board on an ongoing basis.
to consider the Group diversity position.
