Capita plc 86 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 87 Audit and Risk Committee report I am pleased to present the report on the The Chairman of the Committee is directly activities of the Audit and Risk Committee available to and holds regular meetings for the year to 31 December 2014. with the Group Finance Director, Group Risk & Compliance Director, Company Members: Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the, Paul Bowtell Chair 1 3 Committee, the Group Internal Audit Director and external Auditors.
Gillian Sheldon1 Carolyn Fairbairn from 13 May 2014 1 Role and responsibilities Tim Brooke2 The Audit and Risk Committee assists Martina King until 12 May 2014 1 the Board in fulfilling its oversight Paul Bowtell responsibilities in respect of the Company Chair, Audit and Risk Committee Andrew Williams from 1 January 2015 and the Group.
The Committees key responsibilities are: The Board has reviewed the performance of the Committee and is satisfied to review the reporting of financial and that the combined knowledge and other information to the shareholders of experience of its members is such that the the Company and monitor the integrity of Committee discharges its responsibilities the financial statements in an effective, informed and challenging to review the effectiveness and manner.
objectivity of the external audit process, assess the independence of the Auditors Attendance and ensure appropriate policies and The attendance of the Board members for procedures are in place to protect the Audit and Risk Committee is shown on such independence page 83. to review and assess the adequacy of the systems of internal control and risk Tim Brooke is a member of the Audit management which includes monitoring and Risk Committee only and is not the Companys Internal Audit function a Non-Executive Director of Capita and monitor the risk profile of the business plc.
Tim Brooke is an independent to report to the Board on how it has non-executive chair of Capitas Financial discharged its responsibilities.
Tim Brookes primary role is to provide quarterly The Audit Committees terms of reference feedback to the Committee from the set out in full the role, responsibilities Financial Services Risk Committee.
and authority of the Committee and can He attended three meetings of the Audit be found on the Companys website at and Risk Committee during 2014. www.
These were reviewed and updated during the year.
Set out below is a summary of the work carried out by the Committee Committee activities during 2014 Audit and Risk Committee meetings are by The Committee met nine times during invitation and generally attended by: the the year.
Meetings are planned around the Non-Executive Chairman: Group Finance financial calendar for the Company.
Reports Director: Group Risk & Compliance Director: are received at all meetings from the Group the Group Internal Audit Director and by Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit representatives of the external Auditors.
departments and new contract terms are also reviewed from a risk and accounting perspective as appropriate.
2 Tim Brooke is independent to Capita and brings his expertise in the Financial Services sector to support the Committee.
He is not an independent Non-Executive Director of Capita.
Tim Brookes primary role is to provide quarterly feedback to the Committee and the link with the Financial Services Risk Committee.
3 Paul is a Chartered Accountant, with recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit and Risk Committees.
Capita plc 87 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 86 Capita plc 87 Audit and Risk Committee report I am pleased to present the report on the The Chairman of the Committee is directly During the year, the Committee reviewed a During the year, the Committee undertook activities of the Audit and Risk Committee available to and holds regular meetings wide range of financial reporting and related the following activities: for the year to 31 December 2014. with the Group Finance Director, Group matters, in addition to the review of the Risk & Compliance Director, Company Internal Controls Received and considered reports from the Group Internal Audit half-year and annual accounts prior to their Members: Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the and Risk Director on the audit programme and the resulting actions submission to the Board.
The Committee, Paul Bowtell Chair 1 3 Committee, the Group Internal Audit focused in particular on critical accounting Review of foreign operations risk assessment Director and external Auditors.
policies and practices adopted by the Group Gillian Sheldon1 Review of qualifications and training given to individuals in and any significant areas of judgement that Carolyn Fairbairn from 13 May 2014 1 control areas Role and responsibilities materially impact on reported results.
Tim Brooke2 The Audit and Risk Committee assists Met with the Group Risk & Compliance Director, Group Company Martina King until 12 May 2014 1 the Board in fulfilling its oversight At each meeting, an update was also Paul Bowtell Secretary and Group Internal Audit Director independently of responsibilities in respect of the Company received from Group Risk & Compliance and Chair, Audit and Risk Committee Andrew Williams from 1 January 2015 Executive Directors and the Group.
The Committees key Group Internal Audit.
Monitoring the internal controls that are operated by management responsibilities are: The Board has reviewed the performance to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders The Committee is responsible for the of the Committee and is satisfied to review the reporting of financial and policies on whistleblowing speak up and that the combined knowledge and other information to the shareholders of Review the schedule of the internal audits for the remainder of the provision of the non-audit services experience of its members is such that the the Company and monitor the integrity of the year by the external Auditor.
Both policies are Committee discharges its responsibilities the financial statements Review of major contract wins from a risk and accounting published on the Companys intranet in an effective, informed and challenging to review the effectiveness and perspective and internet www.
objectivity of the external audit process, Committee also receives feedback from the Review of the business plan for Risk & Compliance and assess the independence of the Auditors Group Financial Services Risk Committee Internal Audit Attendance and ensure appropriate policies and that brings together all the regulated areas The attendance of the Board members for procedures are in place to protect Continual review of available reporting on Group safety, health within the Group.
the Audit and Risk Committee is shown on such independence and environment page 83. to review and assess the adequacy of 2014 saw the continuation of a programme Requested presentations from each Divisional Director on the risks the systems of internal control and risk to continually improve our risk management within their business and the approaches taken to mitigate them Tim Brooke is a member of the Audit management which includes monitoring framework to better support the ongoing and Risk Committee only and is not Continued the programme to refresh our overall risk management the Companys Internal Audit function development of the business.
Further detail a Non-Executive Director of Capita framework to better support the ongoing development of and monitor the risk profile of the business is shown on page 38 of the strategic report.
Tim Brooke is an independent the business to report to the Board on how it has non-executive chair of Capitas Financial discharged its responsibilities.
Reviewed the activities and minutes of the Group Financial Services Significant issues in relation to the Services Risk Committee.
Tim Brookes Risk Committee and receive an update from the Group Financial financial statements considered by the primary role is to provide quarterly The Audit Committees terms of reference Services Risk Committee Chairman on a quarterly basis.
Audit and Risk Committee feedback to the Committee from the set out in full the role, responsibilities Revenue and profit recognition Financial Services Risk Committee.
External Auditors Considered and approved the audit approach and scope of audit and authority of the Committee and can The Group is successful in signing new and He attended three meetings of the Audit to be undertaken by KPMG be found on the Companys website at renewed contracts.
Due to the size and and Risk Committee during 2014.
Meeting independently of Executive Directors www.
These were complexity of some of these contracts, reviewed and updated during the year.
there are judgements and estimates to Set out below is a summary of the work Received updates and summaries of audit findings be applied, including the measurement carried out by the Committee Considered the level of non-audit services being provided to satisfy Committee activities during 2014 and timing of revenue recognition and the Audit and Risk Committee meetings are by itself that the objectivity and independence was safeguarded The Committee met nine times during recognition of assets and liabilities that invitation and generally attended by: the the year.
Meetings are planned around the result from the performance of the contract.
Non-Executive Chairman: Group Finance Review and approval of the representation letter financial calendar for the Company.
Reports Director: Group Risk & Compliance Director: Reviewed the audit planning for the annual audit.
are received at all meetings from the Group The Audit and Risk Committee receives a the Group Internal Audit Director and by Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit summary presentation for all new major Accounting, Review and recommendation of the annual report and accounts representatives of the external Auditors.
departments and new contract terms are contracts.
These reports include an overall tax and financial and the half-yearly accounts including the financial and nonalso reviewed from a risk and accounting summary of the contract, the financial reporting financial aspects, including a review of the significant accounting perspective as appropriate.
projections, and key risks and assumptions.
policies and to ensure these accounts give a fair, balanced and clear The proposed accounting is considered presentation of the performance of the Group by the Group Finance Director and the Corporate Governance updates in relation to matters pertaining to Committee to ensure compliance with the scope of the Committee the Groups accounting policies and to understand their impact on the financial Review of the disclosures of internal controls, risk management and statements.
Technical advice is taken where principal risks and uncertainties within the report and accounts.
necessary from the Groups technical 1 Independent Non-Executive Director.
accounting team and views discussed with 2 Tim Brooke is independent to Capita and brings his expertise in the Financial Services sector to support the the external Auditor.
Capita plc 88 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 89 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Major contracts continue to be monitored Carrying value of goodwill through the management operations and intangibles Acquisition business review and any serious issues The Group has a significant goodwill process: identified in respect of these contracts are balance representing consideration paid referred back to the Committee as required.
in excess of the fair value of the identified net assets acquired.
The net assets The Committee has also reviewed the acquired include intangible assets which external Auditors findings and where are determined at the date of acquisition.
necessary sought further confirmation The Committee recognises that there is a or explanation from the Group Finance risk that businesses can become impaired, Director and the Board to concur that the for example, due to market changes or Introduction via Capita revenue and profit recognition is appropriate divisions, external product life-cycles.
As a result, the Group intermediaries or and related assets held on the balance monitors carrying values of goodwill direct approach sheet are recoverable.
The Committee and intangibles to ensure that they are also consider the sufficiency of related recoverable and any specific indicators disclosures in the financial statements.
of goodwill or intangible impairment are discussed in the monthly operating boards.
Acquisition activity and accounting Significant acquisitions are approved by This carrying value of goodwill is subject the Board to ensure that the acquisition to impairment testing, on an annual is in line with Group strategy and basis.
The carrying value of goodwill Central acquisitions that sufficient due diligence has been team apply pricing and and intangible assets are reviewed on process disciplines undertaken in order to understand the the identification of a possible indicator business being acquired and that any of impairment, to ensure that carrying identified risks are quantified, explained amounts are recoverable.
including the key assumptions and sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the The Audit and Risk Committee receive Group Finance Director and Group acquisition reports which detail the nature, Financial Controller.
profitability and risk profile of potential Detailed due diligence acquisitions.
As part of the on-boarding The Committee has reviewed the rationale, pricing, of acquisitions into the business, the Group external Auditors report and, where integration synergies Finance Director and Group Financial necessary, sought further confirmation through dedicated Capita Controller review the accounting policies or explanation from the Board and teams: Risk, Finance, HR, of each acquisition and whether they are specifically the Group Finance Director Tax, IT, Legal etc.
Any difference External advisors and Group Financial Controller, to ensure where required is recognised in the opening balance sheet to that the value of goodwill and the ensure consistency.
The assets and liabilities disclosures included in these financial are reviewed to ensure that they are fairly statements are appropriate.
The Audit stated and that there is sufficient evidence and Risk Committee, having made these to support any adjustments to carrying enquiries, agrees with management that values including the recognition of any no impairment need be recognised.
The Group Finance Director and Group Financial Underlying and non-underlying Sign off by Controller review the resulting acquired presentation Group Board opening balance sheet for each acquisition.
The Committee remains of the view that The profitability of acquisitions is monitored the presentation of the underlying and through the management operations non-underlying information provides business reviews and any serious issues useful disclosure to aid the understanding identified in respect of these acquisitions of the performance of the Group.
are referred back to the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the Completion acquisition disclosure in the financial statements in conjunction with the 80-90% of ideas external Auditors findings and where screened out necessary sought further confirmation during process or explanation from the Board in order to conclude that the disclosures are appropriate and that acquisition accounting has been appropriately applied.
Capita plc 89 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 88 Capita plc 89 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Major contracts continue to be monitored Carrying value of goodwill The major considerations when reviewing The Committee reviews the presentation Materiality through the management operations and intangibles the presentation of the non-underlying of any divestment or planned closures Materiality is important in determining Acquisition business review and any serious issues The Group has a significant goodwill items being the items labelled as of businesses in the year and whether the risk attached to any judgement.
process: identified in respect of these contracts are balance representing consideration paid non-underlying and business disposal they are properly disclosed in the report Audit materiality is set with the external referred back to the Committee as required.
in excess of the fair value of the identified closure are: and accounts.
They were satisfied in this Auditor to ensure that the Audit and net assets acquired.
The net assets regard that the item presented this year Risk Committee is informed of individual the nature of the item: The Committee has also reviewed the acquired include intangible assets which the disposal of part of the Occupational items above a certain threshold that the circumstances leading external Auditors findings and where are determined at the date of acquisition.
Health business was consistent with are most likely to have an impact on to recognition: necessary sought further confirmation The Committee recognises that there is a disclosures previously included in the the financial statements.
The Audit and the impact on the financial statements or explanation from the Group Finance risk that businesses can become impaired, financial statements.
Risk Committee reviews the external with regard to the requirement for Director and the Board to concur that the for example, due to market changes or Auditors report and the individual items Introduction via Capita a fair and balanced presentation of revenue and profit recognition is appropriate divisions, external product life-cycles.
As a result, the Group Other issues in relation to the financial that breach the materiality thresholds performance: and intermediaries or and related assets held on the balance monitors carrying values of goodwill statements considered by the Audit and assess their relative impact on the direct approach sheet are recoverable.
The Committee and intangibles to ensure that they are where management and the and Risk Committee reported statements: income statement, also consider the sufficiency of related recoverable and any specific indicators Committee concur with a need to Defined benefit pension liabilities balance sheet, statement of changes in disclosures in the financial statements.
of goodwill or intangible impairment are separately disclose certain items to The measurement of the defined benefit equity and cash flow as well as the notes discussed in the monthly operating boards.
fully understand and give clarity to the liability in respect of defined benefit to the accounts.
Acquisition activity and accounting continued activities of the Group.
pension schemes is a complex area, relying Significant acquisitions are approved by This carrying value of goodwill is subject on assumptions on inflation, mortality, The Committee requests further the Board to ensure that the acquisition to impairment testing, on an annual In keeping with the above, the Audit returns on corporate bonds, expectations clarification from both the external is in line with Group strategy and basis.
The carrying value of goodwill Committee have reviewed the items of returns on assets and a number of other Auditor, the Group Finance Director and Central acquisitions that sufficient due diligence has been team apply pricing and and intangible assets are reviewed on included in the non-underlying inputs.
There is risk in any one of these Group Financial Controller as to the nature process disciplines undertaken in order to understand the the identification of a possible indicator columns alongside consideration of any areas of misstatement of the Groups of these items and also their relative business being acquired and that any of impairment, to ensure that carrying representations made by the external liability in respect of these obligations and importance in the financial statements.
identified risks are quantified, explained amounts are recoverable.
Having completed the exercise, the pension charge that is recognised in and understood.
including the key assumptions and the Committee were able to determine the income statement.
After having made such enquiries, the sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the that the disclosure met with the Audit and Risk Committee are satisfied The Audit and Risk Committee receive Group Finance Director and Group requirements of fairness and balance and The Committee reviews the disclosures that materiality has been applied correctly acquisition reports which detail the nature, Financial Controller.
where extra disclosure was required, it has in the financial statements, along with in the accounts and that material items profitability and risk profile of potential been included in the financial statements.
the external Auditors report and receives brought to their attention remain Detailed due diligence acquisitions.
As part of the on-boarding The Committee has reviewed the representations from the Group Finance unadjusted where their inclusion would rationale, pricing, of acquisitions into the business, the Group external Auditors report and, where In the current year 2014, further disclosure Director and external Auditor with regard not cause detriment to the overall reading integration synergies Finance Director and Group Financial necessary, sought further confirmation has been provided in recognition of the to the assumptions included in the of the financial statements.
through dedicated Capita Controller review the accounting policies or explanation from the Board and significance of two items.
These items are valuation and their relative impact.
teams: Risk, Finance, HR, of each acquisition and whether they are specifically the Group Finance Director where provision has been made in respect Disclosure of information to Auditor Tax, IT, Legal etc.
Any difference External advisors and Group Financial Controller, to ensure of matters arising in our Asset Services Having made these enquiries, the The Directors who held office at the date where required is recognised in the opening balance sheet to that the value of goodwill and the business and are disclosed in aggregate as Committee determined that the of the approval of this Directors report ensure consistency.
The assets and liabilities disclosures included in these financial Asset Services settlements.
valuation of the pension obligation confirm that, so far as they are each aware, are reviewed to ensure that they are fairly statements are appropriate.
The Audit and the accompanying disclosure is there is no relevant audit information of stated and that there is sufficient evidence and Risk Committee, having made these The two matters are as follows: in line with expectations.
which the Companys Auditor is unaware: to support any adjustments to carrying enquiries, agrees with management that and each Director has taken all steps that the potential costs in resolving a claim values including the recognition of any no impairment need be recognised.
Provisions they ought to have taken as a Director to by those investors who did not choose previously unrecognised balances.
The There is judgement applied in the level make themselves aware of any relevant to accept the Arch Cru Payment Scheme Group Finance Director and Group Financial Underlying and non-underlying of provisioning across the Group.
This audit information and to establish that established in 2011.
The Payment Scheme Sign off by Controller review the resulting acquired presentation involves making an assessment of the the Companys Auditor is aware of that has had an 87% acceptance rate Group Board opening balance sheet for each acquisition.
The Committee remains of the view that size and timing of probable economic information.
the potential costs in resolving matters The profitability of acquisitions is monitored the presentation of the underlying and outflows due to the occurrence of a past relating to a fund, of which CFM was the through the management operations non-underlying information provides event.
The Committee has reviewed the Operator until September 2009, when it business reviews and any serious issues useful disclosure to aid the understanding disclosure in the financial statements and, was replaced by an unrelated company identified in respect of these acquisitions of the performance of the Group.
where necessary, made enquiries of the as Operator following which CFM had no are referred back to the Committee.
Group Finance Director and management further involvement with the fund.
The to gain an understanding of the amounts fund went into liquidation in 2012 and its The Committee has reviewed the recorded.
The Committee is satisfied that Completion liquidator has brought a claim against both acquisition disclosure in the financial the disclosure in the accounts is sufficient former Operators.
statements in conjunction with the to gain an understanding of the nature of 80-90% of ideas external Auditors findings and where these provisions and their impact on the screened out Giving due consideration to these claims, necessary sought further confirmation financial statements.
during process the Group has made a provision of 24.8m or explanation from the Board in at 31 December 2014 2013: 0.7m.
order to conclude that the disclosures are appropriate and that acquisition accounting has been appropriately applied.
Capita plc 90 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 91 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Statutory Auditor Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided External Auditor re-appointment The Committee provides a forum is a fundamental criterion in the selection The Companys audit services were last for reporting by the Groups Auditor of any third party auditor for assignments subject to a tender process in 2010 at KPMG, and it advises the Board on with which the Group is involved.
Such which time KPMG Audit Plc, subsequently the appointment, independence and conflicts may arise across public or KPMG LLP, replaced Ernst & Young LLP as objectivity of the Auditor and on the private sector clients and key supplier the Groups Auditor.
The lead audit partner remuneration for both statutory audit relationships, for example, and are a key is rotated on a five-yearly basis.
There are and non-audit work.
It also discussed the determinant in the award process for no contractual obligations which restrict nature, scope and timing of the statutory external audit assignments.
the Committees choice of auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee annually performs an Non-audit fees The Code states that FTSE 350 companies independent assessment of the suitability The Committee has established a policy should tender the provision of audit and performance of the Auditor in making on the provision of services by the services at least every 10 years or explain its recommendation to the Board for their Groups Auditor.
The policy describes the their approach, if different.
circumstances in which the Auditor may Audit Plc notified the Company that they be permitted to undertake non-audit were not seeking reappointment.
This The external Auditor attends all meetings work for the Group.
The Committee was to facilitate the orderly wind down of the Committee and reports to the oversees compliance with the policy of the business of KPMG Audit Plc.
At the Committee on the statutory reporting, and considers and approves requests to 2014 AGM, KPMG LLP were approved as non-audit fees and ongoing audit items.
use the Auditor for non-audit work.
Any Auditors for the Company.
assignment where the expected fee is Auditor independence above 150,000 requires specific approval It is proposed that KPMG LLP be put The Committee takes seriously its from the Committee or a member of the forward as the Auditor of the Company at responsibility to put in place safeguards Committee.
The Company Secretary deals the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to Auditor objectivity and independence.
with day-to-day administration of the and will hold office from the conclusion The Company is committed to ensuring policy, facilitating requests for approval of this meeting until the conclusion of the appropriate independence in its by the Committee.
The Auditor undertook next general meeting at which accounts relationship with the Auditor and various non-audit work such as assistance are laid before the Company, and that their the key safeguards are: on acquisitions and bids across our remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
business in 2014. the Group Finance Director monitors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP the independence of the Auditor as part Non-audit fees are proportionally lower as the Auditor of the Company will be of the Groups assessment of Auditor this year, as a percentage of all fees paid to put forward at the forthcoming Annual effectiveness and reports to the Audit and the external Auditor and the Committee General Meeting.
Risk Committee continued to receive updates throughout the Audit and Risk Committee routinely the year on the level of fees which have Risk management and internal control benchmarks the level of the Group audit been approved where they as an individual The Committee is responsible for reviewing fee against other comparable companies, instance were over the threshold stated the effectiveness of the Groups system both within and outside of the Groups above.
The system of internal sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in control is designed to manage rather than the audit process The policy is reviewed by the Committee eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group Finance Director monitors annually.
Details of audit and non-audit business objectives and can only provide the level and nature of non-audit fees fees are given in note 7 on page 127. reasonable and not absolute assurance accruing to the Auditor, and specific against material misstatement or loss.
The assignments are discussed in advance with External Auditor performance Board has established a clear organisational the Auditor and flagged for the approval The Committee discussed the structure with defined authority levels.
of the Audit and Risk Committee, as performance of KPMG during the period The day-to-day running of the Groups appropriate, and in accordance with the and was satisfied that the level of business is delegated to the Executive Companys policy on the provision of noncommunication and reporting was in line Directors of the Company.
The Executive audit services by the Auditor.
This also included a Directors meet with both operational and Risk Committee reviews, in aggregate, review of effectiveness and quality of the and finance management on a monthly non-audit fees of this nature on a sixaudit process.
The evaluation of KPMG basis through the Groups programme of monthly basis and considers implications also included the planning of the audit and monthly operating board meetings where for the objectivity and independence of a post-audit evaluation.
key financial and operational measures are the relationship with the Auditor.
reported on a monthly basis and measured against both business plan budget and monthly re-forecasts.
Capita plc 91 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 90 Capita plc 91 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Statutory Auditor Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided External Auditor re-appointment The Committee have implemented a A refresh of the overall Risk Management There were no significant weaknesses The Committee provides a forum is a fundamental criterion in the selection The Companys audit services were last programme of agenda items that give Framework took place during 2013 and identified in the year, but a number of for reporting by the Groups Auditor of any third party auditor for assignments subject to a tender process in 2010 at them the opportunity to hear on a more was approved by the Board in May 2014. recommendations were acted upon within KPMG, and it advises the Board on with which the Group is involved.
Such which time KPMG Audit Plc, subsequently regular basis from the Managing Directors This enhanced risk framework introduced the Group to strengthen in-place controls the appointment, independence and conflicts may arise across public or KPMG LLP, replaced Ernst & Young LLP as of the Groups divisions to determine the a defined set of risk categories which form or risk awareness.
The Committee remains objectivity of the Auditor and on the private sector clients and key supplier the Groups Auditor.
The lead audit partner risks inherent in those businesses and to the basis of defining the Groups appetite satisfied that the Groups systems of remuneration for both statutory audit relationships, for example, and are a key is rotated on a five-yearly basis.
There are understand how risk and control processes to risk.
In establishing this tolerance and internal controls work well and that there and non-audit work.
It also discussed the determinant in the award process for no contractual obligations which restrict work in their areas.
critical limit concern risk appetite, the is sufficient flexibility in the resources nature, scope and timing of the statutory external audit assignments.
Committee is able to maintain governance required to complete a full and targeted audit with the Auditor.
The Audit and On an annual basis, through the business over the principle risks to the Group and programme of internal audit work, within a Risk Committee annually performs an Non-audit fees The Code states that FTSE 350 companies planning process, each business unit is ensure effective mitigation is in place.
group of Capitas size, are in place.
independent assessment of the suitability The Committee has established a policy should tender the provision of audit required to prepare a risk assessment and performance of the Auditor in making on the provision of services by the services at least every 10 years or explain process on the key strategic, operational, Internal audit Anti-bribery and whistleblowing its recommendation to the Board for their Groups Auditor.
In 2013, KPMG financial and accounting risks to identify, The Groups finance department includes speak up re-appointment.
circumstances in which the Auditor may Audit Plc notified the Company that they evaluate and manage the significant risks a separate internal audit function which Capita has a Group-wide anti-bribery and be permitted to undertake non-audit were not seeking reappointment.
This to the Groups business.
They include is managed by a qualified auditor.
A full corruption policy, which is in compliance The external Auditor attends all meetings work for the Group.
The Committee was to facilitate the orderly wind down common definitions of risk and ensure, programme of internal audit visits has with the Bribery Act 2010.
It periodically of the Committee and reports to the oversees compliance with the policy of the business of KPMG Audit Plc.
At the as far as practicable, that the policies and been completed during the year.
The scope reviews its procedures to ensure continued Committee on the statutory reporting, and considers and approves requests to 2014 AGM, KPMG LLP were approved as procedures established by the Board are of audit work generally focuses on internal effective compliance in its businesses non-audit fees and ongoing audit items.
appropriate to manage the perceived risks management control and risk procedures around the world.
assignment where the expected fee is to the Group.
that are operating with each of the Groups Auditor independence above 150,000 requires specific approval It is proposed that KPMG LLP be put businesses, but is continually reviewed The policy provides the framework The Committee takes seriously its from the Committee or a member of the forward as the Auditor of the Company at These assessments are supplemented by and challenged to ensure that the work it to encourage and give employees responsibility to put in place safeguards Committee.
The Company Secretary deals the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a detailed evaluation of the key financial undertakes is focused on the areas of risk confidence to blow the whistle and to Auditor objectivity and independence.
with day-to-day administration of the and will hold office from the conclusion controls of the business units which are to the Group.
Employees are The Company is committed to ensuring policy, facilitating requests for approval of this meeting until the conclusion of the critically reviewed by the Groups Director encouraged to raise concerns with appropriate independence in its by the Committee.
The Auditor undertook next general meeting at which accounts of Risk & Compliance.
During the year, Written reports are prepared on the designated individuals, including the relationship with the Auditor and various non-audit work such as assistance are laid before the Company, and that their the risk assessment process revealed no results of internal audit work during the Executive Directors or the Chairman of the key safeguards are: on acquisitions and bids across our remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
significant risks of which the Board was not year and submitted alongside verbal the Audit and Risk Committee.
All such business in 2014. previously aware.
updates of in-progress activity to the Audit reports will be investigated and reported the Group Finance Director monitors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP and Risk Committee by the Group Internal to the Committee, together with details the independence of the Auditor as part Non-audit fees are proportionally lower as the Auditor of the Company will be The risks and uncertainties which are Audit Director.
The representations given of corrective action taken.
The Groups of the Groups assessment of Auditor this year, as a percentage of all fees paid to put forward at the forthcoming Annual currently judged to have the most would set out strengths and weaknesses whistleblowing policy is monitored by the effectiveness and reports to the Audit and the external Auditor and the Committee General Meeting.
significant impact on the Groups long identified during the work, together with Committee and incidences are reported Risk Committee continued to receive updates throughout term performance are set out on pages any recommendations for remedial action on in each meeting by the Group Risk & the Audit and Risk Committee routinely the year on the level of fees which have Risk management and internal control 42 to 44.
The Committee has reviewed or further review.
benchmarks the level of the Group audit been approved where they as an individual The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk fee against other comparable companies, instance were over the threshold stated the effectiveness of the Groups system management and internal control systems.
The reports are reviewed and discussed both within and outside of the Groups above.
The system of internal A refresh of the overall risk management with Executive Directors to whom they Paul Bowtell sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in control is designed to manage rather than framework commenced in 2013 was pertain.
Throughout the year, the Group Chairman the audit process The policy is reviewed by the Committee eliminate the risk of failure to achieve continued in 2014 and this constant Internal Audit Director reports on the work Audit and Risk Committee the Group Finance Director monitors annually.
Details of audit and non-audit business objectives and can only provide challenge and refocusing will continue in carried out to date and the in-flight work 25 February 2015 the level and nature of non-audit fees fees are given in note 7 on page 127. reasonable and not absolute assurance order to identify and develop any response to be completed.
accruing to the Auditor, and specific against material misstatement or loss.
The to a change in the Groups risk profile.
assignments are discussed in advance with External Auditor performance Board has established a clear organisational The Committee reviews managements the Auditor and flagged for the approval The Committee discussed the structure with defined authority levels.
The Board, with the advice of the response to the matters raised and ensures of the Audit and Risk Committee, as performance of KPMG during the period The day-to-day running of the Groups Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness that any action is commensurate with appropriate, and in accordance with the and was satisfied that the level of business is delegated to the Executive of the risk management and internal the level of risk identified, whether real Companys policy on the provision of noncommunication and reporting was in line Directors of the Company.
The Executive control systems and is satisfied that or perceived.
audit services by the Auditor.
This also included a Directors meet with both operational the Group has in place effective risk and Risk Committee reviews, in aggregate, review of effectiveness and quality of the and finance management on a monthly management and internal control systems.
non-audit fees of this nature on a sixaudit process.
