Capita plc 36 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes A key element in Capitas business model is the approach we take to supporting and controlling growth.
Clear policies, procedures and robust systems are embedded across finance, operations, governance and risk management, led by an inspiring, strong management team.
Adapting to these changes, we have Business management Effective controls and continued to successfully operate Capitas overall Group business strategy risk management our business, track our performance and model is based on the Boards Managing our business and manage the risks arising through strategic direction and risk appetite, Our flat management structure, robust our robust management and together with the input of divisional processes, and strong governance governance structures.
managers who remain close to their procedures promote accountability markets and best understand the across the business.
Our approach continues to be to provide challenges and opportunities within all levels of management with a clear them.
A similar approach is adopted Monthly Operating Board MOB reviews line of sight to, and responsibility for, the for acquisitions, where potential targets are the formal process through which performance of their particular business, are identified either divisionally, to we manage financial and operational development of market opportunities bolster specific propositions, or by the reporting from across the business.
and management of the key risks.
Group Executive Board as part of a more More informal collaboration is also These structures develop over time and strategic direction for the business overall.
encouraged through day-to-day reporting, 2014 has seen further enhancements The allocation of investment capital team working mechanisms and our put into place.
The core objective of this both internally and externally is carefully incentive structures.
approach remains the same: to underpin considered to ensure sensible returns and the success of the businesses as a whole achieve real value for the business.
This straightforward reporting structure while promoting a culture of transparency and culture of collaboration promotes and responsibility at every level.
Every year, individual divisions develop knowledge sharing, encourages their own business plans and strategy entrepreneurship and ensures robust within the overall Group strategy.
service delivery for our clients.
These are then reviewed and challenged by the Board before being consolidated Robust, straightforward structure into the Capita-wide plan.
2014 has seen Capita continue to grow and diversify its operational and Having set the strategic direction for the regulatory footprint.
In addition, the business, the Board monitors the ongoing outsourcing sector has seen increased achievement of these underlying goals.
scrutiny by stakeholders of the role that This is primarily the responsibility of the outsourcers play in delivering services.
Joint Chief Operating Officers COOs to These have included: whom the divisional executive directors Reports by the Public Accounts report on a regular basis: the Joint COOs Committee and others into various in turn report to the Group Board.
aspects of public sector outsourcing which have emphasised the need for greater transparency, demonstrable control over outsourcers and demonstrating cost effectiveness: and Increased work by the Financial Having set the strategic direction for the business, Conduct Authority into outsourcing the Board monitors the ongoing achievement of by asset managers, the results of these underlying goals.
which are often applied across all FCA regulated businesses.
Capita plc 37 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes Management and governance structure A key element in Capitas business model is the approach we take to supporting and controlling growth.
Clear policies, procedures and robust systems are embedded across finance, operations, Corporate Performance Risk and Leadership and and Business Reporting and governance and risk management, led by an Governance Management Development Review inspiring, strong management team.
Nomination Committee Adapting to these changes, we have Business management Effective controls and MOB Review continued to successfully operate Capitas overall Group business strategy risk management Group Board Group Board Acquisitions & Major Bids our business, track our performance and model is based on the Boards Managing our business 5 Executive and Executive Directors Gateway Black Hat Remuneration Committee and manage the risks arising through strategic direction and risk appetite, Our flat management structure, robust 4 Non-executive & process & sign-off our robust management and together with the input of divisional processes, and strong governance Directors Divisional Directors & governance structures.
managers who remain close to their procedures promote accountability SMTs representatives Audit & Risk Committee markets and best understand the across the business.
A similar approach is adopted Monthly Operating Board MOB reviews line of sight to, and responsibility for, the for acquisitions, where potential targets are the formal process through which performance of their particular business, are identified either divisionally, to we manage financial and operational Central Acquisition development of market opportunities bolster specific propositions, or by the Executive Level Risk reporting from across the business.
Executive Board team and management of the key risks.
Group Executive Board as part of a more Committee More informal collaboration is also Group Executive & These structures develop over time and strategic direction for the business overall.
encouraged through day-to-day reporting, Directors Central Business 2014 has seen further enhancements The allocation of investment capital team working mechanisms and our Senior Corporate & Development team put into place.
Business Development approach remains the same: to underpin considered to ensure sensible returns and & Divisional Executive the success of the businesses as a whole achieve real value for the business.
Qualification due This straightforward reporting structure Directors while promoting a culture of transparency diligence & process and culture of collaboration promotes and responsibility at every level.
Divisional Risk, Divisional Senior Receiving Division These are then reviewed and challenged Pre-MOB Divisional Compliance & Audit Management Teams & Business Unit by the Board before being consolidated Robust, straightforward structure reviews Committees SMTs SMTs into the Capita-wide plan.
2014 has seen Capita continue to grow and diversify its operational and Due diligence & review Having set the strategic direction for the regulatory footprint.
Business Unit Risk Divisional Business Unit Joint Chief Operating Officers COOs to Business Unit reviews These have included: Committees SMTs whom the divisional executive directors Reports by the Public Accounts report on a regular basis: the Joint COOs Committee and others into various in turn report to the Group Board.
aspects of public sector outsourcing which have emphasised the need for greater transparency, demonstrable control over outsourcers and demonstrating cost effectiveness: and Policy, process oversight Application of strategy Robust qualification Consistent & timely Increased work by the Financial Having set the strategic direction for the business, Risk Business planning Sensible capital allocation Performance reporting Conduct Authority into outsourcing the Board monitors the ongoing achievement of by asset managers, the results of Compliance Performance tracking against plan Reward risk ratio Early issues these underlying goals.
which are often applied across all Internal audit Capital management Business appetite Highlight & resolution FCA regulated businesses.
Robust cash collection Deliverability Resource review & planning Profitable growth Against projects plan Capita plc 38 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Performance management In addition, MOB reviews provide a Our overall business management, structured and consistent line of sight from financial and operational reporting from Board level down to the businesses within across the Group is managed through our each division and have proven to allow a Monthly Operating Board MOB reviews.
quicker development of opportunities and resolution of issues.
Initially, the performance of a divisions business units is collated and discussed Risk management at pre-MOB meetings, chaired by the Controlled risk taking is fundamental to divisional executive director, where their the organisations success, ensuring that team reports on business and financial risks and rewards are balanced in the performance, business opportunities pursuit of sustainable, profitable growth.
and, importantly, any client or Capita is not risk averse, it looks to actively operational challenges.
manage risks which it has scrutinised and has an appetite for within our underlying This information is then provided by the risk and tolerance framework.
individual divisional executive directors to the Executive Group Board through the main MOB meetings.
Reporting business operations through this process allows the Executive team to fully understand financial performance and projected outturns, key business opportunities and risks on a month-by-month basis.
New Risk Management Framework a group-led common risk framework The risk appetite has been overhauled to During 2014 the Group Board approved that protects the business from provide a clearer definition, across 22 risk a new Risk Management Framework.
unnecessary risk exposure, whilst categories, of the Boards tolerance to risk The Board recognised that the approach still allowing divisional and business and therefore where actions to mitigate to risk management which had management to operate with sufficient risks beyond tolerance need to be taken.
successfully served the group through flexibility to react to market needs A single approach to risk reporting at all recent growth required renewal.
levels of business is starting to provide a common risk management This was to reflect the increased size greater clarity of the risk profile to a infrastructure that supports the and complexity of our businesses and refreshed risk governance framework.
organisation in the performance of its the on-going desire to balance risk and risk responsibilities opportunity.
It also reflects our belief During 2014 we have commenced the a governance structure with that effective risk management underpins implementation of the Framework appropriate transparency and the delivery of the right outcomes across our businesses, replacing visibility into the organisations risk for our clients and end customers.
our legacy risk measurement and management practices.
The new framework is centred on four reporting with the new approach.
key elements: This implementation phase will run into 2015. a common definition of risk that is used consistently throughout the organisation Risk Management Framework Risk Risk Governance appetite methodology model Capita plc 39 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Performance management In addition, MOB reviews provide a We believe that conducting our business Our risk management activities seek to Control functions Our overall business management, structured and consistent line of sight from with integrity, applying a high level of skill, protect the business from unnecessary risk The Group Risk & Compliance function: financial and operational reporting from Board level down to the businesses within care and diligence to what we do, services exposure, whilst still allowing divisional has specific responsibilities and acts on across the Group is managed through our each division and have proven to allow a the interests of all our stakeholders.
and business management to operate behalf of the Board.
Monthly Operating Board MOB reviews.
quicker development of opportunities and This allows us to grow in a controlled with sufficient flexibility to react to market resolution of issues.
manner, and achieve our business goals.
It also helps us demonstrate to The Group Risk & Compliance Director Initially, the performance of a divisions clients, end customers and regulators has access to all members of the Board business units is collated and discussed Risk management The risks Capita faces evolve over time how we take our responsibilities seriously.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors at pre-MOB meetings, chaired by the Controlled risk taking is fundamental to as a result of both the changing size and supports their ongoing training divisional executive director, where their the organisations success, ensuring that and complexity of our business and its As Capitas business model devolves plan.
He also has regular meetings with team reports on business and financial risks and rewards are balanced in the services but also through changes in the certain authority and responsibility to the Executive and Divisional Directors performance, business opportunities pursuit of sustainable, profitable growth.
external legal, economic and regulatory business management at all levels, risk throughout the year.
The remit of and, importantly, any client or Capita is not risk averse, it looks to actively environment.
In 2014, we have seen the management is primarily the responsibility the Group Risk and Compliance operational challenges.
manage risks which it has scrutinised and following developments in the wider of those who are in the best position to function includes: has an appetite for within our underlying risk environment: understand and act effectively.
They apply maintaining and overseeing the This information is then provided by the risk and tolerance framework.
risk management in line with the Groupincreased understanding of the extent implementation and execution of the individual divisional executive directors to wide Risk Policy set to reflect the risk of cyber threats facing UK plc including Group Risk Management Framework.
the Executive Group Board through the appetite set by the Board and within an the activity of hacktivists and those Coordinating business unit risk and main MOB meetings.
Reporting business industry standard three lines of defence seeking fraudulent access to funds, data compliance teams to facilitate Groupoperations through this process allows model.
and information wide risk and compliance the Executive team to fully understand increased European regulation setting the strategic direction for, financial performance and projected in areas such as data protection and and maintaining relationships with our outturns, key business opportunities and asset management various regulators.
Reporting on the risks on a month-by-month basis.
residual risk profile, significant incidents economic pressures raising litigation and regulatory developments to the Audit risk around asset performance and Risk Committee and the Executive UK regulatory developments around Risk Committees.
conduct requiring greater focus on end customer outcomes in financial services and utility industries New Risk Management Framework a group-led common risk framework The risk appetite has been overhauled to increased focus on environmental risks During 2014 the Group Board approved that protects the business from provide a clearer definition, across 22 risk through carbon pricing and energy.
unnecessary risk exposure, whilst categories, of the Boards tolerance to risk See page 42 for details regarding our principal The Board recognised that the approach still allowing divisional and business and therefore where actions to mitigate risk categories to risk management which had management to operate with sufficient risks beyond tolerance need to be taken.
key elements: This implementation phase will run into 2015. a common definition of risk that is used consistently throughout the organisation Risk Management Framework We believe that conducting our business with integrity, applying a high level of skill, care and diligence to what we do, services the interests of all our stakeholders.
Risk Risk Governance Andy Parker appetite methodology model Chief Executive Capita plc 40 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued The Group Internal Audit function: has free and full access to all activities, records, properties and employees throughout the Group.
The Group Internal Audit Director has access to and regular meetings with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and members of the Board.
The remit of the Group Internal Audit function includes: The Groups continuing strategy of controlled reviewing the adequacy and growth through organic contract wins and effectiveness of the Groups governance, processes, controls and risk targeted acquisitions is overseen through the management strategies application of our Risk Management Frameworks providing the Board, the Audit and Risk risk appetite approach during extensive due Committee and all levels of management diligence activities.
with an objective opinion based on the results of its reviews and managements Andy Parker Chief Executive awareness and responsiveness to risk delivery of the Group Internal Audit plan as approved by the Audit and Our risk appetite Capita has established the tolerance and Risk Committee Risk appetite, as defined in our Risk critical limit concern risk appetite to help reporting regularly to the Audit and Management Framework, is the degree of the business to understand the relative Risk Committee and the Executive Risk risk the Company is prepared to accept in significance of any risks faced and better Committees on significant issues, risks the pursuit of its objectives before specific prioritise risk monitoring and control and themes and management progress on action is deemed necessary to reduce it.
Specifically, risk appetite helps addressing them.
22 risk categories have been identified determine the degree of control that and were used to inform a new Groupneeds to be applied to a particular area Divisional risk and compliance teams: wide Risk Appetite which was agreed with of risk.
To focus risk reporting, emphasis support their divisional and business unit the Board in 2014.
In determining the is clearly given to the reporting of risks management with their risk management degree of risk appetite, Capita reconciles that are categorised at uncomfortable or ownership and responsibilities under two thresholds: critical limit to ensure appropriate action the Risk Management Framework.
a risk tolerance: defined as the The divisional risk and compliance bearable level of variation Capita is willing teams are: to accept around specific objectives owned by the businesses within which a risk critical limit concern: defined as they sit, but have escalation routes to the the maximum risk Capita can bear and Group Risk & Compliance Director remain effective in delivering its strategy.
structured and resourced depending on the complexity regulatory footprint of the operations.
Capita plc 41 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued The Group Internal Audit function: has Managing our bids and acquisitions During 2014, we have further Priorities for 2015 free and full access to all activities, records, The Groups continuing strategy of strengthened our Due Diligence and Further developing our group properties and employees throughout controlled growth through organic Integration Policy to introduce: work around Information security the Group.
contract wins and targeted acquisitions and data protection specifically enhanced stress and scenario testing is overseen through the application of in light of the upcoming EU Data centralised record keeping of key data The Group Internal Audit Director has our Risk Management Frameworks risk Protection Regulation.
and assumptions used in significant bids access to and regular meetings with appetite approach during extensive due Continuing to strengthen our more formalised handover of risks the Chairman of the Audit and Risk diligence activities.
business resilience across the identified during due diligence and Committee and members of the Board.
information on key commercials to The remit of the Group Internal Audit In line with our established Group Due Supporting our international receiving Capita business function includes: Diligence and Integration Policy and development by ensuring appropriate The Groups continuing strategy of controlled Acquisition Policy, there are Black Hat greater resourcing and tracking the reviewing the adequacy and standards around employee safety, reviews for all deals.
These structured progress of transition plans agreed.
growth through organic contract wins and effectiveness of the Groups anti-bribery controls and overseas assessments consider the pricing and risk governance, processes, controls and risk targeted acquisitions is overseen through the counterparty risk.
Group Risk & Compliance The Bids & Acquisitions team in Group Risk management strategies application of our Risk Management Frameworks Continuing to support the assist businesses with this due diligence or & Compliance has expanded its work from providing the Board, the Audit and Risk risk appetite approach during extensive due integration of our new acquisitions undertake it directly for our major contract primarily focusing on financial services Committee and all levels of management and contracts.
bids and, together with Group Internal deals, applying a similar level of risk diligence activities.
with an objective opinion based on the Audit, are standing invitees to the key assessment and mitigation across wider results of its reviews and managements Andy Parker decision making meetings, ensuring key Group transactions.
Chief Executive awareness and responsiveness to risk risks are given an appropriate discussion.
delivery of the Group Internal Audit In line with Capita widening its regulatory plan as approved by the Audit and Our risk appetite Capita has established the tolerance and Group Internal Audit undertake reviews footprint, this team has expanded its own Risk Committee Risk appetite, as defined in our Risk critical limit concern risk appetite to help on certain deals post-completion to knowledge and working relationships to reporting regularly to the Audit and Management Framework, is the degree of the business to understand the relative ensure comprehensive due diligence was include regulators such as the Solicitors Risk Committee and the Executive Risk risk the Company is prepared to accept in significance of any risks faced and better carried out and to feed into the conduct Regulation Authority, Ofcom and Ofgem.
Committees on significant issues, risks the pursuit of its objectives before specific prioritise risk monitoring and control of future deals.
and themes and management progress on action is deemed necessary to reduce it.
Specifically, risk appetite helps The Audit and Risk Committee approves addressing them.
22 risk categories have been identified determine the degree of control that Our collective work in assessing the annual plans presented to them by both and were used to inform a new Groupneeds to be applied to a particular area quality of acquisition targets and the Group Internal Audit and Group Risk & Divisional risk and compliance teams: wide Risk Appetite which was agreed with of risk.
To focus risk reporting, emphasis viability of contract bids can lead to us not Compliance detailing the teams priorities support their divisional and business unit the Board in 2014.
In determining the is clearly given to the reporting of risks proceeding on certain transactions and or for the coming year.
management with their risk management degree of risk appetite, Capita reconciles that are categorised at uncomfortable or contract proposals.
This enables us to have ownership and responsibilities under two thresholds: critical limit to ensure appropriate action greater confidence that, amongst other Both teams provide regular updates on the Risk Management Framework.
things, we can translate our bid pipeline their progress throughout the year, with a risk tolerance: defined as the The divisional risk and compliance into profitable and sustainable business regular reports on findings, issues, risk bearable level of variation Capita is willing teams are: serving the interests of Capita, our clients incidents and themes for their attention.
to accept around specific objectives and end customers alike.
The issues that owned by the businesses within which a risk critical limit concern: defined as See page 86 have arisen in 2014 which have, in some they sit, but have escalation routes to the the maximum risk Capita can bear and cases, led to us not proceeding include: Group Risk & Compliance Director remain effective in delivering its strategy.
tax issues on acquisition accounting structured and resourced depending on the complexity regulatory footprint levels of residual operational of the operations.
risks arising contractual terms which we believe are contrary to our best interest.
Capita plc 42 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Principal risk categories We operate a total of 22 risk categories which are kept under regular review.
Those deemed to have significant potential impact or exposure, as identified through the Groups Risk Management Framework, are detailed below: Potential risks and impacts Mitigation activities include 2014 developments Business environment Changes to the political, commercial Focus on widening scope of Successful entry to new markets and or market landscape affect the viability existing contracts sectors for Capita including mortgage of Capita businesses.
Key elements of administration, electronic monitoring Focus on 11 diverse public and Capitas business model fail to adjust to and AXELOS, our public sector subsidiary private sector markets changing market needs on a timely basis partnership with the Cabinet Office Continual work to diversify business and become diluted or obsolete Actively monitored potential political and operations across new private public Actions of competitors impact Capitas other developments sector markets and market segments.
Focus from CEO on innovation and responsiveness to change.
Operational delivery Failure to meet contractual terms, Operating performance indicators in place Significant and complex projects now milestones and service level agreements for all business and key contracts brought within single division to share in major contracts management expertise and learnings Robust contractual and governance regarding robust oversight and support Delivery of contracts fail to meet quality, mechanism help focus right management oversight cost or performance expectations MOB and Risk Committee challenge and support Financial client service penalties and oversight Refreshed risk governance through Mismanagement of complex client Risk-based independent assurance GIA new framework to track issues and relationship structures Cross-relationship operational, technical mitigate earlier.
and commercial oversight and governance.
Duty of care Failure to provide adequate duty of care Safeguarding policy, process and standards Successful introduction of Group-wide to staff, stakeholders, clients and end Safeguarding policy Widespread focus on conduct risk and customers of our services the delivery of end customer outcomes New health & safety and property portal End customer detriment for reporting and issue tracking resolution.
Rigorously applied Group-wide health and Adverse impact on wellbeing of safety policy, process, training and audits our employees Incident management system that Failure of health and safety compliance includes issues around duty of care Failure of clinical governance in our Robust operational monitoring and oversight health-related businesses.
Technical infrastructure and resilience Failure to provide adequate IT services to Adoption of industry standard managed Appointment of CIO to take forward support core services and business needs service standards and controls greater development of Groups IT strategy and central provisioning Loss of core systems technology with Robust business continuity disaster long term impact on client delivery recovery programme Commencement of Group-wide business impact assessments to draw up single view System resilience and stability does Deployment of issue detection software of resilience issues not meet service delivery needs or and resolution practices expectations Acquisitions of Updata and other IT Adoption, where appropriate, of network firms strengthen our core Legacy system maintenance ISO27001 standards network provision Inadequate business continuity Investment into upgraded core IT Development of cloud capability and move disaster recovery arrangement.
of core systems commenced in 2014.
Capita plc 43 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Principal risk categories Potential risks and impacts Mitigation activities include 2014 developments Information security We operate a total of 22 risk categories which are kept under regular review.
Exposures and subsequent contractual Group-wide policies and procedures Refresh of our Group Information Those deemed to have significant potential impact or exposure, as identified and regulatory penalties brought about Security standards Single information security framework through the Groups Risk Management Framework, are detailed below: through failure to protect information Group-wide information threat Risk Committee oversight at all data assets of Capita, our clients or end assessment with assistance of third business levels Potential risks and impacts Mitigation activities include 2014 developments customers from loss, theft, alteration party consultancy Staff training and monitoring programme or destruction Business environment Recognition of importance of Cyber Incident management system Failure in the mechanisms to secure Security risks by Board.
Changes to the political, commercial Focus on widening scope of Successful entry to new markets and Cross-Group forum to evaluate issues or recover sensitive information or market landscape affect the viability existing contracts sectors for Capita including mortgage and effective controls Loss or theft of intellectual property of Capita businesses.
Key elements of administration, electronic monitoring Focus on 11 diverse public and Local divisional skilled specialist Cyber crime.
Capitas business model fail to adjust to and AXELOS, our public sector subsidiary private sector markets information security resource.
changing market needs on a timely basis partnership with the Cabinet Office Continual work to diversify business Human resources and become diluted or obsolete Actively monitored potential political and operations across new private public Failure to attract, manage or retain Comprehensive succession planning Further roll out of our vetting process Actions of competitors impact Capitas other developments sector markets and market segments.
sufficient, skilled or experienced staff to new Capita businesses and internal competitive position.
Focus from CEO on innovation and Continual development and movers to sensitive roles responsiveness to change.
Morale issues impact productivity performance management and innovation Refresh of Speak Up Public Interest Extensive training and development Operational delivery Disclosure Policy Costs of increased excessive turnover for all staff and management Failure to meet contractual terms, Operating performance indicators in place Significant and complex projects now of staff Talent management initiatives Comprehensive screening vetting milestones and service level agreements for all business and key contracts brought within single division to share launched to identify and nurture Impact on Capitas credibility as process in line with roles in major contracts management expertise and learnings Robust contractual and governance existing Capita talent.
an employer Whistleblowing line to ensure any regarding robust oversight and support Delivery of contracts fail to meet quality, mechanism Key person reliance management stretch.
significant staff issues can be reported help focus right management oversight cost or performance expectations MOB and Risk Committee challenge and escalated appropriately.
and support Financial client service penalties and oversight Partnerships third parties outsourcing Refreshed risk governance through Mismanagement of complex client Risk-based independent assurance GIA new framework to track issues and relationship structures Contractual dispute with contracted firms Group outsourcing material suppliers Refresh and roll-out of revamped Cross-relationship operational, technical mitigate earlier.
policy material suppliers policy Loss of contract.
Disruption to supply chain Review of key third party contracts by Greater controls over contract Service interruption where reliance is Duty of care commercial teams documentation and retention placed on the resilience of partner, third Failure to provide adequate duty of care Safeguarding policy, process and standards Successful introduction of Group-wide party or outsourced relationship Monitoring of key outsourced services AXELOS public sector subsidiary to staff, stakeholders, clients and end Safeguarding policy Widespread focus on conduct risk and Service Level Agreements SLAs partnership with Cabinet Office launched Partners and or third parties do not act customers of our services the delivery of end customer outcomes New health & safety and property portal January 2014. within the intended limits of their authority Partnership governance End customer detriment for reporting and issue tracking resolution.
Rigorously applied Group-wide health and or do not perform in a manner consistent Business resilience arrangement of third Adverse impact on wellbeing of safety policy, process, training and audits with Capitas strategies and objectives parties in place to protect key services.
our employees Incident management system that Liabilities for actions of third parties Failure of health and safety compliance includes issues around duty of care Failure in third parties governance Failure of clinical governance in our Robust operational monitoring and oversight inappropriate business practices.
Integration, transition and change Planned synergies failing to Due diligence on broad categorisation Refreshed approach to business Technical infrastructure and resilience achieve targets of risk exposures integration focusing on local management ownership with appropriate oversight.
Detrimental impact on growth Black Hat governance process Failure to provide adequate IT services to Adoption of industry standard managed Appointment of CIO to take forward and performance of business support core services and business needs service standards and controls greater development of Groups IT Group Board review and approval strategy and central provisioning Integration challenges resulting of acquisition and significant bids Loss of core systems technology with Robust business continuity disaster in increased operational risks Commercial and contractual terms long term impact on client delivery recovery programme Commencement of Group-wide business Mispricing of long term major contracts closely reviewed to ensure clarity impact assessments to draw up single view System resilience and stability does Deployment of issue detection software of resilience issues not meet service delivery needs or and resolution practices Impairment of goodwill and intangible Early adoption of MOB & risk expectations Acquisitions of Updata and other IT assets through underperformance or management processes Adoption, where appropriate, of network firms strengthen our core unforeseen developments in acquired Legacy system maintenance ISO27001 standards Emerging risk review and appropriate network provision businesses escalation Inadequate business continuity Investment into upgraded core IT Development of cloud capability and move Multi-stakeholder relationships disaster recovery arrangement.
Integration and transition process of core systems commenced in 2014.
Mismanagement of priority deliverables Strong financial controls operated by and business as usual.
unified financial structure and system Robust change gap analysis activities and remediation planning.
Capita plc 44 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Potential risks and impacts Mitigation activities include 2014 developments Financial exposure Risk of financial loss or failure to operate Strong financial controls operated by a Group Internal Audit reviews of within financial targets as a consequence unified financial structure and system completeness of income across spread of external or internal vulnerabilities of businesses Monthly finances reviewed in MOB Adverse effect on business financial Introduction of My Purchasing process Rigorous capital expenditure approval and performance from, e. g. mispricing, to strengthen procurement controls and monitoring controls performance issues, client dispute or link to invoicing.
Robust procurement process to further changing market landscape strengthen expenditure controls Adverse investor impact share price.
Legal risk Failure to comply with legislative, Commercial and contractual terms closely New Commercial Risk Awareness training contractual, fiduciary, statutory and reviewed to ensure clarity launched for wider business leadership to or judicial requirements enhance knowledge of key contracting Contractual warranty process and commercial risk Criminal liability.
Monitoring and tracking of legislative management.
requirements across all Capita jurisdictions Proactive and reactive Group legal support.
Financial crime Financial impact of fraud Board led anti-corruption and anti-fraud Appointment of new Group Head of culture: zero tolerance approach with Financial Crime Prevention to better Significant civil and criminal penalties robust disciplinary process coordinate Group policies and standards in cases of bribery corruption and subsequent potential prohibition from Formal risk assessment of vulnerabilities Enhanced policies and oversight of public sector contracts financial crime risks in Group to reflect Appropriate policies and procedures growth of Capita into new sectors Exposure to parties exploiting in place including a Group-wide and jurisdictions vulnerabilities through a variety of whistleblowing policy fraudulent or criminal acts Refresher training undertaken for Board Comprehensive training of senior and senior management on bribery risks.
Failure in supervision or corrective management across Capita actions associated with financial crime.
Fraud investigations team to investigate and prosecute cases, identify root causes and embed remedial work.
Regulatory risk Non-compliance of our businesses with Appropriate policies and processes Introduction of consumer credit regulation the requirements of regulated bodies by FCA managed across Group firms Monitoring by compliance teams in in the UK or overseas Group, Divisions and Business units Ongoing relationship with FCA maintained Regulatory, financial and contractual and Internal Audit oversight New regulator for Group firms with the penalties Supervisory teams purchase of a Solicitors Regulatory New regulatory requirements for Authority supervised firm Rigorously applied environmental emerging Capita businesses policy and process Further development of knowledge Non-compliance with environmental of our exposures to Ofcom, Ofgem Measure and manage carbon footprint regulations.
exposure and achieve energy reduction Reduction in paper use and increase in recycling.
Brand and reputation Internal or external activities and events Centralised proactive PR team Further strengthening of management affect Capitas brand or reputation control around key contracts such as the Incident support by internal PR team Recruitment Partnering Project to provide Failure to maintain client or market sector Reactive PR strategy in association with even greater line of sight for Board trust in the Capita brand business, clients and public sector Greater understanding across business of Threat of hostile or sustained media subsidiary partnerships activities of central PR team attention towards Capita businesses and Investor relations strategy to develop and activities or corporate actions Re-launch of Capita values, emphasising maintain open relationships with service delivery excellence and fair Adverse investor impact.
treatment of customers Increased recognition of potential brand and reputation risks through specific inclusion on the risk framework.
