234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 32 Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the The Committee considers that the most significant Audit and Risk Committee Report for the year ended issues faced by the Group with respect to its 31 December 2014.
Financial Statements are: Valuation of Direct Private Investments The Audit and Risk Committee comprises four nonexecutive Directors, all of whom are independent of Related Party Disclosures the Company with myself as Committee Chairman.
I am a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered These issues have been addressed by the Committee Accountants, and was a partner at Deloitte LLP.
chairman of the audit committees of two other public companies, and am considered by the Board to have Valuation of Direct Private Investments appropriate financial experience.
Lord Myners is a Direct private investments make up over 11% of net member of the Committee.
Michael Marks and The assets.
By their very nature such investments merit Duke of Wellington stepped down as members of the individual attention when considering their fair value.
Committee on 14 February 2014 and 30 June 2014 The estimation of their fair value requires the exercise respectively, following the appointment of Mike of considerable judgement and most likely the use of Power on 23 January 2014 and John Makinson on a range of valuation techniques.
The biographies of the Committee means that there is a higher degree of uncertainty in members are set out on page 19. such valuations compared with other assets.
The remit of the Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee has considered the incorporates its focus on the identification and work overseen by the Valuation Committee and the management of risk covering principally financial, results of the discussions of that Committee with operational, reputational and regulatory matters both executive management and the external across the Group.
We consider the work to be detailed, comprehensive and also consider that the persons As part of this role the Committee monitors the risk preparing the reports have sufficient and appropriate profile and tolerance acceptable to the Company and expertise through their experience and qualifications.
set by the Board in delivering the business strategy, Furthermore we believe that the process is planned and ensures this is communicated appropriately and managed so as to devote adequate time and within the Company.
Members of the Committee resource to preparation and review by both executive receive monthly reports detailing investment management and members of the Valuation exposure as well as currency and liquidity positioning Committee.
compared to the Board approved limits.
Related Party Disclosures The Committee also meets on two separate and Related party transactions are a common feature of dedicated occasions to review the effectiveness of commerce and business.
The Company often takes the Groups system of internal controls by reference advantage of opportunities offered to it, or services to reports prepared and compiled by management provided to it via the many relationships it and its and the Groups internal audit function.
The remaining Board of Directors has built up over time.
Disclosure matters in the Audit and Risk Committees Terms of of such transactions is a legal requirement in order to Reference are considered as and when necessary.
allow shareholders and other users of the financial statements to assess the risks and opportunities The Committee monitors the adequacy of the Groups facing the Company.
Any failure to properly address and Parent Companys accounting policies and this requirement could expose the Company to legal, financial reporting, which are discussed with the regulatory or reputational damage.
external auditors,  LLP, at least yearly.
We consider the work of the Conflicts Committee in reviewing cost sharing arrangements, co-investment The Committee meets twice each year to review the transactions and any other similar arrangements with Groups interim and annual financial statements, to parties related to any Director, and have discussed with consider reports thereon from the external auditor executive management the systems and processes in and to review any issues arising with JRCMs place to identify, review, record and disclose such executive management.
We note the importance the 32 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 33 Audit and Risk Committee Report Chairman and executive management place upon The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the this.
We have reviewed the disclosures made in the performance of the auditors at this meeting and financial statements regarding such transactions and recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
consider them to be the result of a process designed Going Concern to ensure that not only are the transactions The Audit and Risk Committee is also responsible for themselves on appropriate terms but that the considering those matters that have informed the necessary disclosures have been made.
Boards assessment of whether the Company is a The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the going concern and which are referred to in the Groups whistleblowing procedures for staff to follow statement on going concern on page 31. in the event that they might have any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The procedures in place provide for staff to have direct recourse to the Audit and Risk Committee, through its Chairman.
John Cornish Independent Auditors Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee The Committee considers the external auditors 26 February 2015 independence, objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit process through a process of formal and informal feedback from executive management.
The level of non-audit services provided to the Group by the auditors is monitored as is the auditors objectivity in providing such services, to ensure that the independence of the audit team from the Group is not compromised.
Non-audit services provided by  LLP in the year ended 31 December 2014 totalled 0.1 million and were primarily in relation to taxation services.
That they were selected for this work was due to their expertise in this sector.
Further information on fees paid to  LLP is contained in note 4 of the financial statements.
 LLP or its antecedent firms have been the Groups auditors since inception and there has not been an audit tender process.
The Committee intends to tender the statutory audit in advance of the required deadline of 2020.
The Committee confirms that the Group has complied with the requirements set out by the competition commission on audit tendering.
The Companys external auditors attended the meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee at which the Report and Accounts was reviewed and reported on their audit approach and work undertaken, the quality and effectiveness of the Companys accounting records and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory audit.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 33
