| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 23 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Directors present the Companys Corporate The Board is responsible for setting the Companys Governance Report.
The biographies of the Directors strategic aims for its long-term success and ensuring and executive management on the pages that the necessary resources are in place to these immediately preceding this report, demonstrate a ends, delegating as appropriate to the executive strength of experience in the areas required to management of JRCM.
In general terms, they are oversee and implement the Companys strategic, responsible for the implementation and execution of investment and operational aims.
the Boards strategic directives relating to investment management, governance and administration.
Many of the Directors hold or have held senior director positions at prominent investment banks, The Board met formally four times in the year ended asset management companies or audit firms 31 December 2014.
The attendance of the Directors specialising in the asset management industry.
In was as follows: addition, there are Directors with considerable No.
of meetings experience beyond these areas, including Member eligible to attend attended Government and general commercial organisations.
Lord Rothschild 4 3 Michael Marks 4 4 This report describes the Companys principal John Cornish 4 4 governance bodies, their composition, purpose and Jean Laurent-Bellue 4 4 operation.
It also covers the other aspects of the 1 Companys governance prescribed under the UK John Makinson 3 3 Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code, to Lord Myners 4 4 2 which the Company is subject and which may be Mike Power 3 3 viewed at www.
The Directors believe that Sandra Robertson 4 3 the Company has complied with the provisions of the Hannah Rothschild 4 4 Code throughout the year, except as described on The Duke of Wellington 4 4 page 25.
Mike Wilson 4 4 1 Appointed 30 April 2014 The Board of Directors 2 Appointed 23 January 2014 The Company is an investment trust managed by its Board of Directors the Board currently comprising The non-executive Directors also meet once a year 12 Directors.
The Chairman is executive, Jean without executive management present to consider Laurent-Bellue and Hannah Rothschild are the conclusions of the annual Board evaluation non-independent and non-executive and the exercise and the performance of the Chairman.
remaining nine are independent non-executive Directors.
In addition, there are five permanent Board committees a majority of whose membership is The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys The composition of these committees is set out website www.
This is designed to below.
Each committee has its own Terms of prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in Reference which may be viewed on the Companys managing the Companys business within a website.
framework of prudent and effective controls to facilitate the assessment and management of risk.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 23 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 24 Corporate Governance Report Committee Membership as at 26 February 2015 Audit and Risk Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee John Cornish Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman The Duke of Wellington Chairman John Makinson Michael Marks John Cornish Lord Myners The Duke of Wellington Michael Marks Mike Power Mike Wilson Valuation Committee Conflicts Committee John Cornish Chairman The Duke of Wellington Chairman Lord Myners John Cornish Mike Power Michael Marks Sandra Robertson The Audit and Risk Committee The Nominations Committee The Audit and Risk Committee Report may be found Nominations Committee comprises three Directors, on pages 32 and 33. two of whom are independent non-executive and the third is Lord Rothschild, the Chairman of the The Committee met formally on five occasions in the Committee.
The Committee meets at least once a year ended 31 December 2014 with attendance as year on a formal basis, and additional occasions as follows: required.
It is responsible for the process of the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
of meetings Member eligible to attend attended During the year, the Committee discharged its John Cornish 5 5 responsibilities as set out in its Terms of Reference.
1 John Makinson 4 4 These included the consideration and recommendation Lord Myners 5 4 of the two Director appointments made and changes 2 Mike Power 5 5 in the membership of Board Committees.
3 The Duke of Wellington 2 1 1 Appointed 30 April 2014 The Committee is mindful of succession planning and 2 Appointed 23 January 2014 board balance and diversity, including on grounds of 3 Retired 30 June 2014 gender, when recommending appointments to the The Conflicts Committee Board.
Neither open advertising nor external search The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on consultancies have been used for non-executive a formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as Director appointments, as the Board and Nominations and when required.
The Committee is chaired by The Committee utilise their broad range of business Duke of Wellington and is comprised of independent contacts to identify candidates on the basis of their Directors.
The Committees principal responsibilities potential contribution to the Company.
cover proposed co-investment or related party The attendance record of the members of the transactions and the approval of cost sharing Committee in the year to 31 December 2014 was as arrangements with parties related to Lord Rothschild follows: or any other Director as described in note 31.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and preNo.
of meetings approving any arrangements entered into between Member eligible to attend attended the Group and any of its Directors, or their connected Lord Rothschild 1 0 interests, to ensure that any conflicts of interest are Michael Marks 1 1 avoided or pre-approved and managed appropriately.
The Duke of Wellington 1 1 The attendance record of the members in the year to The Valuation Committee 31 December 2014 was as follows: The Valuation Committee comprises four Directors, all of No.
of meetings whom are independent.
The Committee, chaired by John Member eligible to attend attended Cornish, meets at least twice each year and additionally The Duke of Wellington 1 1 as may be required.
John Cornish 1 1 Its principal responsibility is to review the Companys Michael Marks 1 1 direct private and other investments to ensure they are presented in the annual and half-yearly accounts at fair value.
24 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 25 Corporate Governance Report The Committee met formally on two occasions in the UK Corporate Governance Code year ended 31 December 2014 with attendance as The Company has not complied with the following follows: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, as explained below.
2.1 Chairman has executive responsibilities Member eligible to attend attended John Cornish 2 2 B.
2.3 Non-executive directors are not appointed for Sandra Robertson 2 2 specified terms Lord Myners 2 2 1 Chairman Mike Power 11 Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an 1 Appointed 23 January 2014 Executive Director.
The Board recognises that this is at variance with the recommendations of the Code.
The Remuneration Committee The Board believes that the current arrangements are The Remuneration Committee comprises four appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and non-executive Directors, all of whom are are in the best interests of the Company and its independent.
The Committee, chaired by The Duke of shareholders on an ongoing basis.
The Company has Wellington, meets at least once each year on a formal in place a structure of permanent committees, basis and additionally as may be required.
Its primary described on the preceding pages, which are responsibility is the creation and maintenance of designed to devolve responsibility and control of remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and certain key areas of Board responsibility away from motivate Directors and executive management the Chairman.
The Audit and Risk Committee, the Conflicts The Committee reviews the total remuneration Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the packages, including pension arrangements, of the Valuation Committee are comprised entirely of Chairman and executive management, ensuring an independent non-executive Directors.
Whilst the appropriate balance between fixed and  Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild, related elements.
This exercise is conducted in part independent non-executive Directors represent a by reference to other companies of similar size and majority of its members.
In addition, the day-to-day business objectives.
Executive management provides management of the business is delegated by the information to the Committee, although individuals Board to J Rothschild Capital Management Limited, are not present when their own remuneration is led by its CEO and Executive Committee.
The Remuneration Committee receives therefore of the view that the Company is not at risk the advice of New Bridge Street NBS, the from a concentration of power caused by the remuneration consultancy.
The Group has no other Chairman having executive responsibilities and relationships with NBS, which is therefore believes that Lord Rothschild is well qualified for both independent.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the fees paid to the non-executive Directors, by reference leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in to the roles and time commitment of each individual dealing with the matters reserved for its decision with concerned.
The final determination of the fees adequate time for discussion.
This includes ensuring payable to non-executive Directors is a matter for the a culture of openness and debate and that Directors Board of Directors as a whole.
are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
He is also responsible for ensuring The attendance of the members at the meetings of effective communication with shareholders, making the Committee held in the year to 31 December 2014 Directors aware of any concerns raised by was as follows: shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective No.
of meetings contribution of the non-executive Directors.
Member eligible to attend attended The Duke of Wellington 3 3 Board Balance and Independence John Cornish 3 3 The Board is comprised of 12 Directors of whom one Michael Marks 3 3 is executive, two are non-independent and Mike Wilson 3 3 non-executive and nine are non-executive and independent.
This balance is intended to limit the The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee presents scope for an individual, or a small group of individuals, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 44.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 25 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 26 Corporate Governance Report to dominate the Boards decision making.
More than shareholders and may be viewed on the Companys half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, therefore website: www.
comprises non-executive Directors determined by the In accordance with the Code, the Board considered Board to be independent.
the proposed re-elections of Mr Marks and Mr The size and composition of the Board is considered Cornish after particularly rigorous reviews, as they to be appropriate for the Company.
have served as Directors beyond six years.
They remain independent and eligible for re-election for the Information and Professional Development following reasons: Suitable training on listed company governance and on the Company is provided to new Directors on theirMichael Marks is a senior executive at a financial initial appointment.
services organisation unconnected to RIT.
He does not receive any other remuneration from JRCM provides information on financial and the Group other than his Directors fees: regulatory developments in the papers provided for Board and Committee meetings.
Mr Cornish is a retired former Partner of Deloitte LLP with no relationship with the Company or All Directors are entitled to take independent any of its Directors prior to his appointment: and professional advice, including legal advice, at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary tothere are no relationships or circumstances likely discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a to affect the judgement of either Director, both of maximum of 25,000 per annum.
whom continue to challenge objectively and robustly question management.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and Following the performance evaluation of the Board regulations are complied with and for advising the described above, it is confirmed that the performance Board, through the Chairman, on corporate of each Director standing for re-election continues to governance matters.
The re-election of each of the Directors standing at the forthcoming AGM is Performance Evaluation therefore recommended by the Board.
The Code requires the Company to report on the means by which performance evaluation of the Relations with Shareholders Board, its committees and its individual Directors has The Board and JRCMs executive management been conducted.
Following the external review by maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders Armstrong Bonham Carter in 2012, the annual and analysts and also respond promptly to other performance evaluation was carried out in 2013 and shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to 2014 by means of an internally prepared ask questions at the AGM and, as far as is questionnaire.
The summarised responses were practicable, the Chairmen of the Boards committees evaluated and considered by the Board and separately and the other Directors will be available to answer by the non-executive Directors in a meeting without any questions from shareholders.
the Chairman or executive management present.
Status of Company Re-Election of Directors The Company is registered as a public company and Non-executive Directors are not appointed for is incorporated in England and Wales Company specified terms.
As all Directors stand for re-election Registration Number 2129188. annually, neither the Nominations Committee nor the The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify for Board consider that such contractual limitations approval as an investment trust for tax purposes.
would be in the best interests of the Company.
The Company has been accepted as an approved The UK Corporate Governance Code incorporates a investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs, subject requirement that all directors of FTSE 350 companies to continuing to meet eligibility conditions.
should be put forward for re-election every year.
All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the The Directors are of the opinion that the Company Companys 2015 AGM, other than Sandra Robertson has conducted its affairs in a manner which will who has notified the Company of her intention to satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an retire as a Director.
The Notice of AGM is contained in investment trust under Section 1158 of the a separate document circulated to registered Corporation Tax Act 2010.
26 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 27 Corporate Governance Report The Company is not a close company within the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate meaning of Section 439 of the Corporation Tax Act accounting records that are sufficient to show and 2010. explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position The Companys subsidiaries are mainly engaged in of the Company and the Group and enable them to investment activities and the activities of the Group ensure that the financial statements and the are principally undertaken in the UK.
Directors' Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 as amended and, as regards the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report Regulation.
They are also responsible for and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report safeguarding the assets of the Company and the and the financial statements in accordance with Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the applicable law and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under The Directors are responsible for the maintenance that law the Directors have prepared the Group and and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in Parent Company financial statements in accordance the United Kingdom governing the preparation and with International Financial Reporting Standards dissemination of financial statements may differ from IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under legislation in other jurisdictions.
company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that The Directors consider that the Report and Accounts they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss and provides the information necessary for of the Group for that period.
In preparing these shareholders to assess the Companys performance, financial statements, the Directors are required to: business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply Each of the Directors, whose names and them consistently: responsibilities are listed in the Corporate Governance Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the the European Union, give a true and fair view of European Union have been followed, subject to the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit any material departures disclosed and explained of the Group: and in the financial statements: and the Directors Report contains a fair review of the prepare the financial statements on the going development and performance of the business concern basis unless it is inappropriate to and the position of the Group, together with a presume that the company will continue in description of the principal risks and uncertainties business.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 27 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 28 Corporate Governance Report Principal Risks and their Management The principal risks facing RIT are both financial and Operational risks including those legal, regulatory, operational.
The ongoing process for identifying, taxation and other areas where internal or external evaluating and managing these risks is the ultimate factors could result in financial or reputational loss.
responsibility of the Board and the Audit and Risk These are monitored and managed by the Executive Committee.
Day-to-day management is undertaken Committee and Operational Risk Committee of by JRCM within parameters set by the Board.
As an investment company, RIT is exposed to JRCM, under the supervision of the Board and the financial risks inherent in its portfolio which are Audit and Risk Committee, is responsible for the dayprimarily market-related and common to any portfolio to-day compliance with the relevant rules.
It is also predominantly invested in equities.
These financial tasked with identifying emerging risks and ensuring risks include market risk price risk, interest rate risk an appropriate response is in place.
The Audit and and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These Risk Committee, working with the Chief Risk Officer, are monitored and managed by the Investment is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate system Committee and the Investment Risk Committee of of risk management and internal controls is in place.
Further information is set out below.
Risk Mitigation Investment Strategy As an investment company, a key risk is that the The Board is responsible for monitoring the investment strategy does not deliver the Companys investment strategy to ensure it is appropriate to Corporate Objective: To deliver long-term capital meet the Corporate Objective.
The non-executive growth, while preserving shareholders capital: to Directors receive a detailed monthly report to invest without the constraints of a formal enable them to monitor investment performance benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders and exposure.
They also receive a comprehensive increases in capital value in excess of the relevant report from the Investment Director in advance of indices over time the quarterly Board meetings.
The overall risk appetite is set by the Board with portfolio risk managed by JRCM within prescribed limits.
This involves careful assessment of the nature and level of risk within the portfolio using qualitative and quantitative methods.
The Investment Committee of JRCM meets regularly to review overall investment performance, portfolio exposure and significant new investments.
28 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 29 Corporate Governance Report Risk Mitigation Market Risk RIT invests in a number of asset categories The Group has a widely diversified investment including quoted equity, equity funds, private equity, portfolio which significantly reduces the exposure absolute return and credit and real assets.
The to individual asset price risk.
Detailed portfolio portfolio is therefore exposed to the risk that the fair valuations and exposure analysis are prepared value of these investments will fluctuate because of weekly, and form the basis for the ongoing risk changes in market prices.
In addition, regular scenario analysis is undertaken to Consistent with the investment policy, the Group assess likely downside risks and sensitivity to invests globally in instruments denominated in broad market changes, as well as assessing the currencies other than Sterling.
This exposes the underlying correlations amongst the separate portfolio to translation risk as a result of changes in asset classes.
Exposure management is undertaken with a In addition the Group is exposed to the direct and variety of techniques including using equity index indirect impact of changes in interest rates.
futures and options to hedge or to increase exposure depending on overall macroeconomic and market views.
Currency exposure is managed via an overlay strategy using a combination of foreign currency borrowings, forwards and options to adjust the natural currency of the investments in order to achieve a desired net exposure.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will have Liquidity risk is not viewed as significant as a difficulty in meeting its obligations in respect of substantial proportion of the Groups net assets financial liabilities as they fall due.
are in liquid or readily realisable assets, which could be utilised to meet funding requirements if The Group has significant investments in and necessary.
commitments to unquoted companies and unquoted funds which are inherently illiquid.
In The Group manages its liquid resources to ensure addition the Group holds investments with other sufficient cash is available to meet all of its third party organisations which may require notice expected commitments.
It monitors the level of periods in order to be realised.
short-term funding and balances the need for access to such funding, and liquidity, with the longterm funding needs of the Group and the desire to achieve investment returns.
Counterparty Risk Counterparty risk is the risk that a counterparty to a This risk is not considered significant as the vast financial instrument held by the Group will fail to majority of the Groups transactions are settled on meet an obligation which could result in a loss to a delivery versus payment basis using a wide pool the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents are also divided between a number of different financial Substantially all of the listed portfolio investments institutions.
are held by BNP Paribas Securities Services as custodian.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the All custodied assets are fully segregated in custodian may cause the Groups rights with respect designated client accounts.
to securities held by the custodian to be delayed.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 29 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 30 Corporate Governance Report Risk Mitigation Key Person Dependency In common with other self-managed investment This risk is closely monitored and managed by the trusts, investment decisions are made by a small Board which has established procedures in place number of key individuals.
If for any reason the to deal with any related business disruption.
The services of these individuals were to become risk is reduced by the combination of an unavailable, there could be a significant impact on experienced Board of Directors with distinguished our business.
backgrounds in business or finance, and experienced senior management within JRCM.
Legal & Regulatory Risk As an investment trust, RITs operations are subject The Operational Risk Committee of JRCM to wide ranging regulations.
The financial services provides oversight of all legal, regulatory and other sector continues to experience significant regulatory operational risks.
This Committee reports key change at national and international level.
Failure to findings to the JRCM Executive Committee and act in accordance with these regulations could the Audit and Risk Committee.
cause fines, censure or other losses.
JRCM employs a dedicated compliance manager as well as personnel with wider experience of legal regulatory and taxation matters.
In addition, specialist external advisers are engaged in relation to complex or sensitive matters.
Operational Risk Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, Systems and control procedures are the subject of people and systems or external factors.
continued development and regular review.
Further detail can be found in the Internal Control Key operational risks include reliance on third party section below.
suppliers, dealing errors, processing failures, reliability of core systems and IT security issues.
Processes are in place to ensure the recruitment and ongoing training of appropriately skilled staff within key operational functions.
Suitable remuneration policies are in place to encourage staff retention.
A business continuity plan is maintained, and includes the ability to utilise an offsite facility in the event of any business disruption.
Internal Control The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups applicable throughout the Group.
The system of system of internal control although it has delegated internal control is reviewed twice each year.
The the supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk Board considers that the necessary procedures in Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, place are consistent with the Guidance on Risk rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Management, Internal Control and Related Financial business objectives and, as such, can provide only and Business Reporting published by the Financial reasonable and not absolute assurance against any Reporting Council in September 2014 and previously material misstatement or loss.
the relevant sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
The Board has delegated to JRCMs executive management the implementation of the system of As part of the review of the control environment, an internal control within an established framework internal audit of selected areas is undertaken.
This is 30 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp023-pp044 26 02 2015 08:35 Page 31 Corporate Governance Report performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling affairs.
Duties are segregated to an extent program targeting key areas.
The precise scope and commensurate with the size of the Groups depth of the remit is subject to ongoing review.
Where required improvements are identified, Statement on Going Concern timetables are agreed for implementing these and The Directors have assessed the ability of the progress is monitored against these timetables.
Clear Company and the Group to continue as a going and direct reporting lines between those conducting concern with reference to guidance issued by the the reviews and the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
The Committee have been established to maximise the Company and the Groups business activities, independence of the function from JRCMs executive together with the factors likely to affect its future management.
development, performance and position are set out in The Group also monitors the compliance of external the Strategic Report.
managers with the terms of their investment As at the year end the Group had cash at bank of management agreements as well as reviewing their 101.4 million and money market funds of control procedures.
In addition to these liquidity balances The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key the Group held quoted equities of 1,539.9 million.
systems of internal control in operation during the The Groups borrowings totalled 402.9 million under financial year, and up to the date of this report, facilities that expire in December 2016 and December through the Audit and Risk Committee.
During the 2018. course of the reviews conducted, the Audit and Risk The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Committee has not identified or been appraised of Company and the Group have adequate resources, an any failings or weaknesses representing a significant appropriate financial structure and suitable business risk.
management arrangements in place to continue to The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key adopt the going concern basis in preparing the controls exercised over its financial and operating financial statements.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 31
