Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT All companies with a premium listing of equity shares in The Company has no employees or internal the UK are required under the Listing Rules to report on operations and has therefore not reported further in how they have applied the Corporate Governance Code respect of these provisions.
The need for an internal audit in their Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The function is discussed in the Audit Committee report.
Directors recognise the importance of sound corporate Except for Principle 6 of the AIC code, the Company governance, particularly the requirements of the AIC Code.
has complied throughout the period with the provisions The Company became a member of the AIC of the AIC Code.
Principle 6 of the AIC code states effective 15 January 2014 and has therefore put in place Directors should consider the diversity of the Board, arrangements to comply with the AIC Code and, in including gender.
Currently, the Companys Board is accordance with the AIC Code, voluntarily complies comprised of male members.
The Board intends to with the Corporate Governance Code.
The Company is address this when a vacancy arises.
subject to the GFSC Code, which applies to all companies The GFSC has also confirmed that companies that registered as collective investment schemes in Guernsey.
report against the Corporate Governance Code or AIC The Board monitors the developments in corporate Code are deemed to meet the GFSC Code.
governance to ensure the Board remains aligned with best practice especially with respect to the increased focus The Board on diversity.
The Board acknowledges the importance of The Board consists of nine Non-Executive Directors, diversity, including gender, for the effective functioning five of whom, including the Chairman, are independent of the Board and commits to supporting diversity in the of the Companys Investment Manager.
It is the Boards ongoing aspiration to have a well diversified representation.
The Board also values New Directors receive an induction from the diversity of business skills and experience because Directors Investment Manager and all Directors receive other with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained relevant training as necessary.
from different geographical backgrounds enhance the Board The Directors details are listed in the Report of the by bringing a wide range of perspectives to the Company.
Directors on pages 24 to 26 which set out their range The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, of investment, financial and business skills and experience addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate represented.
Governance Code, as well as setting out additional At each subsequent Annual General Meeting of the principles and recommendations on issues that are of Company, each of the Directors at the date of the notice specific relevance to investment companies such as the convening the Annual General Meeting shall retire from Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the office and may offer themselves for election or re-election principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, by by the Shareholders.
reference to the AIC Guide, provides better information to Shareholders.
The Board meets at least four times a year for regular, scheduled meetings and, should the nature of the activity The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on of the Company require it, additional meetings may be the AICs website, www.
The Corporate held, some at short notice.
At each meeting the Board Governance Code is available on the Financial follows a formal agenda that covers the business to be Reporting Councils website, www.
The primary focus at Board meetings is a review The Company has complied with the recommendations of investment performance and associated matters such as of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the asset allocation, share price discount premium management, Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
investor relations, peer group information, gearing, industry issues and principal risks and uncertainties in The Corporate Governance Code includes provisions particular those identified at the end of this report.
relating to: Between meetings there is regular contact with the the role of the chief executive: Investment Manager and the Administrator, and the executive directors remuneration: and Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with the need for an internal audit function.
information by the Investment Manager, the Company Secretary and other advisers in a form and of a quality For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as to enable it to discharge its duties.
explained in the Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that the above provisions are not currently The Company has adopted a share dealing code for relevant to the position of the Company, being an the Board and will seek to ensure compliance by the externally managed investment company, which delegates Board and relevant personnel of the Investment Manager most day-to-day functions to third parties.
and other third party service providers with the terms of the share dealing code.
The share dealing code is compliant The Company does not have a chief executive or any with the Model Code for Directors Dealings contained executive directors.
The Company has not established a in the Listing Rules.
separate remuneration committee as the Company has no executive officers and the Board is satisfied that any relevant issues that arise can be properly considered by the Board.. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED All of the Directors are non-executive.
Sir Robert Board Tenure and Re-election 2 Wilson, Mr Barker, Mr Firth, Mr Hayden and Dr Maini No member of the Board has served for longer than eight are each considered independent for the purposes of years to date.
As such no issue has arisen to be considered Chapter 15 of the Listing Rules and the AIC Code.
Lord by the Board with respect to long tenure.
In accordance Browne, Mr Hackett, Mr Lapeyre and Mr Leuschen are with the AIC Code, when and if any director shall have not considered independent because of their nomination been in office or on re-election would at the end of that for appointment to the Board by the Investment term of office for more than nine years the Company Manager, pursuant to a right set out in the Investment will consider further whether there is a risk that such a Management Agreement.
director might reasonably be deemed to have lost The Chairman of the Board must be independent independence through such long service.
and is appointed in accordance with the Companys A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting Articles of Incorporation.
Sir Robert Wilson is considered may, if willing to continue to act, be elected or re-elected to be independent because he: at that meeting.
If, at a general meeting at which a has no current or historical employment with the Director retires, the Company neither re-elects that Investment Manager: Director nor appoints another person to the Board in the place of that Director, the retiring Director shall, has no current directorships or partnerships in any if willing to act, be deemed to have been re-elected other investment funds managed by the Investment unless at the general meeting it is resolved not to fill Manager: and the vacancy or unless a resolution for the re-election is not an executive of a self-managed company or an of the Director is put to the meeting and not passed.
ex-employee who has left the executive team of a Directors do not have service contracts.
Directors are self-managed company within the last five years.
appointed under letters of appointment, copies of which The Board has overall responsibility for maximising the are available at the registered office of the Company.
The Companys success by directing and supervising the Board considers its composition and succession planning affairs of the business and meeting the appropriate on an ongoing basis.
interests of Shareholders and relevant stakeholders, while enhancing the value of the Company and also ensuring Directors Remuneration the protection of investors.
A summary of the Boards responsibilities is as follows: The Chairman is entitled to annual remuneration of $187,000 120,000.
The other independent Directors statutory obligations and public disclosure: are entitled to annual remuneration of $93,000 60,000. strategic matters and financial reporting: The four non-independent Directors have chosen not to risk assessment and management including reporting, be remunerated by the Company for their services.
compliance, governance, monitoring and control: and During the year ended 31 December 2014 and other matters having a material effect on the Company.
period ended 31 December 2013, the Directors remuneration was as follows: Duties and Responsibilities 2014 2013 $000 $000 The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the overall management of the Company.
The duties and powers 1 Sir Robert Wilson 187 121 reserved for the Board include decisions relating to the 1 Peter Barker 93 28 determination of investment policy and approval of Lord John Browne 1 investments in certain instances, strategy, capital raising, Patrick Firth 93 59 statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial James Hackett reporting and entering into any material contracts by 1 2 Richard Hayden 93 59 the Company.
Pierre Lapeyre David Leuschen The Directors have access to the advice and services 1 Dr Tidu Maini 93 59 of the Administrator, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with Companies Law and applicable rules and The above fees due to the Directors are for the regulations of the GFSC and the LSE.
Where necessary, year ended 31 December 2014 and period ended in carrying out their duties, the Directors may seek 31 December 2013, and none were outstanding at independent professional advice and services at the 31 December 2014 and 2013, respectively.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Boards responsibilities for the Annual Report are set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 31.
The Board is also responsible for issuing appropriate half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements and other price-sensitive public reports.
The attendance record of the Directors for the year is set out below: Management Scheduled Board Audit Nomination Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director max 4 max 1 max 4 max 1 max n a 1 Sir Robert Wilson 4 n a n a 11 1 Peter Barker 41 411 Lord John Browne 3 n a n a n a n a 1 Patrick Firth 41 411 James Hackett 4 n a n a n a n a 1 2 Richard Hayden 4 n a 4 n a n a Pierre Lapeyre 4 n a n a n a n a David Leuschen 3 n a n a n a n a 1 Dr Tidu Maini 4 n a n a n a n a The Board is satisfied with the current composition Committees of the Board and functioning of its members.
It is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of Board Audit Committee balance, diversity and gender when making new 2 The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Hayden and appointments.
When appointing Board members, its comprises Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
There has been priority is based on merit, but will be influenced by the ongoing discussion between the chair of the Audit strong desire to maintain board diversity, including Committee, the Investment Manager and the external gender.
The Company intends to identify suitable female auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, with regards to the audit Board candidates for consideration by the Shareholders.
The report of the Audit Committee activities is contained in the Report of the Board Performance and Evaluation Audit Committee on pages 38 to 40.
The Audit In accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code which Committee has terms of reference which are available requires a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its on the Companys website www.
performance, the Board formally reviews its performance annually through an internal process.
Internal evaluation Nomination Committee of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir Robert Committee, the Management Engagement Committee Wilson and comprises Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
The and individual Directors has taken the form of self-appraisal Nomination Committee meets at least once a year questionnaires and discussions to determine effectiveness pursuant to its terms of reference which are available and performance in various areas as well as the Directors on the Companys website www.
During the year, a formal Board performance The Nomination Committee is convened for the appraisal was carried out.
The results have been collated purpose of considering the appointment of additional and reviewed whereby it was noted that overall Directors as and when considered appropriate.
In performance of the Board during the year had been considering appointments to the Board, the Nomination satisfactory and that the Board is confident in its ability Committee takes into account the ongoing requirements to continue effectively to lead the Company and oversee of the Company and the need to have a balance of skills its affairs.
The Board believes that the current mix of and experience within the Board.
The Board believes that, skills, experience, knowledge and age of the Directors as a whole, it comprises an appropriate balance of skills, is appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
The Board also believes that New Directors receive an induction from the diversity of experience and approach, including gender Investment Manager and all Directors receive other diversity, amongst Board members is of great importance relevant training as necessary.
and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of Board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
2 Senior Independent Director.. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee the Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and has decided that the systems and The Management Engagement Committee is chaired procedures employed by the Administrator and by Sir Robert Wilson and comprises Mr Barker and Investment Manager, including their own internal Mr Firth.
The Management Engagement Committee controls and procedures, provide sufficient assurance meets at least once a year pursuant to its terms of that an appropriate level of risk management and reference which are available on the Companys website internal control, which safeguards Shareholders www.
com and met on 12 February 2015. investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
The Management Engagement Committee provides a An internal audit function specific to the Company formal mechanism for the review of the performance of is therefore considered unnecessary.
the Investment Manager and the Companys other advisors The systems of control referred to above are designed to and service providers.
It carries out this review through ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal control consideration of a number of objective and subjective and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing criteria and through a review of the terms and conditions the systems of internal control, regard is paid to the of the advisors appointments with the aim of evaluating materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs being performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore that the value for money for the Shareholders.
systems of internal control can only provide reasonable Following discussion, it is the opinion of the but not absolute assurance against the risk of material Management Engagement Committee that the misstatement or loss.
performance of the Investment Manager for the year ended 31 December 2014 was satisfactory and the Investment Management Agreement continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on The Investment Manager has been appointed as the sole the terms agreed is in the interests of the Shareholders investment manager of the Company and the Partnership.
The Board consider the performance of the Pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Manager based, on selection of investments Investment Manager has responsibility for and discretion and return of investments to date, to be satisfactory.
over investing and managing the Companys and the Partnerships direct and indirect assets, subject to and Internal Control and Financial in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The Investment Manager is entitled to delegate all or Reporting part of its functions under the Investment Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for Agreement to one or more of its affiliates.
establishing and maintaining the Companys system of The Company has delegated the provision of all internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal services to external service providers whose work is control systems are designed to manage rather than overseen by the Management Engagement Committee at eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and its regular scheduled meetings.
Each year a detailed review can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance of performance pursuant to their terms of engagement is against material misstatements or loss.
The Directors undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
review all controls including operations, compliance and risk management.
The key procedures which have been In accordance with Listing Rule 15.6.
2 2 R and established to provide internal control are that: having formally appraised the performance and resources of the Investment Manager, in the opinion of the the Board has delegated the day to day operations of Directors their continuing appointment of the the Company to the Administrator and Investment Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the Manager: however, it retains accountability for all interests of the Shareholders as a whole.
functions it delegates: the Board clearly defines the duties and Relations with Shareholders responsibilities of the Companys agents and advisors and appointments are made by the Board after due The Board welcomes Shareholders views and places great and careful consideration.
The Board monitors the importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The ongoing performance of such agents and advisors and Companys AGM provides a forum for Shareholders to will continue to do so through the Management meet and discuss issues with the Directors of the Company.
Engagement Committee: The Chairman and other directors are also available to meet with Shareholders at other times, if required.
the Board monitors the actions of the Investment In addition, the Company maintains a website Manager at regular Board meetings and is given www.
com which contains frequent updates on developments arising from the comprehensive information, including company operations and strategic direction of the underlying notifications, share information, financial reports, investee companies: investment objectives and policy, investor contacts and the Administrator provides administration and information on the Board and corporate governance.
company secretarial services to the Company.
The Administrator maintains a system of internal control on which they report to the Board: and Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Investment Manager has regular contact with 3.
Investments in the exploration and production and Shareholders, in particular Cornerstone Investors, and midstream sectors of the global energy sector involve any views that they may have are communicated to a degree of inherent risk.
No sensitive information is The change in the price of oil and gas could provided to the Cornerstone Investors that is not provided affect the investment valuations through the to the Shareholders as a whole and at the same time.
public market trading and transaction The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant comparables, the discounted cash flow discount market commentary on the Company by the Investment rates, and potentially limit exit opportunities.
Manager and the Corporate Broker.
The regulatory and tax environment of the Companys target investments is potentially subject Principal Risks and Uncertainties to change, which may adversely affect the value or liquidity of investments held by the Company The Companys assets consist of investments, through or its ability to obtain leverage.
the Partnership, within the global energy sector, with a particular focus on opportunities in the global The Company will be exposed to increased risk exploration and production and midstream energy by investing in build-up and early-stage sub-sectors.
Its principal risks are therefore related to investments that have little or no operating market conditions in the energy sector in general, history and are comparably more vulnerable to but also the particular circumstances of the businesses financial failure than more established companies.
in which it is invested through the Partnership.
The The investor should be aware there can be no Investment Manager to the Partnership seeks to mitigate assurance that losses generated by these types of these risks through active asset management initiatives entities will be offset by gains if any realised on and carrying out due diligence work on potential targets the Companys other investments.
before entering into any investments.
An investments requirements for additional Each Director is aware of the risks inherent in the capital may require the Company to invest more Companys business and understands the importance of capital than it had originally planned or result in identifying, evaluating and monitoring these risks.
The the dilution of the Companys investment or a Board has adopted procedures and controls that enable it decrease in the value of that investment.
to manage these risks within acceptable limits and to These inherent risks associated with investments in the meet all of its legal and regulatory obligations.
global energy sector could result in a material adverse The Board considers the process for identifying, effect on the Companys performance and the value of evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Ordinary Shares.
Company on an ongoing basis and these risks are reported The above key risks are mitigated and managed by the and discussed at Board meetings.
It ensures that effective Board through continual review, policy setting and controls are in place to mitigate these risks and that a updating of the Companys risk matrix at each Audit satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all applicable Committee Meeting to ensure that procedures are in local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
place with the intention of minimising the impact of For each material risk, the likelihood and consequence the above mentioned risks.
The Board relies on periodic are identified, management controls and frequency of reports provided by the Investment Manager and monitoring are confirmed and results reported and Administrator regarding risks that the Company faces.
When required, experts will be employed to gather information, including tax advisors, legal advisors, and The Companys principal risk factors are fully environmental advisors.
discussed in the Companys Prospectus, available on the Companys website www.
com and The Companys financial instrument risks are discussed should be reviewed by Shareholders.
in Note 15 to the Financial Statements.
The key areas of risk faced by the Company are By order of the Board summarised below: 1.
The Company intends to only invest in the global energy sector, with a particular focus on oil and gas exploration and production, and midstream Sir Robert Wilson investments, which will expose it to concentration risk.
The Ordinary Shares may trade at a discount to NAV 12 February 2015 per Share for reasons including but not limited to: market conditions, liquidity concerns and actual or expected Company performance.
As such no guarantee that attempts to mitigate such discount will be successful or that the use of discount control mechanisms will be possible, advisable or adopted by the Company.
