REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Hayden, operates meeting the external auditor to review their within clearly defined terms of reference which are proposed audit programme of work and the available from the Companys website and include all subsequent audit report and assess the effectiveness of matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule the audit process and the levels of fees paid in respect 7.1, the AIC Code and the Corporate Governance of both audit and non-audit work: Code.
Its other members are Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
making recommendations to the Board in relation to Only independent Directors can serve on the Audit the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Committee, not including the Chairman of the external auditor and approving their remuneration Company, who may, however, be invited to attend.
and the terms of their engagement: Members of the Audit Committee must be independent monitoring and reviewing annually the external of the Companys external auditor and Investment auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, Manager.
Appointments to the Committee shall be for a resources and qualification: period of up to three years, extendable for two further three-year periods.
The Audit Committee will meet no considering annually whether there is a need for the less than three times in a year, and at such other times as Company to have its own internal audit function: the Audit Committee chairman shall require, and will monitoring the internal financial control and risk meet the external auditor at least once a year.
management systems on which the Company is The Board has taken note of the requirement that at reliant: and least one member of the Audit Committee should have reviewing and considering the Corporate recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied Governance Code, the AIC Code, the GFSC Code, that the Audit Committee is properly constituted in that the AIC Guidance on Audit Committees and the respect, with all members being highly experienced and Stewardship Code.
in particular, one member having a background as a The Audit Committee is aware that several sections of chartered accountant.
the Annual Report are not subject to formal statutory The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its audit, including the Chairmans Statement and the responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report and Investment Managers Report.
Financial information in Financial Statements and Interim Financial Report, the these sections is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
valuation of the Companys investment portfolio, the The Audit Committee is required to report its system of internal controls, and the terms of appointment findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which of the external auditor together with its remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through which the external it considers that action or improvement is needed, and auditor reports to the Board.
The objectivity of the make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
external auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit which also reviews the terms under which the external Committee meetings at which the annual and interim auditor is appointed to perform non-audit services and Financial Statements are considered and at which they the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
have the opportunity to meet with the Committee The Audit Committee reviews, considers and, if without representatives of the Investment Manager or thought appropriate, recommends for the purposes of the Administrator being present at least once per year.
Companys financial statements, valuations prepared by the Investment Manager in respect of the investments Financial Reporting of the Partnership.
The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with the Administrator, Responsibilities Investment Manager and the external auditor and report The main duties of the Audit Committee are: to the Board on the appropriateness of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Interim Financial reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Report, concentrating on, amongst other matters: Financial Statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial the quality and acceptability of accounting policies performance, reviewing significant financial reporting and practices: judgements contained in them: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the and governance reporting requirements: Companys accounting policies and practices: material areas in which significant judgements have reviewing the valuations of the Companys investments prepared by the Investment Manager, been applied or there has been discussion with the and making a recommendation to the Board on the external auditor: valuation of the Companys investments: Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
whether the Annual Report and Financial As outlined in Note 6 to the Financial Statements, the Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and total carrying value of the investment in the Partnership at understandable and provides the information fair value through profit or loss at 31 December 2014 was necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys $1,234 million.
Market quotations are not available for this performance, business model and strategy: and financial asset such that the value of the Companys investment is based on the value of the Companys limited any correspondence from regulators in relation to our partner capital account with the Partnership, which financial reporting.
itself is based on the value of the Partnerships To aid its review, the Audit Committee considers reports investments as determined by the Investment Manager, from the Administrator and Investment Manager and also along with the cash, U. S. treasury bills and fixed deposits reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of held.
The valuation for each individual investment held by their half-year review and annual audit.
The Audit the Partnership is determined by reference to common Committee supports Ernst and Young LLP in displaying industry valuation techniques, including comparable public the necessary professional scepticism their role requires.
market valuation, comparable merger and acquisition transaction valuation, and discounted cash flow valuation, as detailed in the Investment Managers report on page 18.
Meetings The valuation process and methodology was During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Audit discussed with the Investment Manager and with the Committee met formally four times and maintained external auditor at an Audit Committee meeting held on ongoing liaison and discussion between the external 12 February 2015.
The Investment Manager has carried out auditor and the chair of the Audit Committee with regards a valuation quarterly and provided a detailed valuation to the audit approach and the identified risks.
The Audit report to the Company at each quarter.
Committee has met on one occasion since the year end The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment through to the date of this report on 12 February 2015.
The Investment Manager confirmed to The matters discussed at those meetings include: the Audit Committee that the external auditors work consideration and agreement of the terms of reference had not identified any errors or inconsistencies that were of the audit committee for approval by the Board: material in the context of the Annual Report and review of the accounting policies and format of the Financial Statements as a whole.
financial statements: The external auditor explained the results of review and approval of the audit plan of the external their review of the valuations, including their challenge auditor: of managements valuation of those Investment Undertakings remaining at cost.
On the basis of their discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit: audit work, there were no adjustments proposed that detailed review of the valuations of the Companys were material in the context of the Annual Report and investment portfolio and recommendation for Financial Statements as a whole.
approval by the Board: The Audit Committee has determined that a key risk detailed review of the Annual Report and Financial of misstatement of the Companys Financial Statements is Statements, Interim Financial Report and Interim the failure to identify and adequately disclose all related Management Statement, and recommendation for party transactions.
approval by the Board: The factors that increase the risk of misstatement are assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit as follows: process as described below: and operating through a complex range of relationships review of the Companys key risks and internal controls.
and structures, increasing the complexity of related party transactions: the commitments made to date, through the Significant Areas of Judgement Partnership, have been in concert with Other The Audit Committee has determined that a key risk Riverstone Funds: of misstatement of the Companys Financial Statements the Directors may be unaware of the existence of all relates to the valuation of the investment in the related-party relationships and transactions: Partnership at fair value through profit or loss, in the context of the judgements necessary to evaluate market the Administrators information systems may not values of the Investment Undertakings of the Partnership.
identify transactions or outstanding balances with related parties, especially for transactions conducted at The Directors have considered whether any discount nil value, or outside the normal course of business: and or premium should be applied to the net asset value of the Partnership.
In view of the Companys investment in related-party transactions may not be conducted the Partnership and the nature of the Partnerships assets, under normal terms and conditions.
no adjustment to the net asset value of the Partnership The risk is mitigated through the production and regular has been made, as this is deemed equivalent to fair value.
review of a register, detailing the names, relationships and transactions of all entities and individuals.. REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED To further safeguard the objectivity and independence Risk Management of the external auditor from becoming compromised, The Companys risk assessment process and the way in the Audit Committee has a formal policy governing which significant business risks are managed is a key area the engagement of the external auditor to provide of focus for the Audit Committee.
The work of the Audit non-audit services.
This precludes Ernst & Young LLP Committee was driven primarily by the Companys from providing certain services such as valuation work assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties as set or the provision of accounting services and also sets a out in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Audit presumption that Ernst & Young LLP should only be Committee receives reports from the Investment Manager engaged for non-audit services where Ernst & Young LLP and Administrator on the Companys risk evaluation are best placed to provide the non-audit service for process and reviews changes to significant risks identified.
example, the interim review service.
Note 17 details services provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
Internal Audit To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considers: The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year whether or not there is a need for an internal audit discussions with or reports from the external auditor function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not describing its arrangements to identify, report and consider there to be a need for an internal audit manage any conflicts of interest: and function, given that there are no employees in the the extent of non-audit services provided by the Company and all outsourced functions are with parties external auditor.
who have their own internal controls and procedures.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the committee reviews: External Audit the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external plan and variations from it: auditor since the Companys incorporation.
This is the discussions or reports highlighting the major issues second year of audit.
that arose during the course of the audit: and The external auditor is required to rotate the audit feedback from other service providers evaluating the partner every five years.
The current partner is in his performance of the audit team.
There are no contractual The Audit Committee is satisfied with Ernst & Young obligations restricting the choice of external auditor and LLPs effectiveness and independence as external auditor the Company will put the audit services contract out to having considered the degree of diligence and tender at least every ten years in line with the FRCs professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
Having suggestions on audit tendering for FTSE 350 clients.
carried out the review described above and having This will be considered further when the audit partner satisfied itself that the external auditor remains rotates every five years.
Under Companies Law, the independent and effective, the Audit Committee has reappointment of the external auditor is subject to recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP Shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
be reappointed as external auditor for the year ending The Audit Committee will continue to monitor the 31 December 2015. performance of the external auditor on an annual basis and will consider their independence and objectivity, On behalf of the Audit Committee taking account of appropriate guidelines.
The Audit Committee has provided the Board with its recommendation to the Shareholders on the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Accordingly a Richard Hayden resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Chairman of the Audit Committee Young LLP as our external auditor will be put to 12 February 2015 Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
Please see Note 17 for details of services provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
