34 Board and committee activity remained busy during 2014 with a number Governance of key strategic issues taking centre stage including the delivery of the at a glance strategic plan agreed in February 2014.
Board committees continued to play a crucial role in our governance framework, undertaking their complex work comprehensively and effectively supporting the work of the Board.
Conduct and regulatory investigations have been key areas of focus and our 2014 results reflect the impact that conduct related matters continue to have on financial and operating performance.
The Board will continue to drive cultural change and it is essential that our governance framework continues to evolve to support this.
During 2015, the Board will continue to focus on our key priorities, including customers, conduct, capital and funding, risk and delivery of the strategic plan.
Philip Hampton Chairman of the Board of directors Our Board Our Board committees Group Audit Committee The Board has ten directors comprising the In order to provide effective oversight and Chairman, two executive directors and seven leadership, the Board has established a Assists the Board in discharging its independent non-executive directors, one of number of Board committees with particular responsibilities for monitoring the quality of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
The work of the Board the financial statements of RBS.
It reviews Biographies for each director and details of committees is discussed in their the accounting policies, financial reporting which Board Committees they are members of individual reports.
and regulatory compliance practices of RBS.
The terms of reference for each of these It also exercises oversight over systems and committees is available on rbs.
com and standards of internal controls, and monitors There were a number of changes to the copies are also available on request from RBSs processes for internal audit and Boards composition during 2014, details of RBS Corporate Governance and Secretariat.
which can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7.
The Group Audit Committee report is set out on pages 57 to 61.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of RBS and delivery of Board Risk Committee Group Nominations Committee sustainable shareholder value.
Its role is to provide leadership of RBS within a framework of prudent and effective controls which Assists the Board in the selection and Provides oversight and advice to the Board enables risks to be assessed and managed.
It reviews the on current and potential future risk exposures structure, size and composition of the Board, of RBS and future risk strategy.
It reviews We conducted an internal evaluation of the and membership and chairmanship of Board RBSs compliance with approved risk appetite effectiveness of the Board and its committees committees.
and oversees the operation of the RBS Policy in 2014, led by the Chief Governance Officer Framework and submissions to regulators.
The evaluation has The Group Nominations Committee report is concluded that the Board is operating set out on pages 55 and 56.
The Board Risk Committee report is set out on effectively but has identified some areas pages 62 to 68. for improvement which we will focus on during 2015.
For biographies - 46 49 see pages 35 Governance at a glance Board of directors and Executive Committee Board Executive Committee Chairman The Board is supported by the Executive Committee comprising Philip Hampton the executive directors and other senior executives.
Details of the composition of the Executive Committee and biographies of Executive directors its members can be found at www.
com about us corporate governance ceo and board executive committee Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Non-executive directors Sandy Crombie Penny Hughes Senior Independent Director Brendan Nelson Alison Davis Baroness Noakes Morten Friis Robert Gillespie Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel Aileen Taylor Company Secretary RBS Capital Resolution RCR Group Performance and UK Corporate Governance Code Board Oversight Committee Remuneration Committee Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014, RBS has complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Provides oversight of RCRs progress against, Responsible for approving remuneration Code issued by the Financial Reporting and compliance with, its primary objective and policy and reviewing the effectiveness Council dated September 2012 except in asset management principles.
It also considers relation to provision D. 2.2 that the Group senior executive remuneration and makes Performance and Remuneration Committee The RCR Board Oversight Committee report is recommendations to the Board on the should have delegated responsibility for set out on pages 69 and 70. remuneration of executive directors.
setting remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
RBS considers that this is The Directors Remuneration report is set out a matter which should rightly be reserved for on pages 73 to 93. the Board.
Sustainable Banking Committee Executive Committee Responsible for overseeing and challenging Supports the Chief Executive in managing how management is addressing sustainable RBSs businesses.
It reviews and debates banking and reputation issues, considering relevant items before consideration by the the long term interests of all stakeholder Board.
It is responsible for determining and groups.
delivering RBSs strategy and it monitors and manages financial performance, The Sustainable Banking Committee report is capital allocations, risk strategy and policy, set out on pages 71 and 72. risk management, operational issues and customer issues.
