Governance report 43 Letter from the Chairman 45 Our governance structure 46 Our Board 50 Corporate governance 55 Report of the Group Nominations Committee 57 Report of the Group Audit Committee 62 Report of the Board Risk Committee 69 Report of the RBS Capital Resolution RCR Board Oversight Committee 71 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee 73 Directors remuneration report 90 Other remuneration disclosures 94 Compliance report 96 Report of the directors 102 Statement of directors responsibilities 42 Letter from the Chairman The Group Audit Committee has monitored the quality of RBSs financial statements and has supported the Board in making its assessment that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee has also exercised close oversight of the effectiveness of the RBSs control environment, placing particular focus on the remediation of culture and controls in the former Markets division.
Together with the Board Risk Committee, the Group Audit Committee will examine managements plans to embed an effective three lines of defence model within the new organisational construct.
During 2014, the Group Audit Committee also spent additional time overseeing the tender Dear Shareholder, process for selection of the external auditor for the year commencing 1 January 2016.
I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance report for the 2014 financial year which outlines the role our Board and Committees have The Board Risk Committee welcomed Baroness Noakes as its new had in shaping and refining the strategic ambition for the business, and Chairman in April 2014.
During the year, it has played a key role in the providing oversight and challenge.
oversight of execution risk arising from RBSs strategic agenda, most notably the Transformation Programme, and will continue to do so in Board and Committee activity during 2014 continued to be extremely 2015.
The Committee has monitored developments in the internal and busy, focused on the delivery of the strategic plan announced in February regulatory investigations of our activities in foreign exchange markets, 2014. including the resulting disciplinary and accountability process.
It has also overseen the remediation activity following the IT incident in 2012.
In April 2014, we entered into an agreement with Her Majestys Treasury The Board Risk Committee has considered the capital and liquidity to provide for the future retirement of the Dividend Access Share DAS.
position of RBS and related regulatory submissions and dedicated Among other benefits, the retirement of the DAS will in future allow the significant additional time to the consideration of internal and external Board to state more clearly a dividend policy to investors.
In September, we launched the initial public offering IPO of our US As announced previously, Penny Hughes stood down as Chairman of the subsidiary Citizens Financial Group, Inc. CFG which represents a Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and Sandy Crombie significant step towards improving our capital position and helping us stood down as Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee.
I would create a strong and secure bank that can continue to support the needs like to thank Penny and Sandy for their outstanding commitment and of our customers.
dedication whilst chairing these Committees.
Conduct and regulatory investigations have also been a key area of focus The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee welcomed Sandy and our 2014 results reflect the huge cost of dealing with these issues.
The Committee has played a vital role in ensuring The announcements made in November 2014 in relation to settlements that our remuneration policy is fair and transparent and supports the work with certain regulators regarding misconduct in foreign exchange trading to rebuild a successful and trusted RBS.
During 2014 the Committee had were a stark reminder of the importance of culture and integrity in oversight of the implementation of a limit of variable pay to no more than banking.
The Board will continue to drive cultural change and it is 100% of fixed pay and the use of deferral and malus, to deliver fair essential that our governance and risk frameworks continue to evolve to remuneration outcomes.
Penny became the new Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee Systems, controls and resilience were also considered regularly by the and refocused its strategic direction on three core themes - Bank-wide Board, particularly in light of the regulatory investigations in relation to the Reputation and Trust, Serving Customers and Sustainability Emerging 2012 IT incident which were settled in November 2014.
The Sustainable Banking Committee has overseen the values 2015 we will have invested an additional 750 million in enhancing and conduct work in relation to behavioural and cultural issues and the the security and resilience of our IT systems and many development of Environmental, Social and Ethical policies, while improvements have already been implemented.
continuing its commitment to stakeholder engagement.
Board Committees The RBS Capital Resolution RCR Board Oversight Committee chaired Board Committees continued to play a crucial role in our governance by Baroness Noakes since 1 April 2014 was established to oversee the framework during 2014, undertaking their complex work comprehensively separation and wind-down of RBSs high capital intensive assets and has and effectively supporting the work of the Board.
implemented a governance structure and delegated authorities for RCR.
The RCR Board Oversight Committee has considered RCRs financial performance, risk reporting, delivery against targets and asset management principles and certain remuneration matters.
43 Letter from the Chairman Board changes Board effectiveness There were a number of changes to the Boards composition during This year, we conducted an internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the 2014.
Board and its committees, led by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
The evaluation has concluded that the Board is operating Ewen Stevenson took over as Chief Financial Officer in May 2014 when effectively but has identified some areas of improvement that we will Nathan Bostock left RBS.
Ewen has extensive experience of working with focus on during 2015. both governments and boards on the steps needed to restore confidence in financial institutions following the crisis: and his skills and experience The Board also received support from the Chief Governance Officer and have already been of great benefit to the Board.
Board Counsel in a number of other areas related to board effectiveness such as the Prudential Regulation Authoritys review of Board Two of our non-executive directors also retired from the Board in 2014. effectiveness, Board process, information flows and operating rhythm Tony Di Iorio stood down in March 2014, having served on the Board between the Board and committees, professional development and since September 2011.
Tony made an excellent contribution to the induction for new directors.
Board and, in particular, the Board Risk Committee and Group Audit Committee, and he left with our best wishes for the future.
Tony remains Corporate governance a director of CFG in the US.
Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is set out on page 94.
Philip Scott stood down in October 2014 having served on the Board since 2009.
I would like to record my thanks to Philip for his outstanding Finally, as we reflect on another challenging year, I would like to conclude commitment to the Board having served four years as Chairman of the this letter by recording my sincere thanks towards my fellow Board Board Risk Committee during a period of enormous change.
Being a director of RBS requires extensive time and commitment, and the readiness to deal with the unusual challenges of a In April 2014, we welcomed Morten Friis as a new non-executive director government controlled listed company.
I remain extremely grateful for and a member of the Board Risk Committee and Group Audit Committee.
their continued support and dedication in working towards the recovery of Morten brings a wealth of experience of the financial services industry RBS.
and has an especially strong background in risk.
This is already evident in the contributions he is making to the Board and the committees he sits As announced previously I will be leaving RBS on 31 August 2015. on.
Howard Davies will join the Board at the end of June and will assume the role of Chairman with effect from 1 September 2015.
It has been a On 25 February 2015 the Board approved the appointment of Howard privilege to serve as Chairman of RBS since 2009 and it is with sadness Davies as a non-executive director with effect from the end of June 2015 that I will leave the Board, but I am confident that the Board will continue and as Chairman from 1 September 2015. to work with dedication to implement our strategy under the new Chairman.
Philip Hampton Chairman of the Board of directors 25 February 2015 44 Our governance structure Board and Board committee structure The Board Group Nominations Committee The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of RBS Assists the Board in the selection and appointment of directors.
It reviews and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Its role is to provide the structure, size and composition of the Board, and membership and leadership of RBS within a framework of prudent and effective controls chairmanship of Board committees.
which enables risks to be assessed and managed.
Sustainable Banking Committee Group Audit Committee Responsible for overseeing and challenging how management is Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities for monitoring the addressing sustainable banking and reputation issues, considering the quality of the financial statements of RBS.
It reviews the accounting long term interests of all stakeholder groups.
policies, financial reporting and regulatory compliance practices of RBS and RBSs system and standards of internal controls, and monitors Executive Committee RBSs processes for internal audit and external audit.
Supports the Chief Executive in managing RBSs businesses.
It reviews and debates relevant items before consideration by the Board.
It is Board Risk Committee responsible for determining and delivering RBSs strategy, and it monitors Provides oversight and advice to the Board on current and potential and manages financial performance, capital allocations, risk strategy and future risk exposures of RBS and future risk strategy.
It reviews RBSs policy, risk management, operational issues and customer issues.
compliance with approved risk appetite and oversees the operation of RBS Policy Framework and submissions to regulators.
RCR Board Oversight Committee Provides oversight of RCRs progress against, and compliance with, its Group Performance and Remuneration Committee primary objective and asset management principles.
Responsible for approving remuneration policy and reviewing the effectiveness of its implementation.
It also considers senior executive remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of executive directors.
45 Our Board Chairman Philip Hampton age 61 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 19 January 2009 Board Senior Independent director of Anglo 3 February 2009 Chairman American plc, chairman of its Remuneration Committee and member of Experience: Previously chairman of J Sainsbury plc and the Audit Committee group finance director at Lloyds TSB Group, BT Group Non-executive director, chairman of the plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and British Steel plc, an Nominations Committee and chairman executive director of Lazards and a non-executive designate of GlaxoSmithKline plc director of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
He is also a former chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, Committee membership s which manages the UK Governments shareholdings in Group Nominations Committee Chairman banks.
RCR Board Oversight Committee Executive directors Chief Executive Ross McEwan age 57 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 October 2013 None Experience: He became Chief Executive of The Royal Committee membership s Bank of Scotland Group in October 2013.
Executive Committee Chairman Between August 2012 and September 2013, he was Chief Executive Officer for UK Retail, joining from Commonwealth Bank of Australia where he was Group Executive for Retail Banking Services for five years.
Prior to this he was Executive General Manager with responsibility for the branch network, contact centres and third party mortgage brokers.
Ross has more than 25 years experience in the finance, insurance and investment industries, and prior to Commonwealth Bank of Australia, was Managing Director of First NZ Capital Securities.
He was also Chief Executive of National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd AXA New Zealand Ltd.
He has an MBA from Harvard.
Chief Financial Officer Ewen Stevenson age 48 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 19 May 2014.
None Experience: Previously at Credit Suisse for 25 years Committee membership s where he was latterly co-Head of the EMEA Investment Executive Committee Banking Division and co-Head of the Global Financial Institutions Group.
Ewen has over 20 years of experience advising the banking sector while at Credit Suisse.
He has a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration majoring in Accountancy and a Bachelor of Law from Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand.
46 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Sandy Crombie age 66 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 June 2009 Member and vice-chairman of the Board of Senior Independent Director Governors of The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland Experience: Previously group chief executive of President of the Cockburn Association Standard Life plc and Chairman of Creative Scotland.
He was also previously a director of the Association of Committee membership s : British Insurers and Chairman of the Edinburgh World Group Performance and Remuneration City of Literature Trust.
In 2007 he was the Prince of Committee Chairman Wales Ambassador for Corporate Social Responsibility Group Audit Committee in Scotland.
Group Nominations Committee RCR Board Oversight Committee Alison Davis age 53 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Non-executive director and member of the audit and compensation committees of Experience: Previously, she served as a director of City Unisys Corporation National Bank and First Data Corporation and as chair of Non-executive director, chair of the the board of LECG Corporation.
She has also worked at compensation committee and member of McKinsey & Company, AT Kearney, as Chief Financial the audit committee of Diamond Foods Inc.
Officer at Barclays Global Investors now BlackRock Non-executive director, and member of the and as managing partner of Belvedere Capital, a private audit committee of Fiserv Inc equity firm focused on buy-outs in the financial services Non-executive director, Ooma Inc sector.
Committee membership s : Group Nominations Committee Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Sustainable Banking Committee Morten Friis age 62 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 10 April 2014 Member of the Board of Directors of The Canadian Institute for Advanced Research Experience: He has 34 years financial services Member of the Board of Directors of the experience and has previously held various roles at Harvard Business School Club of Toronto Royal Bank of Canada and its subsidiaries including Associate Director at Orion Royal Bank, Vice President, Committee membership s : Business Banking and Vice President, Financial Group Audit Committee Institutions.
In 1997, he was appointed as Senior Vice Group Nominations Committee President, Group Risk Management and served as the Board Risk Committee Chief Credit Officer then Chief Risk Officer from 2004 to 2014.
He was also previously a Director of RBC Bank USA, Westbury Life Insurance Company, RBC Life Insurance Company and of RBC Dexia Investor Services Trust Company.
47 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Robert Gillespie age 59 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 2 December 2013 Independent Board Director at Ashurst LLP Experience: Began his career with Price Waterhouse Chairman of Council at the University of now  where he qualified as a Durham chartered accountant.
He then moved into banking Chairman of the Somerset House Trust joining SG Warburg, specialising in corporate finance, Chairman of the Boat Race Company and was appointed as Co-Head and Managing Director Limited of its US investment banking business in 1989.
Following Director of Social Finance Limited the acquisition in 1995 of Warburg by Swiss Bank Corporation which subsequently merged with UBS, he Committee membership s : then held the roles of Head of UK Corporate Finance, Group Nominations Committee Head of European Corporate Finance and Co-Head of its Group Performance and Remuneration global business and CEO of the EMEA region.
He Committee relinquished his management roles at the end of 2005, Board Risk Committee and was appointed Vice Chairman of UBS Investment Sustainable Banking Committee Bank.
Robert left UBS to join Evercore Partners, from where he was seconded to the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, as Director General, from 2010 to 2013.
He is a non-executive director of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. Penny Hughes, CBE age 55 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 Non-executive director, chair of the corporate compliance and responsibility Experience: Previously a director and chairman of the committee and member of the audit, Remuneration Committee of Skandinaviska Enskilda nomination and remuneration committees Banken AB and a non-executive director of Home Retail of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc Group plc and chairman of its Remuneration Committee.
Trustee of the British Museum She spent the majority of her executive career at CocaCola where she held a number of leadership positions, Committee membership s : latterly as President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Sustainable Banking Committee Ireland.
Former non-executive directorships include Chairman Vodafone Group plc, Reuters Group PLC, Cable & Group Nominations Committee Wireless Worldwide plc and The Gap Inc. Board Risk Committee Brendan Nelson age 65 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 April 2010 Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of BP plc Experience: Former global chairman, financial services Member of the Financial Reporting Review for KPMG.
Previously held senior leadership roles within Panel KPMG including as a member of the KPMG UK board from 1999 to 2006 and as vice-chairman from 2006.
Committee membership s : Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Institute of Group Audit Committee Chairman Chartered Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008.
Group Nominations Committee President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of RCR Board Oversight Committee Scotland 2013 14.
Board Risk Committee 48 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Baroness Noakes, DBE age 65 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Deputy chairman, Ofcom Experience: An experienced director on UK listed Committee membership s : company boards with extensive and varied political and Board Risk Committee Chairman public sector experience.
A qualified chartered RCR Board Oversight Committee accountant, she previously headed KPMGs European Chairman and International Government practices and has been Group Audit Committee President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Group Nominations Committee England and Wales.
She was appointed to the House of Lords in 2000 and has served on the Conservative front bench in various roles including as shadow treasury minister between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously held non-executive roles on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, ICI, Severn Trent, Carpetright, John Laing and SThree.
Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel Aileen Taylor age 42 She is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Date of appointment: 1 May 2010 Bankers in Scotland and a member of the Company Secretary European Corporate Governance Council.
Experience: A qualified solicitor, joined RBS in 2000.
She was appointed Deputy Group Secretary and Head of Group Secretariat in 2007, and prior to that held various legal, secretariat and risk roles including Head of External Risk, Retail, Head of Regulatory Risk, Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Compliance at Direct Line Financial Services.
Executive Committee The Board is supported by the Executive Committee comprising the executive directors and other senior executives.
Details of the composition of the Executive Committee and biographies of its members can be found at www.
com about us corporate governance ceo and board executive committee 49 Corporate governance The Board The Board has ten directors comprising the Chairman, two executive The Chairmans key responsibilities are to: directors and seven independent non-executive directors, one of whom is provide strong and effective leadership to the Board: the Senior Independent Director.
ensure the Board is structured effectively and observes the highest Name Position Nationality standards of integrity and corporate governance: Philip Hampton Chairman British Ross McEwan Chief Executive New Zealand manage the business of the Board and set the agenda, style and Ewen Stevenson Chief Financial Officer British tone of Board discussions to promote effective decision-making and New Zealand constructive debate: Sandy Crombie Senior Independent Director British Alison Davis Independent non-executive director British USA facilitate the effective contribution and encourage active Morten Friis Independent non-executive director Norwegian engagement by all members of the Board: Robert Gillespie Independent non-executive director British Penny Hughes Independent non-executive director British in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Chief Governance Brendan Nelson Independent non-executive director British Officer and Board Counsel, ensure that members of the Board Baroness Noakes Independent non-executive director British receive accurate, timely and clear information, to enable the Board to lead RBS, take sound decisions and monitor effectively the Biographies for each director and details of which Board committees they performance of executive management: are members of can be found on pages 46 to 49.
The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment and that all nonensure that the performance of individual directors and of the Board executive directors are independent for the purposes of the Code.
as a whole and its committees is evaluated regularly: and Board Changes ensure RBS maintains effective communication with shareholders Non-executive directors Tony Di Iorio and Philip Scott stepped down from and other stakeholders.
the Board on 26 March 2014 and 31 October 2014 respectively.
Nathan Bostock stepped down from the Board on 28 May 2014.
RBS has Chief Executive announced that Philip Hampton will step down from the Board during The Chief Executive has responsibility for all of RBSs business and acts 2015. in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
Morten Friis was appointed as a non-executive director on 10 April 2014.
The Chief Executives key responsibilities are to: Ewen Stevenson was appointed as an executive director and Chief exercise executive responsibility for RBSs franchises and functions: Financial Officer on 19 May 2014. define, drive and deliver the overall strategic direction approved by On 25 February 2015 the Board approved the appointment of Howard the Board: Davies as non-executive director with effect from the end of June 2015 and as Chairman from 1 September 2015. drive and deliver performance against the RBSs financial plans and budget acting in accordance with authority delegated by the Board: Roles and responsibilities The Board consult regularly with the Chairman and Board on matters which The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of RBS may have a material impact on RBS: and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
The Boards terms of reference include key aspects of RBSs affairs reserved for the Boards act as a guardian and champion of the culture and values of RBS, decision and are reviewed at least annually.
The terms of reference are creating an environment where employees are engaged and available on rbs.
committed to good customer outcomes: Chairman lead the senior executive team and ensure there are clear The role of Chairman is distinct and separate from that of the Chief accountabilities for managing RBSs business and managing risk: Executive and there is a clear division of responsibilities with the and Chairman leading the Board and the Chief Executive managing RBSs business day to day.
in conjunction with the Chairman and Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel, ensure the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
50 Corporate governance Senior Independent Director facilitating good information flows between Board members and the Sandy Crombie, as Senior Independent Director, acts as a sounding Board and its committees: and board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for other directors when necessary.
He is also available to shareholders to discuss any concerns leading on implementation of recommendations from the annual they may have, as appropriate.
Non-executive directors Conflicts of interests Along with the Chairman and executive directors, the non-executive The company has procedures in place to ensure that the Boards powers directors are responsible for ensuring the Board fulfils its responsibilities for authorising actual or potential conflicts of interest are operating under its terms of reference.
The non-executive directors combine broad effectively.
On appointment, each director is provided with RBSs business and commercial experience with independent and objective guidelines for referring conflicts of interest to the Board.
Each director is judgement and they provide independent challenge to the executive required to notify any actual or potential conflicts of interest to the Board directors and the leadership team.
The balance between non-executive for consideration and to update the Board on an ongoing basis when he and executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective or she becomes aware of any changes.
leadership across RBSs business activities.
The Board considers each directors notification separately on the facts The standard terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive and can impose conditions or limitations as part of the authorisation directors are available on rbs.
com or from RBS Corporate Governance process.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest can be authorised by and Secretariat.
the Board in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
Details of all conflicts of interest are recorded in a register which is Board Committees maintained by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel and In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has reviewed annually by the Board.
established a number of Board committees with particular responsibilities.
Please see the corporate governance structure on page 45 for more Board meetings details.
The work of the Board committees are also discussed in their In 2014, nine Board meetings were scheduled and individual attendance individual reports as follows: by directors at these meetings is shown in the table below.
One of the Board meetings took place overseas during the Boards visit to RBSs US Group Nominations Committee - pages 55 and 56. businesses.
Group Audit Committee - pages 57 to 61.
Board Risk Committee - pages 62 to 68.
In addition to the nine scheduled meetings, 34 additional meetings of the RCR Board Oversight Committee pages 69 and 70.
Board and committees of the Board were held, including meetings to Sustainable Banking Committee - pages 71 and 72. consider and approve financial statements.
The Chairman and the nonGroup Performance and Remuneration Committee - pages 73 to 93. executive directors meet at least once per year without executive directors present.
Attended The terms of reference for each of these committees is available on scheduled rbs.
com and copies are also available on request from RBS Corporate Philip Hampton 9 9 Governance and Secretariat.
Ross McEwan 9 9 Ewen Stevenson 1 6 6 Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel Sandy Crombie 9 9 Aileen Taylor is the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel and is Alison Davis 9 9 also the Company Secretary.
Reporting directly to both the Chairman and Morten Friis 2 6 6 the Chief Executive, she is responsible for delivering commercial Robert Gillespie 9 9 corporate governance advice and support to the Board.
She acts as a Penny Hughes 9 9 trusted advisor in the effective functioning of the Board, ensuring Brendan Nelson 9 9 appropriate alignment and information flows between the Board and its Baroness Noakes 3 8 9 committees, including the Executive Committee.
As Board Counsel, she is responsible for the provision of legal advice to the Board.
Her Former directors responsibilities include: - Nathan Bostock 4 4 4 Tony Di lorio 5 3 3 advising on Board skills and composition including induction, Philip Scott 6 6 7 ongoing training and professional development: Notes: 1 Appointed to the Board on 19 May 2014.
2 Appointed to the Board on 10 April 2014. executive responsibility for Chairman non-executive Director search 3 Missed one meeting due to family bereavement.
and appointment process: 4 Stepped down from the Board on 28 May 2014.
5 Stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2014.
6 Stepped down from the Board 31 October 2014. leading on all aspects of corporate governance across RBS: 51 Corporate governance Principal activities of the Board during 2014 Franchise Chief Executives attend each Board meeting to provide an In advance of each Board meeting, the directors are provided with update on the performance of their businesses.
Other relevant senior comprehensive papers.
During 2014 there has been an enhanced focus executives including the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Regulatory Affairs on implementation of the new organisational design, building of capital Officer and the Chief Administration Officer attend Board meetings to and developing resilient systems.
These have been recurring themes present reports to the Board as appropriate.
This provides the Board with underpinning Board discussions during the year.
An overview of the an opportunity to engage directly with management on key issues and principal activities of the Board during 2014 is shown below.
supports the Boards succession planning activity.
Each meeting Board effectiveness Chairmans report Risk report including updates Skills and experience on the Board Chief Executives report on conduct matters The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide RBS with the Monthly results Reports from Committee appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge as well as Capital, funding & liquidity Chairmen independence.
Given the nature of the RBSs businesses, experience of Franchise updates Secretarys report routine banking and financial services is clearly of benefit, and we have a RCR update matters for approval noting number of directors with substantial experience in that area, but the Transformation programme Board also benefits from directors with experience in other fields.
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter The table below illustrates the breadth of skills and experience on the Budget Q1 results Board.
Remuneration proposals Resolution planning Annual results and AGM Board strategy offsite Retail Banking Chief Executive notice AGM preparations Other Financial Services Finance & Accountancy Board & Committee Dividend Access Share Markets Investment Banking Risk evaluations Retirement Agreement Utilities Technology Digital Internal Audit evaluation Citizens IPO Government & Public Sector Operations External Auditor evaluation Stress testing Mergers & Acquisitions Change Management Dividend Access Share Internal Capital Adequacy Corporate Restructuring Consumer Facing Retirement agreement Assessment Process Stakeholder Management Board session with Andrew Scottish independence Tyrie, Treasury Select considerations Committee Board committees also comprise directors with a variety of skills and RBS contingency funding experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
plan Global Restructuring Group Induction and professional development deep dive Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, which Capital plan is co-ordinated by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
This Scottish independence includes visits to RBSs major businesses and function and meetings with considerations directors and senior management.
Meetings with the external auditors and external counsel are also arranged.
Each induction programme has a 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter core element that the director is required to complete with the remainder Interim results Q3 results of the programme tailored to the new directors specific requirements.
An High net worth review ICB update example of an induction programme for a new non-executive director is Scottish independence CIB strategy review set out below: contingency planning High net worth review Individual Liquidity Adequacy Succession planning session Chairman Franchise Chief Executives Assessment IT resilience exercise Chief Executive Business visits UK and 2014 recovery plan Ulster Bank strategic review Chief Financial Officer overseas PRA Board effectiveness Political risk 2015 Senior Independent Director Finance review Technology update Board committee Chairs Risk Board session with PRA Chief Governance Officer and Board Internal Audit Board session with FCA Counsel Tax Board session with UKFI Chief Risk Officer Human Resources ICB updates Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer Investor Relations CIB strategy review RBS Treasurer Strategy & Corporate RBS entrepreneurial RBS Chief Legal Officer and General Development programme Counsel Communications and Citizens IPO External Auditor Marketing Board evaluation update External Counsel Institutional Investors 52 Corporate governance The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel advises directors of Election and re-election of directors appropriate external training and professional development opportunities In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors of the and internal training is also provided which is relevant to the business of company are required to stand for election or re-election annually by RBS.
Business visits are also arranged as part of the Group Audit shareholders at the companys Annual General Meeting and in Committee and Board Risk Committee schedule details of which can be accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the election or re-election of found on pages 58 and 64 and all non-executive directors are invited to independent directors requires approval by all shareholders and also by attend.
Directors undertake the training they consider necessary to assist independent shareholders.
them in carrying out their duties and responsibilities as directors.
Performance evaluation During 2014, the directors received updates on a range of subjects to In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board takes enhance their knowledge, including: place every three years.
An internal evaluation takes place in the intervening years.
ICB Ring-fencing The Senior Persons Regime The 2012 evaluation was conducted externally by a specialist board The revised UK Corporate Governance Code evaluation consultancy.
The 2013 evaluation was conducted internally by CRD IV Directorship Limits and Subsidiary Compliance the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel and a number of Shareholder Rights Directive initiatives were implemented aimed at improving the overall performance Banking Standards Review Council and effectiveness of the Board.
These included keeping Board and PRA Consultation on proposed changes to the Remuneration Code committee composition under review: ensuring sufficient time on Board EU Market Abuse Regulations and impact on RBS agendas for Board oversight of key strategic areas: a review of risk Listing Rule changes reporting and a focus on regular contact with external stakeholders.
Department of Business, Innovation and Skills Proposals on These topics have been appropriately addressed and will be kept under Transparency and Trust regular review as a matter of good practice.
The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel maintains continuing In 2014, the Board and committee evaluation process was conducted professional development logs.
These are reviewed regularly with internally by the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
A directors to assist in identifying future training and development comprehensive review of the Boards effectiveness was also carried out opportunities that are specific to the individual directors requirements.
by the Prudential Regulation Authority during 2014.
Information Performance evaluation process All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel undertook a formal matters and have access to the advice and services of the Chief evaluation by: Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
In addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent professional advice at the companys preparing surveys that were completed by each director and holding expense.
interviews with each director: Time commitment discussing the outcomes and recommendations with the Chairman: There is an anticipated time commitment in line with the and recommendations of the Walker Review in respect of general Board duties and additional time as necessary in respect of committee duties.
recommending the outcomes and areas for improvement to the However, as stated in the Chairmans introductory letter to his Corporate Board.
governance report, the time commitment currently required of our nonexecutive directors is significant.
Each director is required to seek the Amongst the areas reviewed were Board composition, Board meetings agreement of the Chairman before accepting additional commitments that and processes, information quality and flows, external relationships and might affect the time the director is able to devote to his or her role as a priorities for 2015. non-executive director of RBS.
Directors have also been briefed on the limits on the number of other directorships that they can hold under the requirements of fourth Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV.
The Board monitors the other commitments of the Chairman and directors and is satisfied that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
53 Corporate governance Outcomes of the 2014 performance evaluation Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual The 2014 performance evaluation concluded that the Board was strong General Meeting and any General Meetings held or can submit written and operated effectively and within its terms of reference throughout questions in advance.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen 2014.
Key strengths identified included: of the Board committees are available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
the Board performed strongly during a challenging 2014, demonstrating alignment with RBS values: Communication with the company's largest institutional shareholders is undertaken as part of the Investor Relations programme: the dynamic between Board members was good and on the whole members worked well together, creating effective challenge, debate the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with and oversight: and UKFI, the organisation set up to manage the Governments investments in financial institutions, to discuss the strategy and the Boards committees operated effectively within their terms of financial performance of the business.
The Chief Executive and reference throughout the year providing strong support to the Board.
Chief Financial Officer also undertake an extensive annual programme of meetings with the companys largest institutional A summary of the key themes arising from the 2014 performance shareholders.
evaluation is set out below, together with an overview of the proposed actions: the Chairman independently meets with RBSs largest institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on management, Key themes included Proposed action strategy, business performance and corporate governance.
Board and Board Keep Board and Board committee composition Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and committee under review during 2015, to ensure balance of chairmen of the Board committees met with the governance composition skills, experience, independence, knowledge and representatives of a number of institutional shareholders during the diversity remains appropriate.
Succession planning Ensure that an effective succession planning the Senior Independent Director is available if any shareholder has process is in place at Board and Executive level.
concerns that they feel are not being addressed through the normal channels.
Board and Committee Ensure that Board and Committee agendas for agendas 2015 minimise duplication and allow effective the Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration oversight of key areas of strategic focus, sufficient Committee consults extensively with major shareholders in respect time for debate and focus on the RBS priorities, of the Groups remuneration policy.
In 2014, RBS continued its programme of UK-based events aimed at Information Continue to improve and enhance the information individual shareholders.
These events provided an opportunity for presented to the Board and Committees.
shareholders to meet with directors and senior management to learn more about the business.
Professional Enhance the professional development development programme provided to Board members.
Throughout the year, the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews Committee communicate shareholder feedback to the Board.
The The Chairman met with each director individually to discuss their own directors also receive independent analyst notes and reports reviewing performance and ongoing professional development and also shared share price movements and performance against the sector.
Detailed peer feedback that had been provided as part of the evaluation process.
market and shareholder feedback is provided to the Board after major Separately, the Senior Independent Director sought feedback on the public announcements such as a results release.
The arrangements in Chairmans performance and canvassed views on the Chairmans place are to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the views performance from the non-executive directors collectively.
The results of of major shareholders and that these are considered as part of the annual the Chairmans effectiveness review were then discussed by the Board evaluation.
Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The Investor Relations programme also includes communications aimed Relations with investors specifically at its fixed income debt investors.
The Chief Financial The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication with Officer and or the RBS Treasurer give regular presentations to fixed shareholders.
The company communicates with shareholders through the income investors to discuss strategy and financial performance.
There is Annual Report and Accounts and by providing information in advance of also a separate section on the RBS website for fixed income investors the Annual General Meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise matters which includes information on credit ratings, securitisation programmes relating to their shareholdings and the business of RBS at any time and securities documentation.
Further information is available at throughout the year by letter, telephone or email via rbs.
54 Report of the Group Nominations Committee Attended scheduled Philip Hampton Chairman 4 4 Sandy Crombie 4 4 Alison Davis 4 4 Morten Friis 1 4 4 Robert Gillespie 4 4 Penny Hughes 4 4 Brendan Nelson 4 4 Baroness Noakes 4 4 Former members Dear Shareholder, Tony Di lorio 2 Philip Scott 3 3 4 As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Group Nominations Notes: Committee I am pleased to present our report on the committee's activity 1 Appointed to the Committee on 10 April 2014.
2 Stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2014. during 2014.
3 Stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2014.
Role and responsibilities Chairman search The Group Nominations Committee engages with external consultants, In September 2014, it was announced that I would step down as considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new Chairman in 2015.
The search for my successor commenced directors to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Group Nominations immediately.
In line with the Code, I did not chair the Nominations Committee are reviewed annually and approved by the Board and are Committee meetings in relation to these discussions.
Egon Zehnder International EZ has been engaged to support the search Principal activity during 2014 process for the new Chairman.
EZ does not provide services to any other The Committee continues to monitor succession planning on an ongoing part of the RBS.
A job specification has been prepared, which includes an basis taking into account business requirements and industry assessment of the time commitment expected.
The Committee has held developments.
In 2014, discussions principally focussed on the Chairman a number of discussions on potential candidates internal and external search and the search for new non-executive directors.
The Board held a and engaged with RBSs key stakeholders to seek their views on separate session on succession planning in September 2014, covering candidates.
On 25 February the Board approved the appointment of the Executive Committee and an update on RBSs People Strategy.
Howard Davies as a non-executive director with effect from the end of June and as Chairman from 1 September 2015.
Membership and meetings All non-executive directors are members of the Group Nominations Consideration of new non-executive directors Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The RBS EZ has continued to support the search for new non-executive directors Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are invited to attend during 2014 following the departure of Art Ryan, Tony Di Iorio and Philip meetings.
Scott and to support the future Board succession planning.
The search for potential candidates is continuing.
The Group Nominations Committee holds at least two scheduled meetings per year, and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
In 2014, there were four scheduled Group Nominations Committee meetings, which I chaired, and individual attendance by directors at these meetings is shown in the table below.
In addition a number of ad hoc meetings were held to discuss Chairman succession.
55 Report of the Group Nominations Committee Tenure of non-executive directors The chart below details the gender diversity of the Board.
The chart below sets out the tenure of non-executive directors.
Female 0-2 years 2-4 years Male 4 years In accordance with the recommendations contained within Lord Davies Board and Committee membership report, the Board operates a boardroom diversity policy and a copy of the Board and Committee membership was reviewed in 2014 and the Boards diversity statement is available on rbs.
following Committee membership changes were made: RBS understands the importance of diversity and, with regard to gender Robert Gillespie was appointed a member of the Board Risk diversity, recognises the importance of women having greater Committee, Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and representation at key decision making points in organisations.
The search Sustainable Banking Committee with effect from 1 April 2014: for Board candidates will continue to be conducted, and nominations appointments made, with due regard to the benefits of Baroness Noakes was appointed Chairman of the Board Risk diversity on the Board, however, all appointments to the Board are Committee and RCR Board Oversight Committee with effect from 1 ultimately based on merit, measured against objective criteria, and the April 2014: skills and experience the individual can bring to the Board.
Morten Friis was appointed a member of the Board Risk Committee The balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity and Group Audit Committee with effect from 10 April 2014: on the Board, and how the Board operates together as a unit is reviewed annually as part of the Board evaluation.
Where appropriate, findings Sandy Crombie was appointed Chairman of the Group Performance from the evaluation will be considered in the search, nomination and and Remuneration Committee with effect from 25 June 2014: and appointment process.
If appropriate, additional targets on diversity will be developed in due course.
Penny Hughes was appointed Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee with effect from 25 June 2014.
Further details on RBSs approach to diversity can be found on page 98.
Boardroom diversity The Board remains supportive of Lord Davies recommendations and currently exceeds the target of 25 per cent female board representation as set out in Lord Davies report.
Philip Hampton Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee 25 February 2015 56 Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, The Committee continued to oversee the Markets Control Remediation Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Programme MCRP during the year.
It is anticipated that all aspects of this programme will have been successfully delivered within 2015.
However, there remains further work to be done within the business to improve controls and to drive cultural change.
A wider programme of cultural and control remediation across the former Markets division has commenced in 2015.
An effective three lines of defence model is critical to the success of cultural change and strengthening internal controls across the organisation.
The model has been developed further during 2014: it is now more clearly articulated and principles based.
However, while the process of embedding the three lines of defence within the new organisational construct has begun, more work is required and this needs Dear Shareholder, to remain a priority for RBS in 2015.
In conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the Audit Committee will exercise oversight of progress.
There have been a number of changes to the membership of the Audit Committee during 2014.
I would like to begin by welcoming Sandy One of the most significant pieces of work for the Audit Committee during Crombie and Morten Friis, who joined the Committee in April 2014.
Both 2014 was the tender process to select an external auditor from the year bring a wealth of experience across finance, risk and control matters and commencing 1 January 2016.
Following a competitive tender process, have already made valuable contributions to the work of the Committee.
the Committee recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP EY I would also like to extend my gratitude to Tony Di Iorio and Philip Scott be appointed.
A transition period will commence during 2015 to ensure who stood down as members of the Board and Committee in March and EY are familiar with RBSs internal processes.
Deloitte will continue as October 2014, respectively.
The Committee also welcomed Ewen RBSs external auditor throughout 2015, and I would like to take this Stevenson to RBS, who succeeded Nathan Bostock as Chief Financial opportunity to formally thank the firm and its partners for its work as Officer.
auditor of RBS and its subsidiaries over the last 14 years.
While the tender process and the transitional period inevitably have involved and The key priority of the Audit Committee during 2014 has been to monitor will continue to involve considerable work, I firmly believe that the the integrity of RBSs financial statements, focusing in particular on the appointment of EY will ensure that RBS continues to receive the highest quality and transparency of disclosure, and to support the ongoing quality advice and external audit services.
strengthening of the internal control environment.
EY also carried out an external review of the effectiveness of Internal Owing to favourable credit conditions and the delivery of the early cost Audit.
The review compared Internal Audits current audit policies, saving benefits from RBSs Transformation Programme, RBS procedures and practices to the applicable regulatory and industry experienced better than anticipated operating performance during the standards.
The Committee were pleased to note that notwithstanding the year.
The Audit Committee supported the Board in its decision to release level of change within the organisation, Internal Audit has made progress trading statements ahead of the half year and Q3 reporting periods.
in key areas identified within its strategic plan, including enhancing its role, people and audit processes.
The review also highlighted future Throughout the reporting period, through discussion and deliberation with areas of focus for the function, including a continued focus on retention Management, the Committee satisfied itself that the key accounting and recruitment of skilled personnel and identification of opportunities to decisions, risks and significant management judgements that underlie the increase further the efficiency and effectiveness of audit processes.
The Committee reviewed the Action plans are in place to address all detailed findings and will be conclusions of the External Auditor and, where applicable, other experts tracked to closure.
and concluded that disclosures in the financial statements about these judgements and estimates were transparent and appropriate.
A more The oversight role and specific business of the Committee in these and detailed account of the most material issues considered by the other related areas are explained in more detail in the Committees full Committee is set out in the report below.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I reported after each meeting to the The Audit Committee also focused on the effectiveness of internal Board on the principal matters discussed to ensure all directors were controls.
In 2014, RBS embarked on its journey of transformation to a informed of the Committees work.
2014 has been another challenging simpler and more efficient organisation.
While the Transformation year for the Committee.
However, I believe that the balance of skills and Programme will ultimately bring long term benefits, the scale of change is experience amongst the members has enabled the Committee to strike not to be underestimated and the Audit Committee has monitored the the correct balance between independent oversight and challenge and short term impact on RBSs control environment.
I would like to thank my fellow members for their contribution to the effective Committee performance in 2014.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 25 February 2015 57 Report of the Group Audit Committee Report of the Group Audit Committee The Board is satisfied that all Audit Committee members have recent and Meetings and visits relevant financial experience and that each member of the Group Audit A total of seven scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee were held in Committee is independent as defined in the SEC rules under the US 2014, including meetings held immediately before the annual and interim Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act and related financial statements and the quarterly interim management statements guidance.
The Board has further determined that Brendan Nelson, were considered by the Board.
The Committee also held six ad hoc Committee Chairman, and Baroness Noakes are both financial experts meetings.
Meetings are attended by relevant executive directors, the for the purposes of compliance with the Exchange Act Rules and the Internal and External Auditors and Finance, Legal and Risk Management requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.
Philip Scott was also executives.
Other executives, subject matter experts and external deemed to be a financial expert for the same purposes, throughout his advisers are also invited to attend, as required, to present and advise on tenure as a Committee member.
Full biographical details of the reports commissioned by the Committee.
At least twice a year the Audit Committee members are set out on pages 46 to 49.
Committee meets privately with the External Auditors and separately with Internal Audit management.
Performance evaluation An evaluation of the Group Audit Committees operation was conducted During 2014 members of the Group Audit Committee, in conjunction with internally in 2014.
Overall the review concluded that the Audit Committee members of the Board Risk Committee, took part in an annual continued to operate effectively.
The Committee has considered and programme of visits to businesses and control functions in order to gain a discussed the outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in closer understanding of the risks and control issues they face.
This value which they have been conducted, the conclusions and the adding programme included visits to Commercial and Private Banking: recommendations to be taken forward.
The evaluation praised the wellCorporate and Institutional Banking: Technology Services: Finance: Risk run manner of the Committee and the positive dynamic between Management and Conduct & Regulatory Affairs twice : Internal Audit members.
The allocation of business to the Committee was considered to twice.
be appropriate, although it was acknowledged it was a heavy agenda.
Recommendations for improvements focused on quality and volume of Membership of the Group Audit Committee papers provided to the Committee.
This will be addressed via a bankThe Group Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive wide programme to refresh the paper format and guidelines for directors.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, together with submission to senior Committees and Boards.
their attendance at scheduled meetings, are shown below.
Attended The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and the scheduled Committee will track progress during 2015.
Brendan Nelson Chairman 7 7 Sandy Crombie 1 4 4 In addition, the PRA undertook a review of the effectiveness of the Board Morten Friis 2 4 4 and its senior committees throughout 2014, including the Group Audit Baroness Noakes 7 7 Committee.
The outcomes of this evaluation will be reported to the Board in due course and recommendations will be progressed as appropriate.
Former members Tony Di Iorio 3 3 3 The role and responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee Philip Scott 4 5 6 The Group Audit Committees primary responsibilities are set out in its Notes: terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Committee and 1 Became a member of the Committee on 1 April 2014.
2 Became a member of the Committee on 10 April 2014. approved by the Board.
These terms of reference are available on the 3 Stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2014.
4 Stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2014.
Brendan Nelson, Morten Friis and Baroness Noakes are also members of Allocation of Group Audit Committee agenda time the Board Risk Committee.
Philip Scott was also a member of the Board Risk Committee until he stood down from the Board.
Sandy Crombie is Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
This common membership helps facilitate effective governance across all finance and risk issues: ensures that compensation decisions reflect relevant finance and risk considerations: and that agendas are aligned and overlap of responsibilities is avoided where possible.
The members of the Audit Committee are selected with a view to the expertise and experience of the Committee as a whole and with proper regard for the key issues and challenges facing RBS.
58 Report of the Group Audit Committee Financial reporting and policy the quality and transparency of disclosures contained within the The Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgements and external financial statements.
reporting issues in the preparation of the 2014 accounts.
In particular, the Committee considered: As part of its overall assessment of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee assisted the Board in determining that the Annual Report and The evidence including in relation to RBSs capital, liquidity and Accounts taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable, funding position to support the directors going concern conclusion.
providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Further information is set out on page 99: companys performance, business model and strategy.
A comprehensive review process supports both the Audit Committee and ultimately the The adequacy of loan impairment provisions, focusing particularly Board in reaching their conclusion: on the judgements and methodology applied to provisions in RCR, given the exit strategy for the business and sensitivity to market The production of the Annual Report and Accounts is co-ordinated conditions.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall loan centrally by the Financial Controller with guidance on requirements impairment provisions and underlying assumptions and being provided to individual contributors: methodologies were reasonable and applied consistently: The Annual Report and Accounts is reviewed by the Executive Valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the Audit carried at fair value including RBSs credit market exposures and Committee: and own liabilities assessed at fair value: A management certification process requires members of the The appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill and other Executive Committee and other senior executives to provide intangible assets.
Particular consideration was given to the confirmation following their review of the Annual Report and classification of Citizens Financial Group CFG in light of the Initial Accounts that they consider them to be fair, balanced and Public Offering IPO and planned disposal.
was agreed that CFG should be re-classified as a disposal group and as a discontinued operation: This process is also undertaken in respect of the half year and quarterly results announcements.
In addition, the External Auditor considers the The judgements that had been made by management in assessing Boards statement as part of its audit requirements.
the recoverability of deferred tax assets, bearing in mind RBSs simplification agenda and the potential impact of ICB and ringSystems of internal control fencing: Remediation of known control issues has remained a focus of the Valuation of the Groups main defined benefit pension scheme.
As noted in the letter from the Committee Committee considered the assumptions that had been set in valuing Chairman, on behalf of the Board the Committee has continued to the fund and the sensitivities of those assumptions.
oversee the Control Remediation Programmes within the Markets division MCRP and has challenged management on the prioritisation of The methodology and assumptions underlying the level of provision issues, delivery of remediation, quality assurance and contingency plans.
held and or the appropriateness of required disclosure in relation to: The Committee received reports from Risk Management and Internal Audit and commissioned independent assurance that: the remediation redress, specifically in relation to Payment Protection Insurance programmes were progressing in accordance with plan: issues were and Interest Rate Hedging Products: being remediated to industry standard: and internal reporting accurately reflected progress.
It is anticipated that MCRP will conclude, with ongoing regulatory and litigation actions: including foreign delivery of all necessary actions completed, during the first part of 2015. exchange trading: retail mortgage backed securities litigation in the US: and UK shareholder actions.
Notwithstanding the progress achieved in MCRP, the Committee Following review, the Committee was satisfied that overall the level remained concerned about the lack of improvement to the Markets of provision held is appropriate and that disclosure is balanced and control environment rating, regarding regulatory concerns around the transparent: lack of cultural shift and in light of the foreign exchange trading issues.
The Committee invited management to report on improvements to the the assessment by management of the adequacy and effectiveness business and to provide assurances that the business was addressing of internal controls over financial reporting which had identified the risks in an appropriate and sound manner.
A larger project will begin deficiencies in the banks privileged user access controls within in 2015 which will encompass specific remediation issues and wider Technology Services.
The Committee monitored remediation cultural change.
This will be closely monitored by the Board Risk progress and received regular reports on actions undertaken by the Committee and Group Audit Committee in 2015. business to address the weaknesses.
The Committee has received assurances that the majority of significant items have been closed and that the issue did not lead to the identification of any errors in the financial statements: 59 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key to the success of the remediation programme will be an effective As discussed in the report of the Board Risk Committee set out on page three lines of defence model.
In conjunction with the Board Risk 62 to 68, the effectiveness of the Divisional Risk and Audit Committees Committee, this has been a primary area of focus for the Audit was considered in 2013.
In response to management feedback, Committee during 2014.
The Committee supported managements consideration was given to alternative mechanisms that could more proposals to transition the policy to be more principles-based.
The effectively provide a line of sight into business risk and audit issues.
A governance of the model has been simplified and streamlined.
However, revised construct of standardised Business Risk Committees, chaired by further work is required to ensure the revised model is fully embedded business Chief Executives, was created and implemented in 2014, with and operating effectively in practice.
As such, the Committee has responsibility for the consideration of all risk issues.
These Committees requested a clear articulation of end-state and a plan to reach that goal also consider finance and audit issues on a quarterly basis and provide which will be closely monitored during 2015.
In addition, the Committee reports to the Board Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
A review of has agreed that each business will report on progress at Committee visits effectiveness of the Committees will be undertaken in 2015. in 2015.
The Committee has considered RBSs compliance with the requirements Regular updates on RBSs credit quality assurance testing were received of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and is satisfied in this respect.
These reports highlighted certain weaknesses within Internal audit the wealth credit business and the Committee requested that The Committee received regular reports and opinions from Internal Audit management report on action being taken to address these issues.
The audit universe was refreshed during the year to Root causes of the weaknesses have been identified and remediation remain aligned with the evolving shape of the bank as the Transformation programmes have been established to address the underlying issues.
Audit officers are The Committee will review closely plans and progress during 2015. working closely with the businesses to ensure the work undertaken is appropriate in both the short and longer term.
Bi-annual reports were also noted in relation to RBS notifiable event process and alerts on each major event are received by the Chairman of The Committee received regular updates on the progress of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
implementation of Internal Audits strategic plan.
It also considered and approved Internal Audits annual plan for 2014 and monitored progress The Finance and Risk System Transformation FiRST was kept under against it during the year.
Consideration was also given to resourcing the review of the Committee in 2014.
A strategic review of the levels and the impact of the Transformation Programme and other programmes aims, progress and deliverables was undertaken by changes taking place across RBS.
During two visits to Internal Audit in management in light of the new RBS model.
A proposal was presented to 2014, the Committee reviewed external co-sourcing arrangements and the Committee under which the programme scope will now be more recruitment strategies aimed at ensuring any capability gaps were streamlined with a narrower set of priorities, which should enable appropriately addressed.
Significant progress has been made and the delivery.
External independent assurances on the suitability of the benefits are being observed across the function.
Overall the Committee revised plan were provided.
Progress will be monitored closely by the is satisfied that the function is appropriately resourced.
The reporting arrangements for the Chief Audit Executive have remained During 2014 the Committee has received reports on the ongoing work of unchanged in 2014: the role continues to report to the Chairman of the the Sensitive Investigations Unit.
It was also updated on the Audit Committee, with a secondary reporting line to the Chief Executive whistleblowing arrangements RBS has in place for employees to raise for administrative purposes.
The Chief Audit Executive exercises his right concerns and received reports on incidents reported and investigated.
of attendance at Executive Committee meetings, and Internal Audit This is an important tool for employees to raise issues and to identify officers regularly attend relevant business-level meetings as appropriate.
The Committee considered the enhancements made to the process during the year and also discussed the output of an The annual review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was undertaken Internal Audit review.
Following a competitive tender process, EY was appointed to perform this.
Their report concluded that Internal Audit had In line with the Committees terms of reference, consideration was given operated effectively during the year.
Certain recommendations were to managements processes for identifying and responding to the risk of made to enhance particular practices within the function.
implemented during 2015, with progress tracked by the Committee.
60 Report of the Group Audit Committee Oversight of the Banks relationship with its regulators A competitive tender was undertaken in 2014 to select an auditor for the audit of RBS and its subsidiaries in 2016 and future periods.
Following As set out in the terms of reference, the Committee has a responsibility this, and due consideration by the Audit Committee and the Board, EY to monitor the relationship with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA was chosen.
A transition period will take place in 2015, during which EY and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and other relevant will reach a point of independence from RBS and will begin to shadow regulatory bodies.
the audit process to ensure it is well informed to commence as the External Auditor in 2016.
Regular reports were received by the Committee on the status of ongoing regulatory investigations.
Any significant developments in the relationship with the regulators were noted by the Committee.
The Committee Audit and non-audit services members met, individually and together with other Board members, with The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the the PRA and the FCA during the year as part of their regular interaction External Auditor to supply audit and non-audit services, which takes into with the regulator.
account relevant legislation regarding the provision of such services by an external audit firm.
The Committee reviews the policy annually and The Committee also tracked progress in relation to mandatory and prospectively approves the provision of audit services and certain nonremedial projects and challenged the management of individual business audit services by the External Auditor.
areas and functions on the ability to meet regulatory expectations, responsibilities and the level of resource required to do so.
For all other permitted non-audit services, Group Audit Committee approval must be sought in advance, on a case-by-case basis.
A External audit competitive tender process is required for all proposed non-audit services During 2014, the External Auditor provided the Group Audit Committee engagements where the fees are expected to exceed 100,000. with reports summarising its main observations and conclusions arising Engagements below 100,000 may be approved by the Chairman of the from the year end audit, half year review and work in connection with the Group Audit Committee: as an additional governance control all first and third quarter financial results and any recommendations for engagements have to be approved by the Financial Controller and enhancements to RBSs reporting and controls.
The External Auditor also Supply Chain Services.
Where the engagement is tax related, approval presented for approval to the Committee its audit plan and audit fee must also be obtained from the Director of RBS Tax.
Ad hoc approvals of proposal and engagement letter, as well as confirmation of its non-audit services are ratified by the Group Audit Committee each independence and a comprehensive report of all non-audit fees.
During 2014, the External Auditor was approved to undertake certain significant engagements which are explained more fully below: The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the Assurance testing in relation to RBSs 2013 Sustainability Report.
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant The External Auditor was selected given its significant experience in professional and regulatory requirements.
The evaluation sought the specialist sustainability reporting.
An improved fee was also views of Committee members and attendees and other key members of negotiated.
In assessing the effectiveness of the External Auditor, the Provision of a compliance report required to comply with an Audit Committee had regard to the experience of the audit engagement amendment by the SEC to certain broker-dealer annual reporting team: the scope of the audit work planned and executed: standards of requirements.
Standard industry practice is for the External Auditor communication and reporting: quality of insights on the internal control to be appointed to perform this work.
Provision of advice and assistance to RBS Capital Resolution in formulating deleveraging strategies and transaction preparation.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Data gathering, due diligence and information assessment was also Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the undertaken.
Following a review of all advisors in this area, Deloitte External Auditors.
In order to make a recommendation to the Board, the was selected in recognition of the teams position as one of the Audit Committee considers and discusses the performance of the leaders in the European loan portfolio sale market, particularly in the External Auditor, taking account of the outcomes of the annual evaluation relevant geographies.
The Board submits the Audit Committee's recommendations to shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and permitted under the policy can be found on the website www.
Information The Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of the External on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the Auditor and also fixes their remuneration as authorised by shareholders External Auditor can be found in Note 5 to the consolidated accounts on at the Annual General Meeting.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 25 February 2015 61 Report of the Board Risk Committee Letter from Baroness Noakes, The outcome was a stark reminder of the importance of culture and Chairman of the Board Risk Committee integrity in banking.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee monitored the resulting disciplinary and accountability processes and made recommendations to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee on action to be taken.
The Committee will continue to oversee interactions on this matter with RBSs other regulators in 2015.
Details of other conduct and litigation matters under review of the Committee are set out in the Committee report.
It is always disappointing to have to consider behaviour which falls below expected standards.
While the Committee plays a key role in ensuring appropriate action is taken when things go wrong, it is important to instil values that will eliminate this conduct at the outset.
Driving a strong and healthy risk culture is fundamental to this.
During 2014, RBS has Dear Shareholder, commenced a programme of work to benchmark its risk culture both against peers and heightened regulatory expectations.
The Committee This is my first letter to you as Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, has supported this programme wholeheartedly and will review a plan in having succeeded Philip Scott on 1 April 2014.
I have been a member of early 2015 which will articulate how the bank can define and embed a the Committee since 1 March 2012.
On behalf of the Committee, I would stronger risk culture and evidence that this is effective.
like to thank Philip for his leadership as Chairman over the previous four years.
I would also like to thank Sandy Crombie and Tony Di Iorio for Equally important is ensuring that the accountabilities of our staff are their work as members of the Committee: both stood down at the end of clear and transparent.
In conjunction with the Group Audit Committee, the March.
In April we welcomed three new members to the Committee: members have reviewed progress in embedding the three lines of Morten Friis, Robert Gillespie and Penny Hughes who have already defence model across RBS.
While progress has been made to develop made significant contributions.
definition and design principles, significant work is still required to articulate and embed the operating model within businesses.
This will be The purpose of this report is to describe how the Committee discharged a priority in 2015. its responsibilities during 2014 and to provide details of the material and significant issues which it considered and debated during the course of RBS was fined in November 2014 for failing to put in place resilient IT the year.
It should provide a sense of the breadth of the Committees systems.
During the year, the Board Risk Committee has continued to work, which included focus on conduct risk, credit risk, market risk, oversee the remediation activity following the IT incident, which occurred operational risk, people risk, regulatory risk and reputational risk.
It has also considered accountability.
Independent assurance reflection of the increased demands on the Committee, the number of has been provided by PwC that the work undertaken by the business has scheduled meetings during 2014 was increased from seven to nine.
This been appropriate and addresses the key areas requiring remediation.
However, more remains to be done and the Committee will continue to ensure in 2015 that changes are sustained and risks are appropriately The backdrop throughout 2014 for RBS has been one of significant identified and escalated.
In February, the bank announced its new strategy to be a smaller, simpler UK focused bank.
It mobilised a transformation The Committee has dedicated considerable effort in 2014 to reviewing programme with the objective of implementing the future bank-wide external and internal stress testing exercises.
The Committee reviewed operating model and required process and technology changes.
The and recommended to the Board the submissions to the European Board Risk Committee assumed responsibility for monitoring execution Banking Authority EBA and the Bank of England BoE and approved risk.
It received regular reports on progress, including independent the reverse stress test trigger framework.
Unfortunately, in November opinions from Risk Management, Internal Audit and HR.
Monitoring the 2014 an error was identified in the calculation of the modelled Common risks associated with the transformation programme will continue Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio in the EBA stress test results which led to throughout 2015 and beyond.
RBSs published CET1 stress test ratios being overstated.
Independent assurance was sought and the error was corrected.
The Committee will The objective underpinning RBSs revised strategy is gaining customers continue to closely monitor the actions being taken to avoid a repeat of trust and putting customers needs at its core.
Unfortunately, in 2014 RBS this error until it is clear that we can deliver against our own and continued to deal with certain significant conduct issues that have regulatory expectations for stress testing.
hindered the speed of RBSs recovery and damaged its reputation.
Of particular concern were the issues associated with manipulation of foreign exchange markets.
The Committee oversaw the internal and regulatory investigations which ultimately led to the imposition of a substantial fine in November 2014, by the FCA and US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.
62 Report of the Board Risk Committee Other material areas of Committee focus during the year have included: Key Priorities for 2015 The report demonstrates the substantial efforts being taken to reduce the consideration of the risk appetite framework of RBS to ensure it level of risk at RBS, under the oversight of the Committee.
However, it is remains fit for purpose in light of internal restructuring, market important to note that risk reduction remains a work in progress.
positioning and regulatory changes: Management is continually striving to enhance the safety and soundness of the bank, and will continue to pursue actions to bring RBS within risk planned improvements to the Operational Risk Management appetite.
The Board Risk Committee will monitor progress closely and Framework: will oversee the quality and quantity of available resources to ensure they are sufficient to achieve real improvement.
Other priorities will include risk the capital and liquidity position of RBS and related regulatory culture, risk appetite, operational risk management, cyber risk and submissions: information security: and the execution risks associated with strategic initiatives.
improvements to risk reporting: and 2014 was another challenging year for the Board Risk Committee and I assessment of the risk performance of both businesses and would like to extend my thanks to my fellow members and to RBSs individuals and consideration of the accountability and behaviour of senior leadership team for the additional time they have dedicated to the individuals in relation to specific matters.
More detailed information on each of these areas is set out in the Board Risk Committee report that follows.
Baroness Noakes Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 25 February 2015 63 Report of the Board Risk Committee Meetings and visits Baroness Noakes, Morten Friis and Brendan Nelson are also members of The Board Risk Committee held nine scheduled meetings and four ad the Group Audit Committee.
Philip Scott was a member of the Group hoc meetings in 2014.
The ad hoc meetings were required to consider: Audit Committee until he stood down from the Group Board on 31 the Clifford Chance report into the allegations set out in the Tomlinson October 2014.
Robert Gillespie is also a member of the Group Report: the EBA stress test results: risk performance of businesses and Performance and Remuneration Committee and the Sustainable Banking individuals: and accountability matters relating to the manipulation of the Committee, and Penny Hughes chairs the Sustainable Banking foreign exchange market.
This common membership across Committees ensures effective governance across all risk, finance, reputational and In addition to the members, Board Risk Committee meetings are also remuneration issues and that agendas are aligned and overlap of attended by relevant executive directors, including representatives from responsibilities is avoided where possible.
Risk Management, Conduct and Regulatory Affairs C&RA, Finance and Internal Audit.
External advice is also sought by the Board Risk Role of the Board Risk Committee Committee, where appropriate.
A standing invite has been issued to the The Board Risk Committees primary responsibilities are set out in its lead partner of the External Auditor to attend all meetings from January terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Committee and 2015 onwards.
These are available on the banks website: www.
During 2014, in conjunction with members of the Group Audit Committee, members of the Board Risk Committee took part in an annual programme Allocation of Board Risk Committee agenda time of visits to businesses and control functions in order to gain a deeper understanding of the risks and issues they face.
This value adding programme included visits to Commercial and Private Banking: Corporate and Institutional Banking: Technology Services: and Finance.
In addition, the Committee made two visits to Risk and C&RA: and Internal Audit.
In addition, an in-depth session on risk reporting was undertaken by the Committee in 2014.
Membership The Board Risk Committee comprises at least three independent nonexecutive directors.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, together with their attendance at scheduled meetings, are shown below.
Attended scheduled Baroness Noakes Chairman 1 9 9 Morten Friis 2 6 6 Robert Gillespie 3 5 6 Penny Hughes 3 6 6 Performance Evaluation Brendan Nelson 9 9 The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior Committees, including the Board Risk Committee, was conducted Former members internally in 2014.
The Committee has considered and discussed the Sandy Crombie 4 3 3 outcomes of this evaluation and accepts the findings.
Overall the review Tony Di Iorio 5 3 3 concluded that the Board Risk Committee continued to operate Philip Scott 6 8 8 effectively.
The composition of the Committee was considered to be wellNotes: balanced, with the skills and perspectives required to respond to the 1 Became Chairman of the Committee with effect from 1 April 2014.
2 Became a member of the Committee with effect from 10 April 2014. challenges faced.
The quality of debate at Committee meetings was also 3 Became a member of the Committee with effect from 1 April 2014. noted to be of a high standard.
Some areas where further enhancements 4 Stepped down from the Committee on 31 March 2014.
5 Stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2014. to Committee performance could be made were identified, these 6 Stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2014. included: the development of a specific technical training programme to complement the members knowledge: review of the thresholds for reporting and escalation of issues to ensure Committee focuses on the key issues: and continued improvements to reporting to the Committee so that there are more focussed and higher quality papers which clearly articulate the key issues for debate.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board.
The conclusions and the recommendations to help improve the Committees effectiveness will be taken forward and progress will be tracked during 2015.
64 Report of the Board Risk Committee Risk strategy and policy Risk profile In February 2014, RBS announced its refreshed strategic direction to Reporting become a smaller UK centric bank with a focus on placing customers at A key priority for the Committee in 2014 was the need to improve and the fore.
A transformation programme was established to implement the streamline the quality of risk reporting.
Following a focus session on Risk required changes, with both short term and longer term objectives.
Reporting, good progress has been made in this respect and a revised During 2014, the Board Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, format risk report, including a top risks section, was launched in dedicated significant time to regularly reviewing the execution risks and October.
Risk reporting is now more strategic and forward looking and issues arising from the implementation of such fundamental change current and future risk positions are reported relative to risk appetite and across the organisation.
The Committee has received regular progress limits.
updates from the project team.
Risk Management has been fully involved in the transformation programme and has provided an Throughout 2014 the Committee received reports on key risk issues and independent opinion to the Committee at each meeting on the risks in risk metrics at each meeting and the Chief Risk Officer provided a verbal the programme.
In addition, the Committee receives independent update on the key risks to RBS.
The Chief Conduct and Regulatory opinions from HR and Internal Audit.
On a rolling basis, the Committee Affairs Officer also provided a verbal update on current matters pertinent has held focus sessions on the key workstreams under the programme to the Committee at each meeting.
This has been a useful means of which are aligned to the priority areas of Reshaping the Bank, Cost, ensuring the Committee receives the latest information on current and Customer, Control & IT execution.
In 2014, the Committee received emerging risk and conduct matters.
Reports are made to the Committee reports on the customer workstream, the control transformation at each meeting on the most recent discussions at the Executive Risk programme and technology.
The Committee also commissioned a Forum the management-level risk committee which reports to the detailed review of the people risks facing the organisation.
2015-17 plans were presented to the Board in December 2014 and the Committee will continue to rigorously monitor the risks and issues arising Conduct and Remediation as plans progress.
The Committee carefully considered various conduct issues and remediation programmes in 2014.
A primary concern was the The Committee also considered the risks in specific strategic objectives investigation of misconduct within the foreign exchange trading of the bank, in particular it: business.
The Committee received regular reports as the investigation evolved and was kept abreast of interactions with regulators.
In reviewed the progress on the strategic initiative to dispose of the November 2014, RBS reached a settlement with the FCA and the US Williams & Glyn business.
It considered the technical complexities Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC in relation to failings in inherent in the programme: risks associated with the disposal: the foreign exchange business.
RBS fully cooperated with the regulatory regulatory requirements: scope: viability: and threats to delivery.
investigations and accepted the findings.
The Committee has exercised Risk is engaged in the programme and has provided the Committee close oversight of the internal investigation into the conduct of current with opinion on key risks and execution.
The Committee will and former employees who had involvement in the foreign exchange continue to oversee delivery throughout 2015, being particularly area.
RBS has announced action taken to date and will provide a further mindful of the challenging timescales: update when the accountability review is complete, which is expected to be in the first quarter.
RBS remains in discussion with other considered the potential impacts on RBSs mortgage book in the governmental and regulatory authorities on these issues, including the event of a sharp fall in property prices in the short to medium term, US Department of Justice, and the Committee will continue to give this should concerns over rising London house prices crystallise: appropriate focus in 2015. received regular reports on the threats to RBS and its customers The allegations of misconduct within RBSs Restructuring business, businesses posed by economic or political events across a number which were set out in the Tomlinson Report, were also given detailed of countries including Thailand, Russia and Ukraine: and consideration at the Committee.
In response to the report, RBS commissioned Clifford Chance to undertake an independent review into reviewed the RBS Resolution Plan and recommended it to the the most serious allegations.
The Committee played a key role in Board for approval prior to submission to the PRA.
monitoring developments and overseeing the publication of the report, in April 2014.
It welcomed the finding that there was no evidence of the The Committee considered operation of RBSs Policy Framework and serious and damaging allegation that RBS had set out to deliberately considered managements plans to improve the accessibility, clarity and defraud its business customers.
The Committee will continue to monitor ease of implementation of RBSs policies.
the separate, external investigation into Restructuring, which was commissioned by the FCA under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act.
The results of this are anticipated during the first part of 2015, and will be reviewed in detail by the Committee.
65 Report of the Board Risk Committee initial reports on trade and transaction reporting compliance and Following the IT incident in June 2012, a significant amount of work has collateral management issues within the Corporate and Institutional been undertaken to strengthen the resilience of RBSs technology Banking business.
The Committee will receive more detailed systems and this continued to be an area of focus for the Committee in reports on required action and remediation in early 2015: 2014.
It received quarterly reports on the work being undertaken to enhance resilience and to address the findings of the section 166 the status of key litigation cases, in particular the US residential regulatory review.
Reports have included independent assurance from mortgage-backed securities litigation claims: and PwC that the work undertaken by the business has been appropriate, sustainable and addresses the key areas requiring remediation.
In order the remediation of known regulatory issues in the RBS Americas to further inform the Committees considerations around technology region.
resilience a deep dive session was held for all Board members in May 2014.
As well as considering the immediate concerns around improving Capital Management resilience, this session also offered an opportunity to review longer term The Committee reviewed the capital and liquidity position of the bank priorities for the function.
The Committee is satisfied with the progress of regularly.
It reviewed and recommended that the Board approve the the IT resilience remediation programme and it is anticipated that the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA and the Internal work will be complete in early 2015.
At this point the Committee will Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
An assurance opinion determine appropriate methods of future oversight of the risks was provided by Internal Audit on the adequacy of the processes associated with IT resilience.
supporting the preparation of the submissions.
A key part of ensuring the correct behaviours are instilled across RBS is In response to increased regulatory expectations, the Committee has articulating and embedding an appropriate risk culture within RBS that is dedicated considerable effort in 2014 to the oversight of stress testing.
It set and cascaded from the top.
This needs to be clearly aligned to the has been actively engaged in discussions on underlying assumptions RBSs existing culture programme.
The Risk and Conduct & Regulatory and scenario selection for the European Banking Authority and Bank of Affairs functions have started the process of researching and developing England UK Variant stress-test exercises and recommended the stress an appropriate risk culture programme for RBS, and have kept the test results submissions to the Board.
The Committee reviewed the Committee appraised of progress.
Lessons have been gained from output of stress testing exercises and has been involved in consideration liaison with peers and benchmarking.
The Committee will review of their announcement to the market.
The Committee also made managements plan to embed risk culture across RBS and the proposed appropriate recommendations to the Board on reverse stress testing measures to assess and validate its effectiveness during 2015.
topic is of keen regulatory interest will remain a priority for the Committee in 2015 and beyond.
Focus on stress testing and reliance upon the outputs is set to increase in 2015 and beyond.
It is therefore essential that the business is In 2014, the Committee also received reports on other conduct and resourced to meet expectations and that individuals possess the correct regulatory issues, including: skills and are supported by the correct processes and tools.
The Committee will carefully review stress testing capability enhancement quarterly updates from the oversight committee established to plans to ensure that these are fit for purpose and meet regulatory monitor the status of current open investigations in the former expectations for 2015.
This work has been complemented by that of the Markets Controls Remediation Programme MCRP which has Market, Credit and Operational Risk been monitored by the Group Audit Committee.
In 2015, MCRP will The Committee conducted its regular review of the market risks be succeeded by the Markets Standards Programme.
The Markets managed by RBS.
The appetite for market risk and related limits were Standards Programme will be similar in scale to MCRP, with a also reviewed in the context of the reduction in the size of the Corporate greater focus on conduct and culture in addition to controls.
It will and Institutional Banking business, in line with the banks strategy.
The incorporate remediation of the foreign exchange trading issues: Committee reviewed key market risk issues and hot topics including remediation and compliance with CRD IV requirements.
Plans to RBSs progress in improving its end to end customer complaints enhance the management of exposures across Credit and Market Risk management process, in particular its strategic aims to reduce were considered.
complaint volumes and to resolve issues at the first point of contact or within forty eight hours of receipt.
The Committee will receive A detailed overview of the Credit Risk portfolio was also provided to the further updates on progress next year: Committee, including a report on activities to address current and emerging risks, and an update on the credit risk appetite frameworks.
reports on Anti-Money Laundering remediation at each of its Steps taken to fide-risk certain portfolios, including commercial real meetings in the first half of 2014, ahead of the regulatory attestation estate, and to improve overall asset quality were considered.
Reporting has now returned to exception based reporting pending further regulatory review: 66 Report of the Board Risk Committee Working closely with the Group Audit Committee, the Committee The Committee received bi-annual reports on cyber threats and reviewed the updated three lines of defence design principles across responses, covering the threat landscape together with key issues and front line management, risk and internal audit.
In the second half of progress on the banks improvements plans in this area.
The bank is re- 2014, implementation has been focussed on publication and baselining its appetite and approach to cyber risk and is moving to a dissemination of the principles, and application in both organisational model of strong detection and response in addition to mitigation.
The structures and individual role profiles.
During 2015, the focus will be on banking sector will continue to be a prime target for attackers and the driving these principles deeper into the organisation, supported by the Committee will keep cyber risk under close review during 2015. planned activity on risk culture outlined above.
Effective operation of the three lines of defence model is critical to the success of the banks The Committee reviewed RBSs 2014 Annual Risk and Control Report transformation and the Committee will carefully consider plans in early and was satisfied that RBS had operated its risk management next year and monitor delivery against agreed objectives.
framework in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
An effective first line of defence with a clear understanding and ownership, is fundamental to the success of the Operational Risk Risk appetite, framework and limits Management Framework ORMF.
The way in which RBS currently The Board Risk Committee reviewed the risk appetite framework of RBS manages Operational Risk is inconsistent across the bank and a during 2014, particularly in light of internal restructuring, market programme of work has been established to address identified positioning and changes to regulations.
This included a review of capital weaknesses in capabilities.
During 2014, RBS Risk has defined an adequacy, earnings volatility and stakeholder confidence.
This review is enterprise wide approach to risk management covering all risk being finalised and a formal risk appetite which reflects the new disciplines and has aligned its end state vision of what a good ORMF organisational structure will be approved in the first quarter of 2015. should look like to this approach.
The Board Risk Committee has This review will also focus on how the detailed risk appetite processes received reports on progress and will consider detailed plans in the first within the individual businesses fit within the enterprise wide appetite set quarter of 2015. by the Board.
Thereafter, the Committee will monitor progress as the programme is Risk and C&RA operating model delivered over the following two years.
During the course of two separate visits, the Board Risk Committee The Committee also received reports on: reviewed the Risk Management and C&RA operating model to ensure that both functions had the appropriate structures and resources in place RBSs long dated derivatives business and noted the risk and to deliver their strategic plans.
The bench-strength of the functions was control framework including limits and collateral requirements reviewed and consideration was given to succession planning, resource which supported it: and budget.
The Committee considered in detail the impact of RBSs transformation the New Product Risk Assessment process including programme on the holistic risk management operating model.
This enhancements made to the end to end product life cycle: included: resourcing levels and quality: changes to risk managements technology support infrastructure: the impact on RBSs overall control the status of RBSs compliance with the Single European Payments environment: and alignment with other major change and investment Area SEPA Directive: programmes.
regular reports on improvements in information security, corporate Last year, the Committee reviewed the operation of the Divisional Risk security, records management and cyber risk: and Audit Committees.
In response to management feedback, consideration was given to alternative mechanisms that could more enhancements to data quality across the organisation.
The opinion effectively provide a line of sight into business risk and audit issues.
In of Internal Audit was considered in this respect also.
Further status early 2014, the Committee agreed that standardised Business Risk updates will be provided during 2015.
Committees, chaired by business Chief Executives, should be responsible for the consideration of all risk issues and escalation to the In December 2014, the Committee supervised the responses provided business ExCo and ERF.
These Committees also consider finance and by RBS to the PRA and FCA as part of their Dear Chairman II Exercise audit issues on a quarterly basis and provide reports to the Board Risk on IT resilience.
In particular, it reviewed the detailed responses to the Committee and Group Audit Committee.
While the Committees are in FCA questionnaires, and for the more technical PRA questionnaires, the their infancy, it is anticipated that these changes will improve the risk Committee reviewed the processes used to prepare the responses.
In governance at a business level and facilitate the escalation of issues as each case the Committee received assurance reports from Risk and appropriate.
A review of effectiveness will be undertaken in 2015. from Internal Audit and on this basis recommended to the Board that it approve the submissions to the regulators.
67 Report of the Board Risk Committee Risk architecture Accountability and Remuneration The Board Risk Committee considered model risk management across The Board Risk Committee recognises clear link between conduct, the organisation and this will remain a key area of focus of the culture and performance management.
As part of its work the Committee Committee into 2015 and beyond.
has continued to work closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee to consider the risk aspects of Executive The Committee reviewed the preparations underway to ensure Committee members objectives, performance and remuneration compliance with the new Basel Principles on Effective Risk Data arrangements.
The committee makes recommendations as appropriate Aggregation and Reporting, which were due to come into effect from to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
Detailed plans will be reviewed and the Committee will receive reports on delivery through 2015.
The Committee also considered the risk performance of businesses in light of known risk and control issues and under advice from Risk, C&RA and internal audit functions.
It has also reviewed specific accountability cases and made recommendations regarding appropriate adjustments to performance related reward to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
The Group Performance and Remuneration Committees report on pages 73 to 93 includes more detail on how risk is taken into account in remuneration decisions.
Baroness Noakes Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 25 February 2015 68 Report of the RBS Capital Resolution RCR Board Oversight Committee Letter from Baroness Noakes, Chairman of the RCR Board Oversight Committee Membership and meetings The Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
The Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of RBS and the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee are members.
Attendance at meetings is shown below.
Attended scheduled Baroness Noakes Chairman 1 3 3 Sandy Crombie 3 4 Philip Hampton 4 4 Brendan Nelson 3 4 Former member Philip Scott 2 1 1 Dear Shareholder, Notes: 1 Baroness Noakes took over from Philip Scott as Chairman of the Committee on 1 April 2014.
The Committee held four scheduled meetings and two ad hoc meetings in 2014.
Meetings The RBS Capital Resolution Board Oversight Committee was established are attended by relevant executives, and representatives from the risk, finance and human following the creation of RBS Capital Resolution RCR on 1 January resources functions.
2 Stepped down from the Committee on 1 April 2014.
Principal activities during 2014 RCR was established to separate and wind down RBSs high capital As a newly established Board Committee, the focus at the first meeting intensive assets.
Targets were set to remove 55-75% of these was reviewing the Committees terms of reference and schedule of assets from the balance sheet by the end of 2015 and 85% by the end of business for the year.
The Committee also reviewed the governance 2016. structure and delegated authorities for RCR.
The format of reporting on progress against the primary objective and asset management principles, Key principles are: and the pro-forma for financial reporting were also considered.
removing risk from the balance sheet in an efficient, expedient and economic manner: At each scheduled meeting during the remainder of the year, the Committee has considered financial performance and delivery against reducing the volatile outcomes in stressed environments: and targets and asset management principles, and received updates on accelerating the release of capital through management and exit of emerging issues and material transactions.
The outlook in relation to the portfolio.
capital release and the residual asset pool is also reviewed.
Given the importance of delivery of the RCR objectives for RBS's future Risk reporting developed and evolved through the year and the plans, the Committees role is an important one.
I was appointed Committee now receives information on a quarterly basis on operational, Chairman of the Committee on 1 April 2014 and am pleased to present conduct and people risk.
the report on the Committees activity during 2014.
The Committee recognised that the objective of accelerating disposal of The role and responsibilities of the RCR Board Oversight Committee assets carried additional customer and conduct risks.
It paid particular The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference attention to the leadership and culture within RCR and reviewed the RCR which are reviewed annually by the Committee and approved by the framework and operating principles to satisfy itself that management Board.
These are available on rbs.
were managing these risks appropriately.
The Committees role is to: The Committee also reviewed and considered certain remuneration oversee the actions of RCRs management, including matters for RCR and, in conjunction with the Group Performance and implementation of RCRs strategy: Remuneration Committee, has approved RCR remuneration principles, and RCR related annual objectives for the CEO of Capital Resolution review and report to the Board on RCRs progress against and Group.
compliance with the primary objective to eliminate the banks exposure to RCR assets and the asset management principles Committee meetings are attended by senior RCR managers and also criteria for taking decisions on the reduction of capital and assets : representatives from the control functions, in particular from the risk agree in consultation with the Group Performance and function.
Remuneration Committee specific incentives for RCR management, aligned to the objectives of RCR: As explained on page 154, RCR now expects substantially to complete its work by the end of 2015.
The Committee will continue to oversee the consider financial disclosures in respect of RCR: and activities of RCR throughout this period.
report to the Board on the Committees activities and recommend changes to RCR strategy.
69 Report of the RBS Capital Resolution RCR Board Oversight Committee Performance evaluation Overall, the review concluded that the Committee operated effectively An internal review of the effectiveness of the Board and senior and exercised appropriate oversight and challenge of management.
The Committee has considered and discussed the report on the outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluation has been conducted.
Baroness Noakes, Chairman of the RCR Board Oversight Committee 25 February 2015 70 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Letter from Penny Hughes Oversight of the development of Environmental, Social and Ethical Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee ESE policies designed to ensure responsible and sustainable management of risks in sensitive and controversial lending sectors.
ESE polices have now been developed for Defence, Forestry, Fisheries & Agribusiness, Mining & Metals, Oil & Gas, Gambling, Power Generation and Animal Testing.
As a result of these policy decisions, the Committee has played an instrumental role in not providing finance to a number of controversial areas of industry.
Oversight of progress on people issues including safety and health, wellbeing, diversity and inclusion and employee engagement.
Considering sustainability positioning on environmental targets, climate change, human rights and sustainable energy opportunities.
Dear Shareholder, Transparent reporting through the annual Sustainability Review RBS has a clear ambition to be number one for customer service, trust which describes our performance and approach to making RBS a and advocacy in each of our chosen business areas by 2020.
Delivery more sustainable business, one which will support the long-term of this ambition depends in large part on our ability to demonstrate future of the economy and society.
beyond question that we are a responsible company doing business in a Also during 2014, the opportunity was taken to refocus the strategic sustainable way.
direction of the Committee to ensure greater alignment with the customer ambition of the bank.
Our work will concentrate on three core themes: Our strategy is clear our success as a company is dependent on the Bank-wide Reputation and Trust, Serving Customers and success and fortune of our customers and the communities we live and Sustainability Emerging issues.
More detail on these themes is provided work in.
When they succeed, so do we.
Previously known as the Group Sustainability We know that RBS exists in a sector that faces huge challenges and Committee, we felt the new name of Sustainable Banking Committee needs to change, and were committed to play a leadership role.
Im better reflected our purpose and underlined the importance of sustainable encouraged that weve changed our business practices this year on a banking being a core part of our strategy.
range of issues to make banking fairer for our customers and our Although there is still much to be done to rebuild trust, it is pleasing that communities.
the efforts to build a responsible and sustainable business are being recognised through independent and external measures.
These include Inside the bank we are on a long journey to create a culture that stands having recently been ranked as the top scoring UK company in apart from the misconduct of the past.
We have strong, clear values that Transparency Internationals latest report on transparency in corporate guide our decision making, but these are yet to be truly ingrained in our reporting.
We have also successfully retained our place in the Dow Jones approach to running the bank.
World Sustainability Index and scored well in the Carbon Disclosure The Sustainable Banking Committee is primarily concerned with Project disclosure results which assess management of climate risks and overseeing how well management is running the bank sustainably for its opportunities.
RBS has also been reselected for inclusion in the stakeholders and dealing with matters of reputation and trust, including FTSE4Good index which measures the performance of companies cultural change.
In fulfilling this responsibility, we try to consider the long against globally recognised responsibility criteria.
Turning to people term interests of all stakeholder groups which include customers, commitments, progress on diversity and inclusion has also been employees, shareholders, government, regulators, society and advocacy recognised with various gender, race and equality awards.
information on these and our sustainability performance and external commitments can be found on pages 38 to 41.
Although we still have a long way to go, some good progress was made in 2014 and the key areas of work during the year included: With an increasing focus on ethics and sustainability, the priority of the Committee will be to assess and encourage the work of the executive Oversight of the values and conduct work intended to address team in building a bank that puts customers interests first and embeds behavioural and cultural issues.
sustainable banking into everything that we do.
I took over as Chairman of the Committee after the 2014 AGM having served as a member since Assessing performance on delivery of customer commitments on 2013.
My thanks go to the Committee members and attendees for their trust, advocacy and service including simple, transparent and fair support and, in particular my predecessor Sandy Crombie for his banking.
commitment in steering the work of the Committee.
There are significant challenges ahead, but I am confident that we will continue to build on the Ongoing commitment to stakeholder engagement through face to work that has already been done to embed sustainability into the strategic face sessions with advocacy groups on key issues of concern more priorities of RBS.
Penny Hughes Oversight of progress on sustainability activities across RBS Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee including serving society, serving customers and supporting 25 February 2015 communities.
71 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Performance evaluation Meetings An internal review of the effectiveness of the Sustainable Banking The Sustainable Banking Committee held six scheduled Committee Committee took place in 2014 and overall the review concluded that the meetings in 2014 in addition to six stakeholder engagements sessions.
Committee continued to operate effectively.
In particular, the stakeholder Both were attended by senior representatives from the customer-facing engagement sessions were regarded as a valuable opportunity to learn divisions as well as Human Resources, Sustainability, Risk, Conduct and how well RBS is aligned to external sustainability priorities and these will Regulatory Affairs, Communications and Marketing, Strategy and continue in 2015.
Another key focus will be to embed the changes made Corporate Services.
The Chairman of the Board regularly attends the in 2014 to the strategic direction of the Committee.
meetings as well as internal and external specialists who are invited to Role and responsibilities of the Sustainable Banking Committee join for specific items.
The Sustainable Banking Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging how management is addressing sustainable banking and Stakeholder engagement sessions reputation issues, considering the long term interests of all stakeholder In addition to ongoing engagement which takes place across our groups.
business each day, the Sustainable Banking Committee runs a proactive engagement programme to which we invite external stakeholders to meet Authority is delegated to the Sustainable Banking Committee by the with, and challenge, the most senior decision makers in RBS.
These Board and the Committee reports and makes recommendations to the discussions help shape future policies, influence strategic priorities and Board as required.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available inform decision making across RBS and will continue to play a key role.
com and these are reviewed annually and To date we have met with over 40 different groups of NGOs, civil society approved by the Board.
A report on the activities of the Committee in groups, government bodies, consumer groups and investors in this way.
fulfilling its responsibilities is provided to the Board following each In particular, in 2014 we held six such stakeholder engagement sessions meeting.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are shown covering the following topics: below grouped under its three core themes of work: Bank-wide Reputation and Trust: Serving Customers: and Sustainability Emerging Fair Banking with particular emphasis on how well RBS serves low Issues.
income customers Bank-wide Reputation and Trust led by the Chief Executive Privacy and the need to balance security against the employee right Oversight of: to privacy Management of reputation and delivery of commitments on trust, Climate Change including the latest science on the predicted advocacy and customer service physical and humanitarian impacts Reputational challenges relating to people agenda including Supporting Enterprise and in particular how well RBS supports embedding of values and cultural change activity international trade Development of brand strategy in line with, RBSs purpose, vision Sustainability priorities of the investment community and values Employee Engagement with focus on people strategy, employee Sustainable growth of business and measures taken to support sentiment and balanced leadership economic development and how banks can better serve society Community programmes and employee engagement in charitable In addition, the programme of UK-based events aimed at individual partnerships shareholders continued in 2014 and provided an opportunity for shareholders to meet directors and senior management to learn more Serving Customers led by business leaders about the business.
Provide challenge on how well RBS is integrating sustainable banking into its business strategy and what is being done to foster a Membership sustainable business for customers The Sustainable Banking Committee comprises three independent nonReceive reports on key reputational risks relating to customer executive directors.
During the year, new member Robert Gillespie joined priorities and performance against customer commitments existing member Alison Davis, and Penny Hughes took over from Sandy Consider product sustainability, transparency and fairness Crombie as Chairman after the AGM.
The Chairman and members of the Receive reports on how RBS is supporting SMEs and oversee the Committee, together with their attendance at meetings, are shown below.
approach to responsible lending and financial inclusion Attended Sustainability Emerging Issues led by the Chief Sustainability scheduled Officer Penny Hughes Chairman 1 5 6 Oversight of Environmental, Social and Ethical risk policies Alison Davis 6 6 Engage with key internal and external stakeholder groups on Robert Gillespie 2 5 5 emerging sustainability issues Approve the annual Sustainability Report and receive the external Former member auditors assurance report Sandy Crombie 3 3 3 Oversee priorities, targets and reputational challenges on key Notes: emerging sustainable banking issues and consider best practice 1 Appointed Chairman of the Committee on 25 June 2014.
2 Appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 April 2014. benchmarking 3 Stepped down from the Committee on 25 June 2014.
72 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from Sandy Crombie One of the main changes during 2014 is that RBS is now operating in a Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee framework that limits variable pay to no more than the level of fixed pay.
This change is in line with the views of our majority shareholder, UK Financial Investments UKFI.
Often referred to as the bonus cap, this limit applies to all employees who are considered to be Material Risk Takers MRTs under regulatory requirements, a population that has increased significantly in line with enhanced criteria from the European Banking Authority EBA.
For the majority of these employees, no changes have been required to their remuneration arrangements.
Role-based allowances have been introduced as an additional element of fixed pay for some MRTs in line with market practice.
Allowances for members of the Executive Committee are delivered entirely in shares and Dear Shareholder, are subject to a retention period.
Increases in fixed pay have been balanced by longer vesting periods for long term incentives and an I became Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration overall reduction in the maximum compensation available.
Committee with effect from the 2014 AGM having served as a member since 2009.
I would like to thank my predecessor, Penny Hughes, for her In accordance with Prudential Regulation Authority PRA requirements, leadership of the Committee over the past four years.
we have updated our clawback policy.
Any variable pay awarded to MRTs from 1 January 2015 will be subject to clawback for seven years The Committee must balance the views of our stakeholders with our duty from the date of award.
Clawback is the recovery of awards that have to reward our people fairly, and our responsibility to ensure that we are vested and been paid to employees.
Malus allows the Committee to running a commercial business with the best available talent.
We will do reduce awards if appropriate to zero prior to payment taking place.
RBS our utmost to make balanced decisions and to explain our approach to has operated malus for a number of years.
The new clawback our many stakeholders.
requirements, together with malus, provide greater scope for the Committee to recover remuneration where new information indicates we I believe we are making genuine progress.
RBS has been at the leading should change the pay decisions made in previous years and it is no edge of reform in bringing down how much we pay and changing the longer appropriate to make payments at the level originally awarded.
structure of how pay is delivered.
Over the last five years bonus pools have fallen by around two thirds across RBS and by nearly 90% within Malus has been applied as part of our accountability review process in the investment bank.
Last year we introduced a simplified pay structure light of the fines imposed on RBS by regulators relating to misconduct in for our executive directors with annual bonuses being discontinued.
This foreign exchange trading FX and the IT incident that occurred in 2012. means that their variable pay will be delivered entirely in long-term The Committee fully appreciates the impact such events have on incentive awards, aligning executive directors pay more than ever to shareholders and customers.
It is only right that this should be reflected shareholder value over the long term.
in remuneration outcomes for those whose conduct fell short of our standards.
Our current Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2014 AGM with over 99% of shareholders voting in favour.
No changes are In addition to direct action against specific employees under the being made to the policy at this time.
This letter and the accompanying accountability review process, significant deductions to bonus pools have report aim to demonstrate the context in which decisions have been been made for material conduct events.
This includes deductions for made, the decisions reached for the 2014 performance year and how the LIBOR, the IT incident and for the FX events.
The Committee believes Committee intends to approach the year ahead.
this process strikes an appropriate balance with a significant adjustment being made to bonus pools as a targeted measure to change behaviour, Context for our decisions while not disproportionately penalising employees who are not Last year we set out a new strategy that stated our ambition to become responsible for these events.
the best bank in the UK for customer service, trust and advocacy by 2020.
A remuneration policy that supports our business strategy is an It has taken much longer than anyone anticipated to turn the corner on essential part of rebuilding a successful and trusted RBS.
We made good past problems, practices and related fines but a significant amount of progress in 2014.
Total pay costs and pay per employee have been remedial action has already been undertaken.
A clear message has been reduced, while we have been establishing a platform to deliver good sent to employees that there is no place for any misconduct at RBS and customer outcomes and sustainable returns to shareholders.
There is a wrongdoers will be dealt with.
There is a determination to develop and clear need for management to keep the franchise intact while moving the maintain a culture that reflects our commitment to the customer and business towards a more normal and stable position.
The Committees ethical market practices.
decisions aim to support this process.
73 Directors Remuneration Report Performance considerations for 2014 The bonus pool represents 6% of operating profit excluding CFG 2014 has been a year of achievement against a difficult agenda.
We are and before variable compensation expense, conduct, litigation and delivering on our plan to make RBS a smaller, safer bank.
Citizens restructuring charges and other one-off items.
Financial Group, Inc. CFG was successfully launched on the New York stock exchange in the biggest bank flotation in US history.
Once the Where employees do receive a bonus, the average amounts remain remaining stake in the CFG business is sold this will further strengthen relatively modest with 51% of employees receiving 2,000 or less our capital position.
RBS Capital Resolution RCR has managed to and a further 22% receiving less than 5,000. accelerate the planned removal of assets from our balance sheet contributing c. 110 basis points to the improvement in the CET1 ratio.
Bonus awards above 2,000 are subject to deferral requirements and the Committee approved a 2014 deferral structure for higher Our financial results show that, underneath the conduct issues, litigation earners and MRTs that exceeds current regulatory requirements.
and restructuring charges, there are strong customer franchises that are geared towards delivering sustainable returns for investors.
The signs of These decisions aim to strike a difficult balance where pay is restrained in improvement are there in customer feedback, our capital strength and a market context but remains at sufficient levels to reward those reduced costs.
All of these factors have been considered by the employees who are building the future franchise.
The intention is to Committee in seeking to make objective decisions.
Some key messages demonstrate that good performance and a continuous focus on the right for 2014 are as follows: behaviours will be rewarded, while reflecting the impact on all stakeholders of conduct events in the reduction of specific bonus pools.
Operating profit is up significantly to 3.5 billion from a 7.5 billion loss in 2013 Pay decisions for executive directors Attributable loss to ordinary and B shareholders of 3.5 billion which No changes to remuneration policy.
includes the loss provision of 4 billion associated with the decision Salary, pension and benefit funding unchanged in 2015. to divest CFG Cost reduction of 1.1 billion, excluding the effect of currency Performance measures for long-term incentive awards to be granted movements, which has exceeded the target in 2015 follow the criteria that applied to awards made in 2014 but Staff compensation has reduced year on year at both the total and incorporating Trust in the Customers & People measure.
per employee levels Reflecting a desire from shareholders for longer timescales, the CET1 ratio has improved over the year from 8.6% to 11.2% overall vesting period for future long-term incentive awards has been RCR run off - assets have been reduced by 14 billion and RWA extended from three to five years.
equivalents have reduced by 38 billion RBS Total Shareholder Return TSR performance in 2014 has been Considerations for the year ahead ahead of other UK banks and the FTSE100 index The report sets out how pay arrangements will be implemented in the In 2014, we have seen some positive Net Promoter Score year ahead including the performance targets that will apply to the longmovements in some of our franchises and there are early signs that term incentive awards granted in 2015.
An overview of our remuneration customer trust in RBS is stabilising and starting to improve policy below Board level can be found in the Other Remuneration Disclosures section that follows this report.
Pay decisions for our wider workforce The pressures on people working at RBS are considerable.
We need to The regulatory environment continues to evolve.
Further guidance is recognise good results by those employees who serve our customers expected during 2015 from the EBA on the use of allowances as well as well and deliver excellent individual performance.
Having engaged the outcome of the PRAs consultation on extending deferral periods.
The employees and improving RBS as a place to work is critical if we are to Committee also intends to undertake a review of the broader aspects of achieve our long-term ambitions.
employee remuneration at RBS during the course of the year.
The Committee has an important role in helping to create a compelling I would like to conclude by thanking my fellow Committee members and employee proposition.
During 2014, RBS became a fully accredited those who support the Committee for their guidance and commitment Living Wage employer.
RBS has been an accredited Living Wage over the year.
I have no doubt we will be responding in 2015 to further employer in London since 2010 and we are pleased to be extending that developments in remuneration principles and practices.
Shareholders commitment to our operations and suppliers in the rest of the UK.
Some continue to have a vital role in developing responsible pay practices and I other key decisions are set out below: look forward to working closely with all our stakeholders in the year ahead.
The average annual salary increase amongst our core population of employees in 2015 will be 2%, up from 2014, whereas it will be less than 1% across the most senior RBS employees.
Sandy Crombie Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee The bonus pool has fallen from a total of 576 million last year 536 25 February 2015 million excluding CFG to 421 million excluding CFG in 2014, a reduction of 21% excluding CFG or a 27% overall reduction.
Over 90% of this pool will be directed to those below the most senior RBS employees.
The Corporate & Institutional Banking CIB bonus pool is 53% lower than 2013.
74 Directors Remuneration Report Executive director outcomes for 2014 and implementation in 2015 Linking remuneration to the business strategy Remuneration in 2014 000s Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson 1 Salary 1,000 497 Benefits 2 143 16 Pension allowance 350 174 Fixed share allowance 497 Bonus Long-term Incentive Plan vesting 3 358 Other award 4 1,911 Total 1,851 3,095 Notes: 1 Joined on 19 May 2014.
2 Amount for Ross McEwan includes standard benefit funding and relocation benefits.
3 Amount relates to a share award made to replace awards forfeited on leaving Commonwealth Bank of Australia, which was granted subject to RBS performance conditions.
4 Amount relates to a share award made to replace awards forfeited on leaving Credit Suisse.
Implementation of policy for 2015 Details of remuneration arrangements for 2015 are set out in the implementation of policy section on page 82.
Full details of the LTI performance conditions are set out on page 83.
Variable pay will consist of a long-term incentive award LTI with performance conditions that are designed to be stretching and support delivery of the business strategy.
LTI performance conditions will be assessed over three years with any vesting taking place in equal tranches in years four and five.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply for an overall period of seven years from the date of grant.
75 Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy The full Directors Remuneration Policy, as approved by shareholders at the AGM on 25 June 2014, is available at rbs.
tm complianceandrem and no changes are proposed that would require shareholder approval.
An extract of the policy with certain updates to ensure it is relevant for the current year is set out below for ease of reference.
In the event of any conflict, the approved policy on rbs.
com takes precedence over the information set out in this section.
Fixed pay elements for executive directors EDs Fixed pay elements are intended to provide a level of competitive remuneration for performing the role with less reliance on variable pay in order to discourage excessive risk-taking and with partial delivery in shares to align with long-term shareholder value.
Purpose and link Performance metrics Element of pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and period Base salary To aid recruitment and Paid monthly and reviewed annually.
n a retention of high performing individuals whilst paying no The rates for 2015 are as follows: Any future salary increases will more than is necessary.
To Chief Executive - 1,000,000 be considered against peer provide a competitive level of Chief Financial Officer - 800,000 companies and will not normally fixed cash remuneration, be greater than the average reflecting the skills and Further details on remuneration salary increase for RBS experience required, and to arrangements for the year ahead are set employees over the period of discourage excessive riskout in the annual report on the policy.
Fixed share To provide fixed pay that A fixed allowance, paid entirely in An award of shares with an n a allowance reflects the skills and shares.
Individuals will receive shares annual value of up to 100% of experience required for the that vest immediately subject to any salary at the time of award.
This will be delivered in deductions required for tax purposes shares which must be and a retention period will apply.
Shares The fixed share allowance is retained for the long term.
will be released from the retention not pensionable.
period in equal tranches over a five year period.
The fixed share allowance will broadly be paid in arrears, currently in two instalments per year.
For 2015, the instalments will be paid in August and 1 December.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible A set level of funding is provided and Set level of funding for benefits n a and market competitive EDs can select from a range of benefits currently 26,250 which is benefits to further aid including: subject to review.
recruitment and retention of Company car key individuals.
Private medical insurance Further benefits such as Life assurance relocation allowances and other Ill health income protection benefits e. g. tax advice, housing and flight allowances Also entitled to use of a car and driver and payment of legal fees may on company business and standard be offered in line with market benefits such as holiday and sick pay.
Further benefits including allowances The value of benefits paid will when relocating from overseas may be be disclosed each year in the provided to secure the most suitable annual report on remuneration.
Pension To encourage planning for Provision of a monthly cash pension Pension allowance of 35% of n a retirement and long-term allowance based on a percentage of salary.
Opportunity to participate in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Note: 1 The company believes that delivery in shares is the most appropriate construct for a fixed allowance to executive directors, qualifying as fixed remuneration for the requirements imposed under CRD IV.
If regulatory requirements emerge that prohibit allowances being delivered in shares, or deem that such allowances will not qualify as fixed remuneration, then the company reserves the right to provide the value of the allowance in cash instead in order to comply with the requirements.
76 Directors Remuneration Policy Variable pay Variable pay is intended to incentivise superior long-term performance and promote the success of RBS, with rewards aligned with shareholders and adjusted for risk, based on the achievement of stretching performance measures.
Purpose and link to Element of pay strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics and period Variable pay To support a culture Any variable pay award made will The maximum level of award Any award made will be subject to award where good performance be delivered in the form of a longis subject to any limit on the performance conditions measured long-term against a full range of term incentive, paid in shares or in ratio of variable to fixed pay over a minimum three year period.
incentive measures will be other instruments if required by as required by regulators.
To incentivise regulators and subject to a This currently limits variable Typical measures may fall under the delivery of stretching combination of time and pay to the level of fixed pay the following categories weighted targets in line with the performance-based vesting i. e. base salary, fixed share 25% each : Strategic Plan.
allowance, benefits and Economic Profit selection of performance pension.
A higher ratio, up to Relative TSR metrics will be closely A minimum three year performance 200% of fixed pay, is possible Safe and Secure Bank aligned with Key period will apply.
The award will with shareholder approval.
Customers and People Performance Indicators.
have an overall five year vest RBS is not seeking any such period, vesting in equal tranches in approval at the 2015 AGM.
An underpin gives the Committee Performance is assessed years four and five.
discretion to reduce vesting against a range of For these purposes awards amounts in light of underlying financial and nonAs a minimum, shares will be will be valued in line with the financial results, or conduct and financial measures to subject to retention periods as EBA rules, including any risk management effectiveness.
encourage superior longrequired under the PRA and available discount for longterm value creation for Financial Conduct Authority FCA term deferral.
These or similar measures and shareholders.
weightings will be applied to reflect In addition to the regulatory the strategy going forward.
Delivery in shares with Provisions for malus adjustment of ratio which currently limits the ability to apply malus unvested awards and clawback of variable pay to the level of Details of the performance adjustments and vested awards.
fixed pay, awards for measures for awards to be granted clawback further executive directors are in 2015 are set out as part of the supports longer-term The long-term incentive award will subject to a maximum of implementation of remuneration 1 alignment with be delivered under the RBS 2014 300% of base salary.
Employee Share Plan, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The vesting level of the award could vary between 0% and 100% dependent on the achievement of performance conditions.
Between 20% - 25% will vest at threshold for each performance measure.
Note: 1 Adjustments will be made to award levels where necessary to ensure that executive directors remain within the variable to fixed limit.
Other pay elements Performance Purpose and link to metrics and Element of pay strategy Operation Maximum potential value period Shareholding To ensure EDs build and A period of five years is allowed in which to build Chief Executive n a requirements continue to hold a significant up shareholdings to meet the required levels.
shareholding to align Chief Financial Officer - interests with shareholders.
Any unvested share awards are excluded in the 125% of salary.
Requirements may be reviewed and increased in future.
77 Directors Remuneration Policy Notes to policy table Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company The Committee sets stretching performance targets taking into The Committee retains oversight of remuneration policy for all employees account the companys business strategy, financial forecasts and to ensure there is a fair and consistent approach throughout the wider non-financial metrics.
The performance conditions for variable organisation.
The broader policy uses deferral, malus and clawback to pay awards made to EDs have been chosen to promote the building promote effective risk management and alignment with shareholders.
of a safer, stronger and more sustainable business.
The Committee Further details of our remuneration policy for all employees are set out on agrees the performance conditions each year after consultation with page 91. major shareholders.
Any salary increases for EDs will not normally be greater than the The Committee recognises the importance of alignment with average increase for RBS employees.
While employees are not directly shareholders through the use of shareholding requirements, a longer consulted on setting directors remuneration, consultation on vesting period for long-term incentive awards and retention periods remuneration generally takes place with our social partners, including representatives from UNITE.
In November 2014, RBS became a fully post vesting.
Upon leaving, any outstanding share awards held by good leavers will vest, normally on the original vesting dates, and accredited Living Wage employer.
RBS has been an accredited Living shares from the fixed share allowance will continue to be released Wage employer in London since 2010 and this commitment has been extended to our operations and suppliers in the rest of the UK.
over the applicable five year retention period in order to ensure former EDs maintain an appropriate interest in RBS shares.
An annual employee opinion survey takes place which includes a number Remuneration for EDs broadly follows the policy for all employees but of questions on pay and culture.
This includes questions on how pay is with a significant element delivered in shares and an appropriate determined and evaluated, including the need to consider both what and proportion delivered through variable performance-related pay.
This how outcomes have been achieved, and whether employees believe is to ensure that total remuneration to EDs is more aligned with the they are paid fairly for the work they do.
long-term interests of shareholders and dependent on specific performance measures being met.
Around 30,000 of our employees are shareholders through our incentive and all-employee share plans and have the ability to express their views Malus and Clawback through voting on the Directors Remuneration Report.
An accountability review process is operated that allows the Committee to respond in instances where new information would change the variable Discretion pay decisions made in previous years and or the decisions to be made in The Committee has certain discretions that allow it, in appropriate the current year.
As a result, malus can be applied to reduce if circumstances, to vary the remuneration provided to EDs and other appropriate to zero the amount of any variable pay awards prior to employees.
For example, under the rules of the RBS 2014 Employee payment taking place.
Clawback provisions can also be applied to require Share Plan, the Committee can: determine that awards should vest even repayment of any amounts already paid.
Malus and clawback can be where this treatment would not apply as standard under the rules: decide applied to current and former employees.
to vest earlier than the normal vesting date: and vary the pro-rating for time elapsed that would normally apply.
Such discretions would only be RBS has applied malus provisions to variable pay awards since 2009 and used in exceptional circumstances to ensure a fair outcome for the added clawback provisions to awards made in 2014 for a period of six relevant individual and for shareholders, taking into account the months from the date of any vesting.
Any variable pay awards granted to circumstances of departure, the performance of the individual and the EDs and other MRTs after 1 January 2015 will be subject to clawback need to ensure an orderly transition.
provisions for a period of seven years from the date of grant, in line with new requirements under the PRA FCA Remuneration Code.
Further discretions include the ability to: treat awards in a range of ways in the event of a change of control: change measures, targets, and adjust There are a number of trigger events under which malus and clawback awards if major events occur for example transaction and capital will be considered including: raisings : and make administrative changes to the plan rules.
the individual participating in or being responsible for conduct which In addition, the Committee retains discretion to apply malus and clawback results in significant losses for RBS: to awards and also to adjust the vesting outcome in relation to certain long-term incentive awards through the application of an underpin.
the individual failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety: reasonable evidence of an individuals misbehaviour or material error: and RBS or the individuals relevant business unit suffering a material failure of risk management.
Further details can be found on page 92.
78 Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors Performance metrics Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and period Fees To provide a competitive level of fixed Fees are paid monthly.
The rates for the year ahead are n a remuneration that reflects the skills, set out in the annual report on experience and time commitment The level of remuneration remuneration on page 82. required for the role.
reflects their responsibility and time commitment and the level Any future increases to fees will be No variable pay is provided so that the of fees paid to directors of considered against directors at Chairman and non-executive directors comparable major UK comparable companies and will not can maintain appropriate companies.
normally be greater than the independence, focus on long-term average inflation rate over the decision making and constructively The Chairman and nonperiod under review, taking into challenge performance of the executive directors do not account that any change in executive directors.
participate in any incentive or responsibilities, role or time performance plan.
Fees are commitment may merit a larger reviewed regularly.
Additional fees may be paid for new Board Committees provided these are not greater than fees payable for the existing Board Committees as detailed in the annual report on remuneration.
Benefits Any benefits offered would be in line Reimbursement of reasonable The value of the private medical n a with market practice.
out-of-pocket expenses incurred cover provided to the Chairman will in performance of duties.
The be in line with market rates and Chairman also receives private disclosed in the annual report on medical cover in line with the remuneration.
Recruitment remuneration policy Recruitment of Ewen Stevenson during 2014 The approach to recruitment of directors is to consider both internal Ewen Stevenson was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer and external candidates and to pay no more than is required to on 19 May 2014.
His annual remuneration arrangements on attract the most suitable candidate for the role.
appointment were as follows: The policy on the recruitment of new directors aims to structure pay Salary 800,000 in line with the framework and quantum applicable to current Fixed share allowance 800,000 directors, taking into account that some variation may be necessary Pension allowance 280,000 to secure the preferred candidate.
Benefit funding 26,250 Total fixed remuneration 1,906,250 Consideration will be given to the skills and experience held by the individual being recruited as well as the incumbents position.
Maximum variable pay long-term incentive award is calculated in line with the ratio limiting variable to fixed remuneration, including the EBA No sign-on awards or payments will be offered over and above the discount for long-term deferral, with the first award due to be made in normal buy-out policy to replace awards forfeited or payments March 2015.
Further details are set out in the implementation of policy foregone.
The Committee will seek to minimise buy-outs wherever section on page 82. possible and will seek to ensure they are no more generous than, and on substantially similar terms to, the original awards or An award over 584,506 shares was made on Ewens appointment to payments they are replacing.
replace awards he forfeited on leaving Credit Suisse.
The award is eligible to vest between March 2015 and March 2017 on terms that are The maximum level of variable pay which may be granted to new no more generous than the terms of the awards they have replaced.
executive directors is the same as that applicable to existing executive directors, excluding any buy-out arrangements.
The Chairman and non-executive directors do not receive variable pay.
79 Directors Remuneration Policy Service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office directors Provision Policy Details Payments for loss Payment in lieu of If either party wishes to terminate an executive directors service contract they are required to give 12 of office notice only months notice to the other party.
The service contracts do not contain any pre-determined provisions for compensation on termination.
The service contracts give RBS the discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice, which is based on salary only with no payment in respect of any other benefits, pension or fixed share allowances and is released in monthly instalments.
During the period when instalments are being paid, the executive director must take all reasonable steps to find alternative work and any remaining instalments will be reduced as appropriate to offset income from any such work.
Treatment of Treatment in line with Existing annual incentive awards under the Deferral Plan will not normally lapse on termination, unless annual and longthe relevant plan rules termination is for Cause as defined in the rules of the Deferral Plan.
The awards will normally continue term incentives on as approved by to vest on the original vesting dates, subject to provisions regarding malus, clawback, competitive activity termination shareholders and detrimental activity as appropriate.
Existing long-term incentive awards normally lapse on leaving unless the termination is for one of a limited number of specified good leaver reasons or the Committee exercises its discretion to prevent lapsing.
The Committee may exercise this discretion where it believes this is an appropriate outcome in light of the contribution of the participant and shareholders interests.
Where awards do not lapse on termination, any vesting will normally take place on the original vesting dates subject to the performance conditions being met and pro-rating to reflect the proportion of the period that has elapsed at the date of termination.
Malus and clawback provisions may also apply in accordance with policy.
Fixed share Treatment in line with Any shares already received under fixed share allowances will not be forfeited on termination but must allowances the plan rules as continue to be held for the original retention periods.
The fixed share allowance will continue to accrue for approved by the period up to cessation of employment.
shareholders Other provisions Standard contractual Contracts include standard clauses covering remuneration arrangements and discretionary incentive terms in line with plans as set out in the main policy table above, reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses market practice incurred in performance of duties, redundancy terms and sickness absence, the performance review process, the disciplinary procedure and terms for dismissal in the event of personal underperformance or breaches of RBS policies.
Other payments Discretionary The Committee retains the discretion to make payments including but not limited to professional and outplacement fees to mitigate against legal claims, subject to any payments being made pursuant to a settlement or release agreement.
Provisions for nonNEDs do not have service contracts or notice periods although they have letters of engagement reflecting executive directors their responsibilities and time commitments.
No compensation would be paid to any NED in the event of NEDs and the termination of appointment.
Chairman Arrangements for the Chairman Philip Hampton is entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu of notice of 12 months fees in the event that his appointment is terminated as a result of the majority shareholder seeking to effect the termination of his appointment, or if RBS terminates his appointment without good reason, or if his re-election is not approved by shareholders at a General Meeting resulting in the termination of his appointment.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the company stand for election or re-election annually by shareholders at the companys Annual General Meetings.
Neither of the current executive directors hold a non-executive director role at another company.
80 Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration Total remuneration paid to directors for 2014 The sections audited by the company's auditors, Deloitte LLP, are as indicated.
Total remuneration for executive directors audited Current directors Former director Ross McEwan 1 Ewen Stevenson 2 Nathan Bostock 3 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Salary 1,000 250 497 313 191 Fixed share allowance 497 Benefits 4 143 40 16 11 7 Pension 350 88 174 109 67 Annual bonus Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP 5 358 Other awards 6 1,911 Total remuneration 1,851 378 3,095 433 265 Notes: 1 Ross McEwans remuneration for 2013 reflected his service from appointment to the Board on 1 October to 31 December 2013.
2 Ewen Stevenson was appointed to the Board on 19 May 2014 and the table reflects his remuneration for the period since appointment.
3 Nathan Bostock joined the Board on 1 October 2013 and stepped down from the Board on 28 May 2014.
See page 84 for details of termination arrangements.
4 Benefits figure includes standard benefit funding of 26,250 per annum with the remainder being relocation expenses provided to Ross McEwan.
5 The value for Ross McEwan relates to an award made on appointment to his previous role as CEO UK Retail to replace awards forfeited on leaving Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
This element of the award was subject to RBS performance conditions which ended on 31 December 2014 and have been assessed as set out below.
6 The amount shown for Ewen Stevenson relates to an award made on appointment to replace the value of awards forfeited on leaving Credit Suisse.
The award was delivered entirely in shares and subject to deferral, on terms that are no more generous than the terms of the awards replaced.
LTIP vesting amount included in the total remuneration table above audited Ross McEwan was granted an award on joining RBS in 2012 to replace part of the awards forfeited on leaving Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
This element was subject to RBS performance conditions over a three year period.
Given his change in role over the period, this has resulted in a weighting of 50% being based on the performance of the Retail franchise and 50% based on RBS-wide measures.
As the award does not vest until August 2015, an indicative share price has been used to estimate the vesting value.
Number of shares under Vesting outcome for RBS Vesting outcome for Final vesting outcome Number of shares to vest in Average share price Value for total remuneration award measures 1 Retail measures 2 weighted 50:50 August 2015 October December 2014 table above 130,841 61.5% 84.2% 72.85% 95,318 3.76 358,396 Notes: 1 This element follows the performance conditions applicable to the overall RBS-wide measures for the 2012 LTIP awards and the assessment is detailed on page 85.
2 The performance measures applicable for UK Retail were based on: Financial targets weighted 50% covering risk weighted assets, nominal assets, loan:deposit ratio, notional return on equity, operating profit, cost:income ratio: Customer measures weighted 10% : People measures weighted 10% : and Risk measures weighted 30%.
All financial targets were deemed to have been met in full with the customer, people and risk measures ranked as partially met.
The Committee also considered recommendations from the Board Risk Committee in determining the final outcome.
Share plan interests awarded under the LTIP during 2014 audited Face value of Number of shares % that would vest at threshold and Performance Grant date award 000 awarded maximum requirements Vesting between 0% - 100% Conditional share awards subject to stretching with 20% vesting at threshold performance conditions covering Economic Profit, for the TSR measure and 25% Relative Total Shareholder Return, Safe & Secure Ross McEwan 1 7 March 2014 3,000 915,193 vesting at threshold for the Bank and Customers & People.
measured over a three year period.
See page 85 for further details.
Award made on appointment to replace the value of awards forfeited on leaving Credit Suisse.
The shares are deferred over a similar time period as the awards replaced and Ewen Stevenson 2 19 May 2014 1,911 584,506 subject to employment, malus and clawback provisions.
Notes: 1 The number of shares awarded is based on a multiple of salary and an award price of 3.278 calculated based on the average share price over five business days prior to the grant date.
2 The number of shares is based on the value of awards replaced and an award price of 3.270 calculated based on the average share price over five business days prior to the grant date.
81 Annual report on remuneration Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration for 2014 audited Remuneration of non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, was reviewed in 2014.
In light of the increased activity of the Nominations Committee, and after consideration of comparable fees paid to directors of other major UK banks, it was agreed that fees for membership of the Nominations Committee should be increased from 5,500 to 10,000 per annum with effect from 1 April 2014.
An additional Board Committee was also established to oversee RBS Capital Resolution and the implementation of its strategy.
The fees paid during 2014 are set out below.
Board and Benefits and 2014 2013 Committee fees other fees Total Total 000s 000s 000s 000s Philip Hampton 1 750 1 751 751 Sandy Crombie 213 213 186 Alison Davis 141 141 132 Morten Friis 2 112 112 Robert Gillespie 3 149 35 184 7 Penny Hughes 178 178 154 Brendan Nelson 183 183 164 Baroness Noakes 186 186 136 Former non-executive directors Tony Di Iorio 4 34 136 11 45 Philip Scott 5 125 125 164 Notes 1 Philip Hampton is entitled to private medical cover and the value is shown in the benefits column.
2 Morten Friis was appointed to the Board with effect from 10 April 2014.
3 Robert Gillespie is the RBS nominated director of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. CFG and is entitled to fees for the period from 1 August 2014 to 31 December 2014.
As part of the compensation plan for directors agreed on the IPO of the business in September 2014, Mr Gillespie is also entitled to restricted stock units in CFG which will vest on the date of the CFG AGM in 2015.
The value of the fees and restricted stock is shown in the Benefits and other fees column, converted using an average exchange rate during 2014 of $1.647:1.
4 Tony Di lorio became a non-executive director of CFG on 15 January 2014 and the value of fees received for the period to 26 March 2014, the date he retired from the RBS Board, is shown in the Benefits and other fees column, converted using an average exchange rate during 2014 of $1.647:1.
5 Philip Scott stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2014.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 The information below sets out how RBS intends to implement the policy in 2015.
No changes have been made to the underlying policy.
Executive directors Pension Fixed Share Allowance Long-term incentive award LTI Salary Benefits 35% of salary 100% of salary 1 calculated in line with regulatory cap 2 Chief Executive 1,000,000 26,250 3 350,000 1,000,000 1,559,810 Chief Financial Officer 800,000 26,250 280,000 800,000 2,160,000 Notes: 1 Fixed Share Allowance will be payable broadly in arrears and the shares will be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
2 The LTI that can be awarded in 2015 is limited to the level of fixed remuneration, on an annualised basis where appropriate.
The value at grant incorporates the discount factor for long-term deferral calculated in line with European Banking Authority rules and results in a maximum LTI value of approximately 113% of fixed remuneration.
3 Also receives relocation benefits which include housing and flight allowances, the value of which is disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
Chairman and non-executive directors fees Chairman 750,000 Non-executive Director Group Board 72,500 Senior Independent Director SID 30,000 Membership of: Group Audit Committee GAC, Board Risk Committee BRC, 30,000 Group Performance and Remuneration Committee RemCo and Sustainable Banking Committee SBC Additional fee for Chairman of the GAC, BRC, RemCo or SBC 30,000 Membership of the RCR Board Oversight Committee RCR BOC 15,000 Additional fee for Chairman of the RCR BOC 15,000 Membership of Group Nominations Committee NomsCo 10,000 Morten Friis is the RBS Board nominated member of the Steering Group to oversee compliance remediation activities in respect of RBSs US businesses for which he receives fees of 15,000 per annum.
Board Committee membership as at 31 December 2014 Sandy Crombie Alison Davis Morten Friis Robert Gillespie Penny Hughes Brendan Nelson Baroness Noakes SID RemCo GAC BRC SBC Chairman GAC Chairman BRC Chairman RemCo Chairman SBC BRC RemCo BRC BRC RCR BOC Chairman GAC NomsCo NomsCo SBC NomsCo RCR BOC GAC RCR BOC NomsCo NomsCo NomsCo NomsCo 82 Annual report on remuneration LTI awards to be granted to executive directors in 2015 Safe & Secure Bank 25% Performance criteria Reason: The Safe & Secure Bank measures have a particular focus on risk reduction and the building of a safer, sustainable franchise.
The performance measures are designed to be stretching and to support delivery of the business strategy.
The measures are discussed each year Measure: The key measures in this category are the achievement of prewith major shareholders.
A three year performance period will apply determined Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 and Cost:income C:I ratios.
which will end, in normal circumstances, on 31 December 2017.
Subject to the achievement of the performance conditions, shares will then vest in Customers & People 25% equal tranches in years four and five.
Reason: These measures reward management for building a customerfocussed franchise with strength in terms of reputation and the In line with previous practice, awards granted to executive directors in engagement of employees.
In February 2014, RBS committed to March 2015 will be subject to four equally weighted performance targeting both trust and advocacy which is reflected in this category.
For Ewen Stevensons award, each performance category can vest up to 100% of base salary, subject to the maximum award under Measure: Net Promoter Scores NPS and Net Trust Scores NTS will the approved policy.
Ross McEwans award will be structured in a similar be used, measured against a defined peer group.
Employee engagement manner but at a lower level in line with the regulatory cap limiting the will be measured against the Global Financial Services GFS norm.
Details of the performance measures and the Committees rationale for selecting them are set out below.
Performance target and weightings Category Metrics Performance target Economic profit 25% target consistent with the achievement of Reason: Economic Profit, being a risk-adjusted financial measure, is CET1 ratio Safe & RBSs target to operate at 13% for the period consistent with the PRA FCA Remuneration Code and also provides a 12.5% Secure of international network restructuring balance between measuring growth and the cost of capital employed in Bank delivering that growth.
C:I ratio target consistent with the achievement of 12.5% RBSs strategic long term C:I target of 50% Measure: Economic Profit is defined as Operating Profit after Tax and Advocacy NPS gap to #1 of 6.0 1 preference share charges less Tangible Net Asset Value multiplied by the 6.25% Cost of Equity.
The measure will be based on the go-forward business.
Customers Trust NTS: NatWest 55, RBS 42 & People 6.25% Performance target and weightings Engagement Employee Engagement Index within 2% of Weighting Performance target Vesting range 12.5% GFS norm The economic profit target will be consistent Note: 25% with the achievement of RBSs strategic long 25 - 100% 1 The NPS metric adopted is a bank-wide measure of the gap to #1 bank, which RBS plans to term return on equity target of 12%.
It is calculated using the gap to #1 leading competitor in each customer segment, weighted by the revenue contribution of each segment.
Details of the actual targets, and performance against these, will be The overall vesting under the above categories will be qualified by the disclosed retrospectively once the awards vest.
Committees discretion taking into account changes in circumstances over the performance period, the margin by which individual targets have Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% been missed or exceeded, and any other relevant factors.
Details of Reason: Relative TSR provides a direct connection between executive performance against targets will be disclosed once the awards vest.
directors awards and relative returns delivered to shareholders.
Risk underpin and clawback Measure: The measure compares performance against a group of The Committee will also review financial and operational performance comparator banks.
The group and respective weightings were changed in against the business strategy and the risk environment prior to agreeing 2014 to be more in line with the new strategy and the same comparator vesting of awards.
In assessing this, the Committee will be advised group will apply to awards made in 2015. independently by the BRC.
If the Committee considers that the vesting outcome calibrated in line with the performance conditions outlined above Relative TSR Comparator Group does not reflect underlying financial results or if the Committee is not Weighting satisfied that conduct and risk management during the performance 1 Barclays 200% period has been effective, then the terms of the awards allow for an 2 Lloyds Banking Group underpin to be used to reduce vesting or lapse the award.
3 HSBC 100% 4 Standard Chartered All awards are subject to malus provisions which allow for awards to be BBVA, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, Credit Suisse reduced, if appropriate to zero, prior to vesting.
In addition, awards 5 to 13 Group, Deutsche Bank, Santander, Societe Generale, 50% granted in 2015 will be subject to clawback provisions for a period of UBS, Unicredito seven years from the grant date, in line with the requirements of the PRA FCA Remuneration Code.
Any awards that vest will be subject to a Performance target and weightings minimum six month retention period.
Weighting Performance target Vesting range 25% TSR between median and upper quartile 20 - 100% 83 Annual report on remuneration Payments for loss of office audited Nathan Bostock ceased to be Group Finance Director on 19 May 2014 and stepped down from the Board on 28 May 2014.
He continued to receive payment of salary, pension and benefit funding until his employment ended on 18 August 2014 a total of 234,952 for the period from 28 May to 18 August 2014.
No payment was made for loss of office and all outstanding share awards were lapsed.
There have been no payments made to departing non-executive directors for loss of office.
Payments to past directors audited Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun received shares on 7 March 2014 following the assessment of performance conditions for the LTIP award granted in 2011.
The award for Stephen Hester was reduced to reflect time served during the period.
The underlying award structure consisted of four performance categories each of which could give rise to shares worth 100% of salary at grant but with the overall maximum capped at 375% of salary.
The performance assessment is set out below.
The current executive directors did not participate in this award.
Executive directors LTIP awards granted in 2011 final assessment of performance outcome audited Performance Measure Weighting Threshold Vesting at Performance for maximum vesting Vesting at Actual performance Vesting % of performance threshold maximum maximum Meet minimum Performance ahead of the The minimum target Economic Profit 25% economic profit 25% 100% 0% Strategic Plan was not met targets TSR was below Relative TSR 25% TSR at median 20% TSR at upper quartile 100% 0% median 9 10 targets met or Balance Sheet & Risk 25% 25% 100% 100% Half objectives Objectives met or exceeded exceeded 1 met in all material respects Strategic Scorecard 25% 25% 100% targets not met 2 0% 25% Overall vesting outcome Notes: 1 Targets relating to non-core assets, cumulative non-core loss, Core Tier 1 capital, wholesale funding, liquidity, leverage ratio, loan to deposit ratio, risk appetite and funded assets were met or exceeded.
While the credit rating condition was not met, given the over-achievement on other measures, the Committee determined that the Balance Sheet & Risk element should vest in full.
2 The cost:income ratio target was not achieved within the Strategic Scorecard and taking into account the extent of the shortfall, the Committee determined that this element should not vest.
Value of payments on vesting audited Number of shares and value per category Stephen Hester Bruce Van Saun Performance category % vesting Maximum shares 2 Vested shares Value 3 Maximum shares 2 Vested shares Value 3 Economic Profit 0% 257,912 170,677 Relative TSR 0% 257,912 170,677 Balance Sheet & Risk 100% 257,912 257,912 858,847 170,677 170,677 568,354 Strategic Scorecard 0% 257,912 170,677 Overall shares vesting 1 25% 257,912 858,847 170,677 568,354 Check within maximum shares available to vest 955,228 632,136 Notes: 1 The Committee also considered recommendations from the Board Risk Committee in determining the outcome above.
2 The maximum number of shares is calculated in line with the underlying award structure where each of the four performance categories could give rise to shares worth 100% of salary at grant but with the overall maximum capped at 375% of salary.
3 Based on share price of 3.33 on date of vesting.
Total Pension Entitlements Bruce Van Saun audited Bruce Van Saun's Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme operates as a cash balance plan.
The rate of return on the accrued fund is determined annually to reflect a long-term low risk investment return on an unsecured basis.
His accrued entitlement at the year end is shown below.
There is no provision for any additional benefit on early retirement.
2014 2013 000s 000s Balance at 1 January 2014 1,030 682 Aggregate contributions that would have been made if funded 306 Investment return 41 42 Total value of fund at 31 December 2014 1,071 1,030 84 Annual report on remuneration Performance conditions for LTIP awards granted in 2012, 2013 and 2014 Awards are due to vest in 2015 to 2017.
An assessment of performance of each relevant element is provided by the control functions and PwC assesses relative TSR performance.
The Committee determines overall vesting based on these assessments including consideration of the drivers of performance and the context against which it was delivered.
Each of the four performance categories could give rise to shares worth 100% of salary at grant, but with the overall maximum capped at 300% of salary.
The assessment is analytical and if any discretion is used in the final assessment, it will be explained.
2012 LTIP final assessment of RBS-wide performance measures audited Threshold Vesting at Vesting at Vesting % of Performance Measure Weighting performance threshold Performance for maximum vesting maximum Actual Performance maximum Economic Profit 25% 3.5 billion 25% 1 billion 100% 1.8 billion 53% th Relative TSR 25% TSR at median 20% TSR at upper quartile 100% 65 percentile ranking 68% Balance Sheet & Risk 25% 25% 100% 8 8 targets met 1 100% Half objectives Objectives met or exceeded met in all material respects Strategic Scorecard 25% 25% 100% 4 7 targets met 2 25% Overall vesting outcome 3 61.5% Notes: 1 Targets relating to non-core assets 40 billion, cumulative non-core loss 6.8 billion, Core Tier 1 capital 10%, leverage ratio 18x, wholesale funding 10%, liquidity reserves 1.5x short-term wholesale funding, loan to deposit ratio 100% and earnings volatility 100% were uniformly met or exceeded resulting in 100% vesting for this element of the award.
2 Targets relating to customer franchise, cost:income ratio, lending targets, sustainability performance, employee engagement, leadership index and succession.
The cost:income ratio and employee engagement index were both behind target and overall it was determined that half of the Strategic Scorecard measures had been met satisfactorily resulting in a 25% vesting outcome.
3 The Committee also considered recommendations from the Board Risk Committee in determining the outcome above.
2013 and 2014 LTIP current assessment The table below shows performance assessment in respect of the 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards which are due to vest in March 2016 and March 2017 respectively.
The table below represents an early indication of potential vesting outcomes only based on the position at 31 December 2014.
Performance measure Weighting Vesting 2013 Current Assessment 2014 Current Assessment A strong start has been made in 2014.
The Committee notes Threshold: 25% vesting for meeting minimum Performance consistent with that strategic decisions have economic profit targets Economic Profit 25% some level of vesting based been taken in 2014 and will Maximum: 100% vesting for performance on current assessment.
monitor the impact of these in ahead of the Strategic Plan.
Threshold: 20% vesting if TSR is at median of Latest assessment shows Latest assessment shows the comparator group.
percentile ranking of 53.7% percentile ranking of 100% Relative TSR 25% Maximum: 100% vesting if TSR is at upper which would result in 32% which would result in 100% quartile of the comparator group.
Pro-rata vesting for this element.
For 2013, vesting will be qualified by A strong start has been made Committee discretion.
Indicative vesting levels Balance Sheet & Risk in 2014.
The Committee notes All measures currently are: for 2013 award that strategic decisions have expected to be on track or 25% been taken in 2014 and will Safe & Secure Bank Over half of objectives not met: 0%: ahead of targets by end of monitor the impact of these in for 2014 award 2015.
Half of objectives met: 25%: the remaining performance Two-thirds of objectives met: 62.5%: and period.
Objectives met or exceeded in all material The cost:income ratio target respects: 100%.
remains challenging and is Engagement Index currently Strategic Scorecard unlikely to be met.
For 2014 awards, target ranges have been set behind target.
Improvement in for 2013 award for each measure and vesting will be qualified Engagement Index is behind 25% Net Promoter Score over 2014 by Committee discretion taking into account the target.
Customer and Customers & People would lead to some level of margin by which targets have been missed or leadership metrics would for 2014 award exceeded.
result in some level of vesting on current assessment.
85 Annual report on remuneration Directors interests in shares and shareholding requirements audited The target shareholding level is 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer, in each case excluding any unvested share awards in the calculation.
A period of five years is allowed in which to build up shareholdings to meet the required levels.
Shareholding requirements will be considered when relevant individuals request permission to sell shares, recognising the timeframe allowed to achieve the target level.
The Committee receives annual updates on progress towards meeting these requirements.
As at 31 December 2014 or date of cessation if earlier Value 1 % of shareholding Unvested Deferral Plan Shares beneficially owned requirement met Unvested LTIP awards awards Ross McEwan 754,987 2,974,649 119% 1,742,186 37,596 Ewen Stevenson 70,978 279,653 28% 584,506 2 Nathan Bostock 375,969 1,289,574 135% Philip Hampton 27,630 Sandy Crombie 20,000 Alison Davis 20,000 3 Morten Friis 20,000 Robert Gillespie 25,000 Penny Hughes 562 Brendan Nelson 12,001 Baroness Noakes 21,000 4 Tony Di Iorio 30,000 5 Philip Scott 50,000 Notes: 1 Value is based on the share price on 31 December 2014, which was 3.94: for Nathan Bostock the value is based on the share price of 3.43 on 28 May 2014, the date he stepped down from the Board.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the share price ranged from 2.96 to 4.04.
2 Stepped down from the Board on 28 May 2014.
3 Interest is 10,000 American Depository Receipts representing 20,000 ordinary shares.
4 Interest is 15,000 American Depository Receipts representing 30,000 ordinary shares.
Stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2014.
5 Stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2014.
No other director had an interest in the company's ordinary shares during the year or held a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the company at 31 December 2014, at 1 January 2014 or date of appointment if later.
The interests shown above include connected persons of the directors.
As at 25 February 2015, there were no changes to the directors' interests in shares shown in the table above.
Members of the Executive Committee are also subject to shareholding requirements with a target shareholding level of 125% of salary.
In line with the requirements of the PRA FCA Remuneration Code and the RBS Staff Dealing Rules, employees must not engage in any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of unvested share awards, for example if the RBS share price goes down.
Directors interests under the Groups share plans audited Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards Awards held at Awards Award Awards Market price Value on End of period for 1 January 2014 or date of granted price vested on vesting vesting Awards held at qualifying conditions appointment if later in 2014 in 2014 31 December 2014 to be fulfilled Ross McEwan 562,929 1 2.14 432,088 3.40 1,469,099 130,841 07.08.15 696,152 3.09 696,152 08.03.16 915,193 3.28 915,193 07.03.17 1,259,081 915,193 432,088 1,742,186 Ewen Stevenson 2 584,506 3.27 584,506 09.03.15 07.03.17 Deferred awards Awards Award Awards Market price Value on End of period for Awards held at granted price vested on vesting Vesting Awards held at qualifying conditions 1 January 2014 in 2014 in 2014 31 December 2014 to be fulfilled Ross McEwan 56,395 3.09 18,799 3.33 62,601 37,596 08.03.15 08.03.16 Notes: 1 Relates to an award made to Ross McEwan on joining RBS as CEO UK Retail in September 2012 to replace awards forfeited on leaving Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
2 Ewen Stevenson was appointed to the Board on 19 May 2014.
Award granted on appointment to replace awards forfeited on leaving Credit Suisse.
Outstanding share awards under the LTIP 2,151,234 shares, Deferred awards 289,536 shares, the Executive Share Option Plan option over 207,467 shares at 4.62 and the Medium-term Performance Plan 117,809 scheme interests all lapsed as a result of his departure.
86 Annual report on remuneration Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The graph below shows the performance of RBS over the past six years in terms of TSR compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The TSR for FTSE UK banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
The TSR for the company and the indices have been rebased to 100 at 1 January 2009.
Source: Datastream 200 180 160 140 120 RBS 100 FTSE 100 80 FTSE UK Banks 60 40 20 0 2008 YE 2009 YE 2010 YE 2011 YE 2012 YE 2013 YE 2014 YE Historical Chief Executive pay over same period 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 2014 Total remuneration 000s 1,647 3,687 1,646 1,646 1,235 SH 378 RM 1,851 Annual bonus against maximum opportunity 0% 85% 0% 0% 0% n a LTIP vesting rates against maximum opportunity 2 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 72.85% Note: 1 2013 remuneration includes Stephen Hester SH as CEO for the period to 30 September and Ross McEwan RM for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2013.
2 The LTIP vesting for Ross McEwan relates to an award made on appointment to his previous role as CEO UK Retail to replace awards forfeited on leaving Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
Change in Chief Executive pay compared to employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration for the Chief Executive between 2014 and 2013 compared with the percentage change in the average remuneration of RBS employees based in the UK.
In each case, remuneration is based on salary, benefits and annual bonus.
Salary Benefits Annual Bonus 2014 to 2013 change 2014 to 2013 change 2014 to 2013 change Chief Executive 1 0% 0% n a UK employees 2 3% 3% 4% Notes: 1 Executive directors are not eligible for an annual bonus.
Standard benefit funding for executive directors remained unchanged between 2013 and 2014.
The benefits for the Chief Executive excludes the relocation expenses provided to Ross McEwan as part of his recruitment as CEO UK Retail in 2012.
The value of relocation benefits is disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
2 Data represents full year salary costs of the UK based employee population, which covers the majority of RBS employees and is considered to be the most representative comparator group.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison of remuneration expenditure against other disbursements.
2014 1 2013 1 m m change Remuneration paid to all employees 2 5,225 5,554 6% Distributions to holders of ordinary shares Distributions to holders of preference shares 3 699 398 76% Taxation and other charges recognised in the income statement: - Social security and other payments 422 10% 379 - Bank levy 200 25% 250 - Corporation tax 186 1,723m 1,909 Other payments made by RBS - Irrecoverable VAT and other indirect taxes incurred by RBS 4 703 5% 665 Notes: 1 Numbers exclude discontinued operations, principally CFG.
2 Remuneration paid to all employees represents total staff expenses per Note 3 to the Financial Statements, exclusive of social security and other staff costs.
3 Includes initial payment relating to the initial dividend on the Dividend Access Share in 2014.
4 Input VAT and other indirect taxes not recoverable by RBS due to it being partially exempt.
The items above have been included as they reflect the key stakeholders for RBS and the major categories of disbursements made by RBS to its key stakeholders, including its ordinary and preference shareholders and Governments in RBSs operational territories.
The amounts included above have been calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards and reflect the amounts included in RBSs Income statement.
87 Annual report on remuneration Second quarter Consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration Executive Committee members 2014 objectives.
Membership of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Proposals for specific areas including CIB and RCR.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee held nine scheduled meetings in 2014 and a further Compensation funding model including 2014 risk adjustment process.
Response to FCA letter in relation to Malus Performance Adjustment.
Attended Group Sales and Service Incentives Committee 2013 annual scheduled Penny Hughes 1 5 5 incentive report and FCA Incentives Thematic Review Report.
Sandy Crombie 2 9 9 Third quarter Alison Davis 9 9 Review of the implementation of the remuneration policy.
Robert Gillespie 3 6 6 Executive Committee members and attendees half year performance Notes: 1 Chair until 25 June 2014 reviews and objectives update.
2 Chairman from 25 June 2014 3 Robert Gillespie was appointed to the Committee on 1 April 2014.
Organisation design and executive grading framework update.
The role and responsibilities of the Committee External environment including PRA consultation on further changes The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration policy for to the Remuneration Code.
all employees and overseeing its implementation.
It reviews performance and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of the remuneration The Committee undertook a Masterclass in July 2014 where inarrangements of the executive directors.
The Committee is also depth consideration was given to pay construct and people responsible for approving remuneration arrangements for members and proposition: the role & scope of the Committee: and stakeholder formal attendees of the Executive Committee and employees with total engagement.
annual compensation which exceeds 1 million.
It is also responsible for setting the remuneration framework and principles for MRTs falling within Fourth quarter the scope of the PRA FCA Remuneration Code.
A definition of 2014 preliminary pay elements including bonus pool, deferral, LTIP employees deemed to be MRTs along with details of how risk is taken and clawback policy.
into account in the remuneration process is provided on pages 91 and 92.
Remuneration Policy Statement for the PRA.
In mitigating potential conflicts of interest, directors are not involved in Update on external environment and regulatory developments.
decisions regarding their own remuneration and remuneration advisers are appointed by the Committee rather than management.
The terms of RCR remuneration proposals.
reference of the Committee are available on www.
com and these are Consideration of governance issues including delegated authorities reviewed at least annually and approved by the Board.
and the Accountability Review framework.
Summary of the principal activity of the Committee during 2014 Performance evaluation process The Committee considered issues under the accountability review A thorough internal review of the effectiveness of the Committee was process at every meeting and CRD IV implementation at the majority of conducted during 2014 involving questionnaires and follow-up interviews.
Consideration was also given to various remuneration issues The Committee considered the outcomes of the evaluation and is for CFG in the run up to its IPO.
Set out below is a summary of other key satisfied with the way in which the evaluation has been conducted.
activities considered by the Committee.
The review concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively First quarter and the Masterclass was viewed as a positive development in building 2013 performance reviews and remuneration arrangements for the future agenda.
Themes emerging from the evaluation included using members of the Executive Committee, Code Staff and high earners.
the time of the Committee more effectively and the need to focus on Approval of variable pay pools and Directors Remuneration Report.
higher level strategic performance and remuneration priorities.
The importance of concise papers highlighting key issues was also raised and Outcomes of the annual performance evaluation of the Committee.
a roll out of board paper training is already underway in Q1 2015 to address some of these concerns.
Other priorities that were identified for Assessment of the performance to date of unvested LTIP awards and 2015 included: alignment of remuneration strategy to the business performance targets for 2014 awards.
strategy: creating a compelling employee proposition: and considering Appointment and departure terms for various senior positions.
performance trajectory and the pay construct for the future business.
Presentation from Compliance and Risk on business and strategic priorities and people plans.
88 Annual report on remuneration Advisers to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee In late 2014 and early 2015, meetings took place with a number of The Committee reviews its selection of advisers annually.
institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies representing a  LLP PwC were appointed as the Committees substantial portion of the non-UKFI shareholding.
The topics discussed remuneration advisers on 14 September 2010 following a review of during the latest consultation included strategic direction and financial potential advisers, and their appointment was reconfirmed by the performance, determination of pay outcomes for the 2014 performance Committee in July 2014 after an annual review of the quality of the advice year, and developments that may impact pay arrangements going received and fees charged.
PwC are signatories to the voluntary code of forward.
conduct in relation to remuneration consulting in the UK.
Shareholders asked a number of questions including how conduct issues PwC also provide professional services in the ordinary course of and the FX fines would be reflected in the bonus pool.
The evolving business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice to RBS regulatory environment and EBA guidance on role-based allowances subsidiaries.
The Chairman of the Committee is notified of other were also discussed.
Some shareholders were interested to know remuneration work that is being undertaken by PwC.
In addition, there whether operating within the 1:1 ratio of variable to fixed remuneration are processes in place to ensure the advice received by the Committee is was causing any particular concerns for RBS.
The potential impact on independent of any support provided to management.
As well as recruitment and the importance of employee engagement were also receiving advice from PwC in 2014, the Committee took account at discussed.
Another theme was explaining progress on performance meetings of the views of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial measures and it was noted that additional detail on LTIP performance Officer, Chief HR Officer, the Director, Organisation & Performance, the targets would be helpful.
Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Officer.
The fees paid to PwC The Chairman of the Committee responded to the questions by for advising the Committee in relation to directors remuneration are explaining how adjustments for risk and conduct events were charged on a time cost basis and in 2014 amounted to 137,749 incorporated into the bonus pool and also confirmed that operating within excluding VAT 2013 - 190,465. the 1:1 cap had proved to be manageable to date.
Overall, recruitment into specialist roles had not been as difficult as had been anticipated Statement of Shareholding Voting although certain hotspots remained.
The future pay construct was also The table below sets out the voting by shareholders on the resolutions to discussed and the Chairman acknowledged the need for a fair sharing approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the 2013 Remuneration ratio between rewards to employees and returns to shareholders over the Report at the AGM held in June 2014. long-term.
Directors Remuneration Policy The reaction to the consultation process was positive and allowed the Committee to gain valuable insight into areas that shareholders were For Against Total votes cast Withheld likely to support and those areas of concern.
Shareholders continue to 20,893,215,888 70,382,756 20,963,598,644 170,307,216 play a vital role in developing remuneration practices that support the 99.66% 0.34% long-term interests of the business and the Committee is grateful and greatly encouraged by their involvement in the process.
Annual Report on Remuneration for 2013 Shareholder dilution For Against Total votes cast Withheld During the ten year period to 31 December 2014, awards made that 21,034,273,904 40,636,912 21,074,910,816 58,993,972 could require new issue shares under the company's share plans 99.81% 0.19% represented 4.7% of the company's issued ordinary share capital including the B share capital, leaving an available dilution headroom of Shareholders views and their impact on remuneration policy 5.3%.
The company meets its employee share plan obligations through a An extensive consultation is undertaken every year with major combination of new issue shares and market purchase shares.
shareholders including UKFI and other stakeholders on our remuneration approach.
The consultation process, led by the Chairman of the Committee, typically involves inviting our largest shareholders to attend either one-to-one meetings or roundtable sessions with relevant shareholder bodies.
The process takes place in sufficient time for shareholder views to be considered prior to the Committee making any final decisions on remuneration and variable pay awards.
Sandy Crombie Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 25 February 2015 89 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives below Board 1 000s Executive 1 Executive 2 Executive 3 Executive 4 Executive 5 Executive 6 Executive 7 Executive 8 Fixed pay cash 800 594 550 600 575 492 536 575 Fixed share allowance 800 600 550 600 600 500 288 300 Annual bonus Long term incentive awards vested value 449 211 193 144 196 Total remuneration 2 2,049 1,405 1,293 1,200 1,175 1,136 1,020 875 Notes: 1 Remuneration earned in 2014 at RBS for eight members of the Executive Committee.
Reported remuneration was lower in 2013 due to: i pro-rated earnings and no long term incentive award vesting for new hires: and ii split year earnings of newly promoted Executive Committee members.
2 Disclosure includes prior year long term incentive awards which vested during 2014.
The amounts shown reflect the value of vested awards using the share price on the day the awards vested.
90 Other Remuneration Disclosures Our remuneration policy for all employees The remuneration policy supports the business strategy and is designed to promote the long-term success of RBS.
It aims to reward employees for delivering good performance against targets provided this is achieved in a manner consistent with our values and within acceptable risk parameters.
The remuneration policy applies the same principles to all employees including Material Risk Takers MRTs subject to the PRA FCA Remuneration Code 1.
The current key elements underpinning the remuneration policy are set out below.
Element of pay Objective Operation Base salary To aid recruitment and retention of Base salaries are reviewed annually and should reflect the talents, skills and high performing individuals whilst competencies that the individual brings to the business.
paying no more than is necessary.
To provide a competitive level of fixed cash remuneration, reflecting the skills and experience required, and to discourage excessive risk taking.
Role-based To provide fixed pay that reflects the Allowances are provided to certain employees in key roles in line with market practice, allowance skills and experience required for the structured to qualify as fixed remuneration for regulatory requirements.
delivered in cash and or shares depending on the level of the allowance and the seniority of the recipient.
Shares are subject to an appropriate retention period, not less than six months.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible and In most jurisdictions, employee benefits or a cash equivalent are provided from a flexible including pension market competitive benefits.
encourage planning for retirement and long-term savings.
Annual bonus To support a culture where employees The annual bonus pool is based on a balanced scorecard of measures including recognise the importance of serving customer, financial, risk and people measures.
Allocation from the pool depends on customers well and are rewarded for performance of the franchise or function and the individual.
assessment is supported by a structured performance management framework.
Guaranteed awards are only used in very limited circumstances in accordance with the PRA FCA Remuneration Code.
Immediate cash awards are limited to a maximum of 2,000.
Under the deferral arrangements a significant proportion of annual bonus awards for our more senior employees are deferred over a three year period.
Deferred awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
For MRTs, a minimum of 50% of any annual bonus is delivered in RBS shares and subject to a minimum six month retention period post vesting.
In certain circumstances, formulaic short-term incentive arrangements are used to align the objectives of employees with the strategy of the relevant area in which they work.
Long-term To support a culture where good RBS provides certain employees in senior roles with long-term incentive awards.
incentive awards performance against a full range of Awards are structured as performance-vesting shares.
Performance is typically measures will be rewarded.
To measured over a three year period.
encourage the creation of value over The amount of the award that vests may vary between 0-100% depending on the the long term and to align further the performance achieved.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions and a rewards of the participants with the minimum six month retention period applies to MRTs post vesting.
Other share plans To offer employees in certain Employees in certain countries are eligible to contribute to share plans which are not jurisdictions the opportunity to acquire subject to performance conditions.
Note: 1 The EBA has issued criteria for identifying MRT roles i. e. staff whose professional activities have a material influence over RBSs performance or risk profile.
The criteria for identifying MRTs are both Qualitative based on the nature of the role and Quantitative i. e. those who exceed the stipulated total remuneration threshold based on the previous years total remuneration.
The Qualitative criteria can be summarised as: staff within the management body: senior management: other staff with key functional or managerial responsibilities: and staff, individually or as part of a Committee, with authority to approve new business products or to commit to credit risk exposures and market risk transactions above certain levels.
The Quantitative Remuneration criteria are: individuals earning 500,000 or more in the previous year: or individuals in the top 0.3% of earners in the previous year: or individuals who earned more than the lowest paid identified staff per the Qualitative criteria, subject to specific exceptions in the criteria.
In accordance with the PRA FCA Remuneration Code and the RBS Staff Dealing Rules, the conditions attaching to discretionary share-based awards prohibit the use of any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of such awards.
91 Other Remuneration Disclosures How risk is reflected in our remuneration process Decisions must take into account not only any financial losses, but The RBS remuneration policy explicitly aligns remuneration with effective also behavioural issues and reputational or internal costs.
Focus on risk is achieved through clear risk input into objectives, performance reviews, the determination of variable pools and Collective responsibility may be considered where a committee or incentive plan design as well as the application of malus and clawback.
group of employees are deemed to have not appropriately The Committee is supported in this by the Board Risk Committee BRC discharged their duties.
and the RBS risk management function.
Malus provisions apply to any unvested variable pay awards and A robust process is used to assess risk performance.
A range of can be applied to reduce awards if appropriate to zero regardless measures are considered, specifically the overall Risk Profile, Credit, of whether or not disciplinary action has been undertaken.
Regulatory Risk & Conduct Risk, Operational Risk, Enterprise Risk and Market Risk.
The steps we take to ensure appropriate and thorough risk In addition to malus provisions that RBS has operated for a number adjustment are also fully disclosed and discussed with the PRA and the of years, any variable pay awarded from 1 January 2014 was FCA.
subject to clawback and this policy was updated for MRTs from 1 January 2015 to extend clawback to seven years from the date of Variable pay pool determination grant.
Clawback allows for the recovery of awards that have vested For the 2014 performance year, RBS has adopted a multi-step process and our policy is in line with the requirement under the PRA FCA which is a control function led assessment to determine performance and Remuneration Code.
therefore the appropriate bonus pool by franchise and function.
How have we applied this in practice?
The process considers a balanced scorecard of performance The Accountability Review process is fully embedded and is operated assessments at the level of each franchise or support function.
There are certain trigger events under which malus assessments are made across financial, customer and people measures.
and clawback will be considered including: Risk and conduct assessments at the same franchise or functional level are then conducted to ensure that performance that is achieved without the individual participating in or being responsible for conduct which appropriate risk and conduct controls or culture is not inappropriately results in significant losses for RBS: rewarded.
the individual failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness and BRC will then review any material risk and conduct events and if propriety: appropriate an underpin may be applied to the individual business and function bonus pools and where appropriate to the overall RBS bonus reasonable evidence of an individuals misbehaviour or material pool.
BRC may recommend reduction of a bonus pool if it considers that error: and risk and conduct performance is unacceptable or that the impact of poor risk management has yet to be fully reflected in the respective inputs.
RBS or the individuals relevant business unit suffering a material failure of risk management.
Following further review against overall performance and conduct, the Chief Executive will make a final recommendation to the Committee During 2014 a number of issues and events were considered under the informed by all the previous steps in the process and his strategic view of Accountability Review framework.
The outcomes covered a range of the business.
The Committee will then make an independent decision on actions including: forfeiture of unvested awards through malus, reduction the final bonus pool taking all of these earlier steps into account.
of current year variable pay awards: dismissal with forfeiture of unvested awards: and suspension of awards pending further investigation.
Accountability review process and malus clawback Remuneration Code Our Accountability Review process is an important tool in how we As part of the annual remuneration governance process we provide manage remuneration and manage adjustments to remuneration.
A details of our approach to pay and how we comply with the Remuneration summary of the accountability review process is as follows: Code to the PRA and FCA.
As in previous years we have received the required regulatory confirmation in order to conclude our year end Exists to enable RBS to respond in instances where current and or remuneration process.
new information would change variable pay decisions made in previous years and or the decisions to be made in the current year.
The process for review assessments which consider material risk management, control and general policy breach failures, accountability for those events and appropriate action against individuals is operated across RBS.
92 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of MRTs The quantitative disclosures below are made in accordance with Article 4.
Sign-on and severance payments 450 of the EU Capital Requirements Regulation in relation to employees A sign-on award for guaranteed variable remuneration of 190,000 is who have been identified as MRTs.
During the year, there were 904 included in the tables above.
This relates to a commitment on employees identified as MRTs excluding CFG 954 employees including recruitment made in respect of one new employee.
The tables below show remuneration details for the population payments were made outside of contractual payments related to excluding CFG.
termination of employment such as pay in lieu of notice and benefits.
Aggregate remuneration expenditure Notes on the presentation of remuneration Aggregate remuneration expenditure in respect of 2014 performance was In the relevant tables above, assumptions have been made for the as follows: notional value of LTIP verified by external advisors and forfeitures through resignation for deferred awards.
In addition, the share price CIB Rest of RBS m m relevant to the date of the event or valuation point has been used.
Amounts and form of fixed and variable remuneration The average salary for all employees is 35,000.
Fixed remuneration for 2014 6,700 employees earn between 100,000 and 250,000.
Consisted of salaries, allowances, pensions and benefits.
1,200 employees earn total remuneration over 250,000.
Senior management Others m m Number of Number of Total remuneration by band for all employees employees 15.6 279.8 employees earning 1 million 2014 2013 59 88 1.0m - 1.5m Variable remuneration for 2014 performance 29 22 1.5m - 2.0m Consisted of deferred awards payable over a three year period.
Cash 8 6 2.0m - 2.5m awards were limited to a maximum of 2,000 per employee.
5 4 2.5m - 3.0m Senior management Others 3 3 3.0m - 3.5m Form of remuneration m m 0 1 3.5m - 4.0m Variable remuneration cash 1.4 1 2 4.0m - 4.5m Deferred remuneration bonds 14.2 2 2 4.5m - 5.0m Deferred remuneration shares 99.2 3 2 5.0m - 6.0m 0 0 6.0m - 7.0m Long-term incentives awarded for 2014 performance 0 1 Long-term incentive awards vest subject to the extent to which 7.0m - 8.0m performance conditions are met and can result in zero payment.
110 131 Total Senior management Others Notes: m m 1 Total remuneration in the table above includes fixed pay, pension and benefit funding and variable pay including actual value of LTIP vesting in 2014 after the application of clawback.
14.4 17.5 2 Executive directors and 16 employees of CFG are not included in the table.
3 An illustration of a comparable population from 2013 is shown for ease of reference.
The In accordance with Article 94 1 g of the fourth Capital Requirements table is based on an exchange rate where applicable of 1.241 to 1 Directive, the variable component of total remuneration for MRTs at RBS Employees that earned total remuneration of over 1 million in 2014 shall not exceed 100% of the fixed component.
Based on the information represent just 0.1% of our employees.
This number reduces to 98 disclosed above, the average ratio between fixed and variable employees if we exclude pension and benefit funding.
These employees remuneration for 2014 is approximately 1:0.5. include those who manage major businesses and functions with responsibility for significant assets, earnings or areas of strategic activity 3.
Outstanding deferred remuneration through 2014 and can be grouped as follows: The table below includes deferred remuneration awarded or paid out in 2014 in respect of prior performance years.
Deferred remuneration The CEOs responsible for each area and their direct reports.
reduced during the year relates to long-term incentives lapsed when Employees managing large businesses within a franchise.
performance conditions are not met, long-term incentives and deferred Income generators responsible for high levels of income including awards forfeited on leaving and malus of prior year deferred awards and those involved in managing trading activity and supporting clients long-term incentives.
with more complex financial transactions, including financial Senior management Others restructuring.
Category of deferred remuneration m m Those responsible for managing our balance sheet and liquidity and Unvested from prior year 34.5 357.3 funding positions across the business.
Awarded during the financial year 16.2 242.4 Employees managing the successful disposal of assets in RCR and Paid out 8.7 189.6 reducing RBSs capital requirements.
Reduced from prior years 11.3 48.1 Unvested at year end 32.3 366.2 93 Compliance report Statement of compliance RBS is committed to high standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014, RBS has complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council dated September 2012 the Code except in relation to provision D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
RBS considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for the Board and this is an approach RBS has adopted for a number of years.
Remuneration for the executive directors is first considered by the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee which then makes recommendations to the Board for consideration.
This approach allows all non-executive directors, and not just those who are members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, to participate in decisions on the executive directors and the Chairmans remuneration and also allows the executive directors to input to the decision on the Chairmans remuneration.
The Board believes this approach is very much in line with the spirit of the Code and no director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
We do not anticipate any changes to our approach on this aspect of the Code.
Information on how RBS has applied the main principles of the Code can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 42 to 93.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
uk RBS has also implemented the recommendations arising from the Walker Review and complied in all material respects with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of corporate governance and business and financial disclosures and controls apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
RBS complies with all applicable sections of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, subject to a number of exceptions available to foreign private issuers.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the system of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In devising internal controls, RBS has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by RBS, which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and to 25 February 2015, the date the directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This is confirmed by a semi-annual Control Environment Certification process which requires senior members of the executive and management to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control framework and certify that their business or function is compliant with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the UK Corporate Governance Code Section C2.
The policies that govern these processes, and reports on internal controls arising from them, are regularly reviewed by the Board and meet the requirements of the document entitled Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
Enhancements have been made to the Risk Management framework throughout 2014 and further improvements will be made in 2015.
The effectiveness of RBSs internal controls framework is reviewed regularly by the Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Board and executive management on the quality and effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal controls to monitor, manage and mitigate risks in achieving RBSs objectives.
Executive management committees or boards of directors in each of the RBS businesses also receive regular reports on significant risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
In addition, the Board receives monthly risk management reports.
Details of the approach to risk management are given in the Capital and risk management section.
The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action to remedy any material failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of RBSs framework of controls.
RBSs independent auditors present to the Group Audit Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other regulated entities in RBS is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision section on page 470.
94 Compliance report Internal control over financial reporting RBS is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2014.
RBS has assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2014 based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the 2013 publication of Internal Control - Integrated Framework'.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2014, RBSs internal control over financial reporting is effective.
RBSs auditors have audited the effectiveness of RBSs internal control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified opinion.
Management's report on the RBSs internal control over financial reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the 2014 Annual Report on Form 20-F. Disclosure controls and procedures As required by US regulations, management including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of RBSs disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the Exchange Act rules as at 31 December 2014.
Based on this evaluation, management including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that RBSs disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Changes in internal control There was no change in RBSs internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, RBSs internal control over financial reporting.
The New York Stock Exchange As a foreign issuer with American Depository Shares representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, RBS is not required to comply with all of the NYSE standards applicable to US domestic companies the NYSE Standards provided that it follows home country practice in lieu of the NYSE Standards and discloses any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the NYSE Standards.
RBS is also required to provide an Annual Written Affirmation to the NYSE of its compliance with the applicable NYSE Standards.
As a foreign private issuer, the company must, however, comply fully with the provisions of the NYSE Standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
These provisions incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of the Exchange Act.
The Group Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the NYSE Standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
In May 2014, the company submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
More detailed information about the Group Audit Committee and its work during 2014 is set out in the Group Audit Committee report on pages 57 to 61.
RBS has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSE Standards, subject to the following departures: i the Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee, which is permitted under the Code since the Chairman was considered independent on appointment ii although the members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee are deemed independent in compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Board has not assessed the independence of the members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and of its compensation committee advisers in accordance with the independence tests prescribed by the NYSE Standards iii the NYSE Standards require that the compensation committee must have direct responsibility to review and approve the Chief Executives remuneration.
As stated at the start of this Compliance report, in the case of RBS, the Board, rather than the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of the Chief Executive.
RBSs Group Audit, Board Risk, Sustainable Banking and Group Nominations Committees are otherwise composed solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate governance report and the Report of the directors.
95 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for In addition to the segments noted above, RBS will continue to manage the year ended 31 December 2014. and report Citizens Financial Group CFG and RBS Capital Resolution RCR separately until disposal or wind-down.
Group structure The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary RCR became fully operational on 1 January 2014 with a pool of c. 29 share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct billion of assets with particularly high long-term capital intensity, credit operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
RBS comprises the risk and or potentially volatile outcomes in stressed environments.
RCR company and all its subsidiary and associates, including the Royal Bank brings these assets under common management and increases focus on and NatWest.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the managing these assets down so as to release capital.
company are shown in Note 8 on page 456.
On 31 October 2014 RBS confirmed it will retain Ulster Bank following Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, completion of the strategic review.
Ulster Bank remains a core part of HM Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary RBS, offering a good strategic fit with RBSs focused retail and share capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a commercial banking strategy.
further 25.5 billion of new capital to HMT.
This new capital took the form of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general Results and dividends meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary The loss attributable to the ordinary and B shareholders of the company shares and qualify as Core Tier 1 capital.
Following the issuance of the B for the year ended 31 December 2014 amounted to 3,470 million shares, HMTs holding of ordinary shares of the company remained at compared with a loss of 8,995 million for the year ended 31 December 70.3%, although its economic interest rose to 84.4%.
2013, as set out in the consolidated income statement on page 342.
At 31 December 2014, HMTs holding in the companys ordinary shares The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2013 or 2014. was 62.3% and its economic interest was 79.1%.
RBS has now resumed payments on all discretionary non-equity capital Strategic review instruments following the end of the European Commission ban in 2012 On 27 February 2014, RBS announced a refreshed strategic direction for RBS and 2013 for RBS N. V. Future coupons and dividends on hybrid with the ambition of building a bank which earns its customers trust by capital instruments will only be paid subject to, and in accordance with, serving them better than any other bank.
the terms of the relevant instruments.
RBS is now structured to deliver this ambition by organising itself around In the context of prior macro-prudential policy discussions, the Board the needs of its customers, so as to combine customer groups with decided to partially neutralise any impact on Core Tier 1 capital of coupon similar needs into franchises able to deliver co-ordinated services.
and dividend payments in respect of 2014 Group hybrid capital instruments through equity issuances of c. 300 million.
Consequently, The reorganised bank will be a UK-focused retail and corporate bank with approximately 300 million was raised during 2014 through the issue of an international footprint to drive its corporate business.
The previously new ordinary shares.
reported operating divisions are now realigned into three franchises: For 2015, the Board has decided to continue partially neutralising the Personal & Business Banking PBB, comprising two reportable Core Tier 1 impact of Group hybrid capital instruments.
It is expected that segments, UK Personal & Business Banking, including Williams & 300 million of new equity will be issued during the course of 2015 to Glyn, UK PBB and Ulster Bank.
Commercial & Private Banking CPB, comprising two reportable The Dividend Access Share DAS retirement agreement was approved segments, Commercial Banking and Private Banking.
at the General Meeting of shareholders held on 25 June 2014.
The first dividend payment on the DAS of 320 million was made in the third Corporate & Institutional Banking CIB.
The balance of 1.18 billion is to be paid by 31 December 2015, if the balance is not paid by this point then interest begins to accrue on the balance outstanding at 5% per annum until 1 January 2021 and 10% thereafter.
96 Report of the directors Business review Business divestments Activities To comply with the European Commission State Aid requirements RBS RBS is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking and agreed a series of restructuring measures.
These include the divestment other financial services.
Further details of the organisational structure and of Direct Line Insurance Group plc completed in 2014 the sale of business overview of RBS, including the products and services provided 80.01% of RBSs Global Merchant Services business completed in by each of its segments and the competitive markets in which they 2010 and the sale of substantially all of the RBS Sempra Commodities operate, are contained in the Business review on pages 105 to 107. joint venture business largely completed in 2010, as well as the Details of the strategy for delivering the companys objectives can be divestment of the RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and found in the Strategic report.
the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the direct SME customers across the UK UK branch-based businesses.
Risk factors RBSs future performance and results could be materially different from In October 2012, Santander UK plc withdrew from its agreed purchase of expected results depending on the outcome of certain potential risks and the UK branch-based businesses.
In September 2013, RBS reached an uncertainties.
Certain risk factors RBS faces are summarised in the agreement with an investor consortium led by Corsair Capital and Business review on page 108 to 110.
Fuller details of these and other risk Centerbridge Partners for an investment in these businesses ahead of a factors are set out on page 474 to 492. stock market flotation.
This includes 308 RBS branches in England and Wales.
The new bank will be called Williams & Glyn, the brand RBS used The reported results of RBS are also sensitive to the accounting policies, for its branches in England and Wales before 1985.
It is intended that assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial Williams & Glyn will be launched by the end of 2016. statements.
Details of RBSs critical accounting policies and key sources of accounting judgments are included in Accounting policies on pages During 2014, RBS completed the disposal of its shareholding in Direct 357 to 359.
This followed earlier disposals of 34.7% of DLG shares in 2012 and 36.8% of DLG shares in 2013.
RBSs approach to risk management, including its financial risk management objectives and policies and information on RBSs exposure In September 2014, RBS completed a partial IPO of Citizens Financial to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the Business Group CFG resulting in 28.75% of CFGs shares being floated.
Full review: Capital and risk management.
disposal of CFG is expected by the end of 2016.
Financial performance Employees A review of RBS's performance during the year ended 31 December As at 31 December 2014, RBS employed 108,700 people full-time 2014, including details of each segment, and RBS's financial position as equivalent basis, including temporary workers throughout the world.
at that date is contained in the Business review on pages 111 to 162.
Details of related costs are included in Note 3 on the consolidated accounts.
RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by RBS, the Dutch Leadership State successor to Fortis and Santander together, the Consortium Developing great leaders with the capability to deliver our ambition to be Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. number one for customer service, trust and advocacy is a key priority, aligned to our People and Leadership Standards.
In 2014 we rolled out On 1 April 2010, the businesses acquired by the Dutch State were Team Effectiveness sessions for new executive teams to help them role transferred to ABN AMRO Group N. V. itself owned by the Dutch State.
In model our values and lead the transition to a new RBS.
connection with the transfer ABN AMRO Holding N. V. was renamed RBS Holdings N. V. and its banking subsidiary was renamed The Royal Bank Employee engagement of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V.. For RBS, building an engaged, healthy and inclusive workforce is crucial.
Every year since 1999, through the Our View survey, people in all our In October 2011, RBS completed the transfer of a substantial part of the businesses have shared their thoughts about what its like to work at UK activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank.
Substantially all of the RBS.
The survey enables our people leaders to monitor levels of Netherlands and EMEA businesses were transferred to the Royal Bank in engagement and work with their teams to make improvements to the September 2012.
Russia, Korea and the North American businesses working environment.
It also provides a mechanism for RBS to track were transferred to the Royal Bank in 2013.
During 2014, the Thailand employee perception of our culture and the progress were making.
business was transferred to the Royal Bank.
Certain assets of RBS N. V. continue to be shared by the Consortium Members.
97 Report of the directors Living our values Supporting the professionalisation of our front line staff, all of our The ways that we recruit, promote, reward, and manage our people are customer-facing employees are aware of the professional standards all aligned to our values, and this coherent approach is making a expected of them, and as at the end of 2014, 86% have completed difference within the organisation with more people year on year related professional development programmes, giving colleagues the believing our values are making a difference to the way we work.
skills they need to do their job and serve customers well.
Building the capability of our people is also crucial to ensure effective compliance How we behave forms the character of our company and dictates how behaviour.
RBS has mandatory training modules for all employees to others see us.
RBSs code of conduct, Our Code, reflects our values and improve their understanding of the processes and controls required to applies to everyone who works here.
It is supported by the YES Check: a properly manage key risks.
simple decision-making framework to help our people translate Our Code into their day-to-day roles.
The YES check has been designed to meet Diversity and inclusion the Financial Conduct Authoritys standard of conduct and is underpinned RBSs ambition is to be number one for customer service, trust and by ethical principles.
advocacy in every one of our chosen business areas by 2020, supported by a people commitment to make RBS a great place to work.
Valuing Our Code lets everyone know what to expect of each other, what to do difference is therefore essential for our customers and colleagues.
Our when unsure of a decision, and where to go for advice when needed.
Its inclusion policy standard applies to all our people globally: and our available at rbs.
com about us our values, or without charge, upon strategy for diversity and inclusion sits with the Board and Executive request, by contacting Corporate Governance and Secretariat at the Committee.
telephone number listed on page 516.
Our approach during 2014 15 focuses on building inclusion into all stages Customer performance of the employee lifecycle.
In 2014 we started rolling out bank-wide Our approach to performance management allows us to provide clarity unconscious bias learning for all employees, which will continue across for our people about how their individual contribution links to our 2015.
Weve introduced a gender target to increase the number of ambition, reward the behaviour that supports our values, and hold women in senior roles across RBS.
And we continue to support our individuals to account for behaviour and performance that does not.
In employee-led networks, with membership across RBS at over 15,000 2014 we completed alignment of our approach to performance people.
management across RBS, so that in 2015 there is consistent bank-wide use of our balanced scorecard, People standards, Leadership standards, This year RBS has been recognised for its work on Equality, Diversity and online system.
and Inclusion by retaining our Platinum ranking from Opportunity Now gender for the second year: increasing our ranking from Silver to Gold Simple Organisation for Race for Opportunity race : retaining a position in the Times Top 50 RBS is making steady progress towards building a smaller, simpler Employers for Women for the eighth consecutive year: and improving organisation.
In 2014, we defined clear principles and practices around upon our ranking in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index LGBT.
how the organisation would work, and new role accountabilities for the top 150 roles across the RBS, as part of redesigning our operating Wellbeing model.
Ensuring and supporting the wellbeing of our people is an important responsibility for RBS.
A wide range of health benefits and services is in Weve moved from seven divisions to three customer franchises, place to help them maintain good physical and psychological health, and redesigning our supporting functions and services to remove duplication support them if they do become unwell, including Lifematters, RBSs and unnecessary management layers.
In addition to supporting our Employee Assistance Programme.
We continue to enhance and promote strategic direction, this work has strengthened accountabilities across these services, targeting those issues that we know affect our peoples RBS, with robust governance in place to ensure future organisation ability to bring the best of themselves to work.
In 2014, Lifematters Online designs are in line with these principles, positioning us to respond to activity improved significantly through promotion via road shows, ongoing regulatory requirements.
wellbeing fairs, and internal communications: and the popularity of the Lifematters App, which was launched in late 2013, continued to grow.
In Employee consultation 2014 RBS also signed up to Time to Change: the UKs biggest RBS recognises employee representatives such as trade unions and programme to challenge mental health stigma.
work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
Our European Employee Council provides an opportunity for elected representatives Sustainability and management to discuss developments in RBSs European Sustainability at RBS means building our business around long term operations.
Discussions have continued to take place with employee thinking and support for our customers and the communities in which representatives where appropriate on the progress of our strategic plans.
Our core responsibility is to obey the law and to ensure that our business is built on safe and secure financial foundations, and we have Employee learning and development worked hard in the years since the financial crisis to achieve this position.
RBS maintains a strong commitment to providing all our people with the This underpins everything that RBS does and enables people to run their opportunity to grow through learning and development, which in turn daily lives and businesses.
Our position as a provider of credit supports helps to achieve business objectives and drive excellent customer economic growth and brings wider benefits to society.
98 Report of the directors But our ambition is to go further, to shape the world around us in a Share capital positive way.
We recognise that we still have a long way to go achieve Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31 December 2014 this position across our business.
Sustainability is therefore not just about and movements during the year are shown in Note 26 on the the many responsibilities and obligations that RBS has, but about taking consolidated accounts.
leadership on a broad range of issues that are important to our stakeholders.
During 2014, the company allotted and issued a total of 89 million new ordinary shares of 1 each for the purposes of ensuring 2014 coupon The Sustainable Banking Committee is responsible for overseeing and payments on discretionary hybrid capital securities were partly challenging how management is addressing sustainable banking and neutralised from a Core Tier 1 capital perspective.
The shares were reputation issues, considering the long term interests of all stakeholder allotted to UBS AG at the subscription prices and determined by groups.
reference to the average market prices during the sale periods set out below.
For more information on our approach and progress read the RBS Number of Subscription Share price Sustainability Report, available on rbs.
shares sold price Sale period Gross proceeds on allotment 32.8m 305.329p 27 2 2014 - 2 5 2014 100 million 331.7p Greenhouse gas emissions Disclosures relating to greenhouse gas emissions are included in the 15.5m 328.910p 2 5 2014 3 7 2014 51 million 332.8p Strategic report on page 39.
23.9m 355.890p 1 8 2014- 30 9 2014 85 million 368.2p Going concern RBSs business activities and financial position, the factors likely to affect 16.8m 381.398p 31 10 2014-25 11 2014 64 million 387.1p its future development and performance and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are In addition, the company issued 74 million ordinary shares of 1 each in discussed in the Business review.
The risk factors which could materially connection with employee share schemes.
affect RBSs future results are set out on page 474 to 492.
RBSs regulatory capital resources and significant developments in 2014 and Additional information anticipated future developments are detailed on pages 195 to 215.
The Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the following liquidity and funding section on pages 216 to 230 describes RBSs additional information is required to be disclosed by Part 6 of Schedule 7 funding and liquidity profile, including changes in key metrics, the build up to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and of liquidity reserves and the outlook for 2015.
Having reviewed RBSs forecasts, projections and other relevant The rights and obligations attached to the companys ordinary shares and evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that RBS and the preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of Association, company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or can Accordingly, the financial statements of RBS and of the company have be found at rbs.
been prepared on a going concern basis.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of BBA disclosure code ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person or RBSs 2014 financial statements have been prepared in compliance with by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every holder the principles set out in the Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure of ordinary shares or cumulative preference shares present in person or published by the British Bankers' Association in 2010.
The Code sets out by proxy and entitled to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The The notices of Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify principles are that RBS and other major UK banks will provide high the deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: review and enhance proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to market participants: assess the applicability and relevance of good practice The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.014% of the total recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of voting rights of the company, the remainder being represented by the such guidance: seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement ordinary shares.
disclosures across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited and information that is There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the unaudited.
company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Corporate governance Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA, certain employees of the The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys Details are given in the Corporate governance report on pages 42 to 93. shares.
The Corporate governance report and compliance report pages 94 and 95 form part of this Report of the directors.
99 Report of the directors The rules governing the powers of directors, including in relation to Directors issuing or buying back shares and their appointment are set out in the The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are companys Articles of Association.
It will be proposed at the 2015 Annual shown on pages 46 to 49.
General Meeting that the directors be granted authorities to allot shares under the Companies Act 2006.
The companys Articles of Association Sandy Crombie, Alison Davis, Robert Gillespie, Philip Hampton, Penny may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Hughes, Ross McEwan, Brendan Nelson and Baroness Noakes all shareholders.
served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the financial statements.
A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers of shares while shares are subject to the plans or the terms under which Tony di lorio stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2014. the shares were awarded.
The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference shares are set out in Note 26 on the consolidated accounts.
Phillip Scott stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2014.
Except in relation to the Dividend Access Share, the company is not Morten Friis was appointed to the Board on 10 April 2014. aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no Ewen Stevenson was appointed to the Board on 19 May 2014. persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the company.
On 25 February 2015 the Board approved the appointment of Howard Davies as a non-executive director with effect from the end of June and Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible employees are as Chairman from 1 September 2015. entitled to acquire shares in the company, and shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company All directors of the company are required to stand for election or reas Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of election annually by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and, in participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the election or re-election of the Trustee no vote is registered.
independent directors requires approval by all shareholders and also by independent shareholders.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The Royal Directors interests Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust and The Royal The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares December 2014 are shown on page 86.
None of the directors held an on behalf of RBSs employee share plans.
The voting rights are interest in the loan capital of the company or in the shares or loan capital exercisable by the Trustees, however, in accordance with investor of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company, during the period protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees from 1 January 2014 to 25 February 2015. would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
Directors indemnities In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may be met Act, Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued by through a combination of newly issued shares and shares acquired in the the company to its directors, members of the RBS Executive Committee, market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
PRA FCA Approved Persons and certain directors and or officers of RBS subsidiaries.
A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of RBS or terminate.
All of the companys employee share plans contain pension schemes.
provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on change of control, subject Post balance sheet events where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at There have been no significant events between the year end and the that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
Controlling shareholder In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the company has entered into an agreement with HM Treasury the Controlling Shareholder which is intended to ensure that the Controlling Shareholder complies with the independence provisions set out in the UK Listing Rules.
The company has complied with the independence provisions in the relationship agreement and as far as the company is aware the independence and procurement provisions in the relationship agreement have been complied with in the period by the controlling shareholder.
100 Report of the directors Shareholdings Directors disclosure to auditors The table below shows shareholders that have notified RBS that they Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: hold more than 3% of the total voting rights of the company at 31 December 2014. a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Solicitor For The Affairs of Her % of total Majestys Treasury as Nominee Number of shares % of share class voting rights for Her Majestys Treasury millions held held b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as Ordinary shares 3,964 62.3 62.3 a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information B shares non-voting 51,000 100 - and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
As at 25 February 2015, there were no changes to the shareholdings shown in the table above.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act.
4 In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules the Auditors information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts under LR The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors report with the exception of details of office.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors contracts of significance under LR 9.8.
10 and 11 given in Additional will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As discussed in more detail in the Group Audit Committee report, Political donations following a tender process, EY will be appointed as the companys At the Annual General Meeting in 2014, shareholders gave authority auditors for the financial year ending 31 December 2016, replacing under Part 14 of the Companies Act, for a period of one year, for the Deloitte.
company and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 100,000.
This By order of the Board authorisation was taken as a precaution only, as the company has a longstanding policy of not making political donations or incurring political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.
During 2014, RBS made no political donations, nor incurred any political expenditure in the UK or EU and it is not proposed that RBSs longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Shareholders will Aileen Taylor be asked to renew this authorisation at the Annual General Meeting in Company Secretary 2015.
25 February 2015 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is registered in Scotland No.
SC45551 101 Statement of directors responsibilities This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 336 to 341.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS Regulation European Commission Regulation No 1606 2002 to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the company.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report and Directors report incorporating the Business review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, the directors are of the opinion that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Philip Hampton Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 25 February 2015 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Philip Hampton Ross McEwan Sandy Crombie Ewen Stevenson Alison Davis Morten Friis Robert Gillespie Penny Hughes Brendan Nelson Baroness Noakes 102
