Corporate governance report Our focus is on the long term, supported by a robust and effective governance framework.
Governance framework Schroders Corporate Governance Guidelines set out the expectations and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees and the Directors.
With continuing change in governance best practice and regulatory expectations, the Guidelines and the Groups other core governance documents which include the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of the Board Committees are reviewed regularly.
They are available on our website.
The Groups governance framework was subject to an internal audit during the year.
The findings of this audit reaffirmed the strength of our governance framework, which supports both short and long-term decision making throughout the firm.
The global regulatory and governance environment continues to evolve and while the Board is confident that the Groups governance The Board is responsible for the oversight of the management of the arrangements continue to be effective this will continue to be an area Group and for ensuring high standards of conduct throughout the of focus for the foreseeable future.
In overseeing the business, the Boards focus is on the long term and this focus is supported by a robust and effective governance framework.
In preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board Andrew Beeson and its principal Committees have considered the provisions of the UK Chairman Corporate Governance Code, changes to legislation, regulation and 4 March 2015 best practice corporate reporting and, where appropriate, guidance issued by stakeholder representative bodies.
As one of Europes largest listed asset management companies, Schroders takes its conduct and stewardship responsibilities seriously.
We aim to apply the same high standards of corporate governance as we expect from the companies in which we invest.
This report is intended to give shareholders a clear and Following the acquisitions of Cazenove Capital and STW in 2013, comprehensive picture of the Groups governance arrangements one of our key areas of focus in 2014 was on the integration of these and how they operated during the year.
This included ensuring our culture and values remained constant across the enlarged business.
The report structure is as follows: Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees page 51 : Board effectiveness page 52 : Board focus during 2014 page 52 : Nominations and Audit and Risk Committee reports pages 54 to 59 : Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code pages 60 to 61 : and Ownership, capital structure and voting rights page 62.
50 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees seeks to achieve this through its own decision-making, by delegating The diagram below illustrates the Groups core governance responsibilities to Board Committees and by delegating authority framework, how authority is delegated from the Board and to manage the business to the Chief Executive within the constraints how independent oversight at Board level is organised.
Some decisions can only be taken by the Board, including the Groups overall strategy, significant new business The Board is authorised to manage the business of the Company in activities and the strategy for the management of the Groups accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The full Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board of Association may be amended by special resolution of shareholders, can be found on our website www.
The principal unless the Articles specify otherwise.
The Board is accountable to Board Committees comprise the Nominations Committee, the Audit shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Reports from financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
The Board each of these Committees follow.
Governance framework Board Executive Committees Executive staff Independent oversight Committees Accountable to composed entirely of non-executive shareholders for the creation and Directors delivery of strong, Direct access to the Audit and sustainable Risk Committee performance and long-term Secondary reporting line shareholder value Chief Executive Nominations Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for the management reviewing and reviewing and overseeing financial of the business recommending recommending the reporting, risk and strategic changes to the remuneration strategy management and development composition of for the Group and the internal controls the Board and remuneration policy its Committees for the Directors Group Management Chief Financial General Counsel Committee officer Assists the Responsible for Responsible for the Chief Executive financial management, Groups compliance, in discharging his capital management, legal and governance responsibilities.
human resources, corporate secretariat Functional oversight of risk functions responsibilities and systems of delegated to internal controls individual members Group Capital Group Risk Group Head Global Head of Group Head of Wealth Management Committee Committee of Risk Compliance Internal Audit Audit and Risk Committee Assists the Chief Assists the Chief Identies and quanties Assists the General Provides independent, Financial officer Financial officer risks before and after Counsel in promoting objective assurance Responsible for in the deployment in discharging his mitigation compliance with to management overseeing financial of operating and responsibilities regulatory requirements and to the Audit reporting, risk investment capital in respect of risk and relationships with and Risk Committee management and and controls regulatory authorities in respect of risk internal controls in the management, controls Wealth Management and governance business processes Reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Composed of independent non-executive Directors of Schroder & Co Limited.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Corporate governance report continued Chairmans Committee Details of Board and Committee membership and attendance at In addition to the principal Board Committees, the Chairmans Board and Committee meetings by the members in 2014 are set out Committee, whose membership is comprised of the non-executive below.
Details of Directors experience are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Directors only, provides the Directors with an opportunity to discuss matters without management present.
This is not a formal Committee Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration of the Board.
Members attendance in 2014 Board Committee Committee Committee Andrew Beeson, Responsibilities of the Group Management Committee Chairman 5 5 2 2 The Chief Executive delegates specific responsibilities to members Executive Directors of the Group Management Committee GMC.
They manage the Michael Dobson 5 5 day-to-day operations of the Group and support the Chief Executive Peter Harrison 4 4 in the delivery of his and the Boards objectives.
The GMC meets Richard Keers 5 5 fortnightly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The members Philip Mallinckrodt 5 5 and their areas of responsibility are shown on pages 48 and 49.
Massimo Tosato 5 5 Non-executive Directors Board effectiveness Ashley Almanza 5 5 2 2 5 5 2 2 The Board is committed to operating effectively.
Three important Luc Bertrand 5 5 2 2 3 4 elements which support Board effectiveness are its composition: how Robin Buchanan 5 5 2 2 5 5 2 2 it keeps abreast of developments affecting the business: and how it Lord Howard 5 5 2 2 5 5 4 4 monitors its own performance.
Details of the Boards succession Nichola Pease 5 5 2 2 5 5 2 2 planning arrangements are set out in the Nominations Committee Bruno Schroder 5 5 2 2 report on page 54.
Details of the Boards development arrangements, which include induction, training, ongoing briefing sessions and performance evaluation, are set out opposite.
Board focus during 2014 During the five scheduled Board meetings, the Board considered Our Equities, Fixed Income and Multi-asset businesses: reports from the Chief Executive on the performance of the business, North America: including Investment, Distribution, Wealth Management, Infrastructure Investment performance: and the progress on integration of the two acquisitions made in 2013, The potential impact of political, regulatory and consumer Cazenove Capital and STW: the Chief Financial Officers review of the pressures: Groups financial performance, including investment capital and Technology, the digital world and the impact of the liquidity: and reports on matters considered by the Remuneration, digital revolution: Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees.
Talent, development and succession: Risk matters including the Groups capital requirements One Board meeting was held in Zurich and focused on our Wealth and ICAAP: Management business globally.
The Board also reviewed our Swiss Governance and regulatory developments, including Board asset management business.
effectiveness and our conduct framework: Non-executive Directors fees: During the year, the Board considered the longer-term strategic Entering into a relationship agreement with certain shareholders: and challenges and opportunities for the Group and oversight of The provision of external audit services.
significant parts of the business including: Further information on how Schroders is responding to longer-term growth opportunities is set out on page 10.
52 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Induction training New Directors receive a personalised induction programme to Robin Buchanan and Nichola Pease joined the Remuneration familiarise them with their duties and the Groups businesses, Committee on 1 October 2014.
A tailored induction was provided operations, risks and governance arrangements.
that focused on relevant technical matters including Schroders remuneration policies and plans: remuneration regulations and The Company Secretary develops an induction programme in governance for asset management firms and financial services consultation with the new Director, the Chairman and the Chief companies more broadly: remuneration regulations and governance Executive.
The programme usually involves meeting Board members for UK listed companies: and remuneration disclosure requirements.
and senior members of the management team covering the full spectrum of our business.
In addition, Directors receive information on the Groups strategy, material projects under consideration or which have been considered recently and the Groups history, culture and values.
The induction programme also covers the Directors statutory and regulatory responsibilities.
Briefing sessions for Board members Briefing sessions are held to inform Directors of developments in the management or external advisers.
In 2014, briefings were provided business, the asset management and wealth management industries on our official institutions and Real Estate businesses: how we service and other external factors, including changes to regulation.
The our major clients: and how the Wealth Management service centre in effectiveness of briefing sessions is kept under review and Directors Zurich supports our Wealth Management business globally.
are asked to identify any specific development needs as part of the Board evaluation process.
The sessions are conducted by Board evaluation The 2014 evaluation process was undertaken internally through the use of a questionnaire and discussions between the Chairman and individual Directors.
Luc Bertrand, as Senior Independent Director, led the evaluation of the Chairman at a meeting with the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The key points arising from the evaluation were documented and discussed with the Chairman.
The 2014 evaluation process confirmed that we continued to make progress in addressing the issues identified in previous evaluations, particularly with respect to the use of unstructured discussions outside Board meetings and the enhancement of strategy discussions through more analysis of the external landscape.
Reflecting the Boards approach to long-term thinking, the principal finding from the 2014 evaluation was that Directors were acutely aware of the need to keep focusing on our long-term strategy and in particular the potential impact the external environment might have on our strategy.
Succession at both the executive and non-executive level was also seen as a key area of focus going forward.
The Chairman discussed the findings of the evaluation with the Board at the March 2015 meeting and both of these principal issues will be kept under review throughout the year.
The performance of the Chief Executive in managing the business was considered by the Chairman and the non-executive Directors.
The Chairman provided feedback to the Chief Executive.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Nominations Committee report Our objective is to maintain a Board comprising a diverse range of skills and experience which is able to provide constructive challenge to management.
Committee membership and attendance at Committee meetings during 2014 are shown on page 52.
Details of members experience are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The Chief Executive is usually invited to attend Committee meetings.
Responsibilities The role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the composition of the Board and its Committees and to ensure appropriate succession plans are in place.
Activities Following our review of succession plans and Board skills in 2013, we commenced a search for a new non-executive Director to replace Luc Bertrand, who will step down from the Board at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
We have made good progress with this search.
In 2014 we appointed Peter Harrison to the Board and commenced We have considered a wide range of high quality candidates and we a search for an independent non-executive Director to replace Luc expect to make an appointment by the time Mr Bertrand retires from Bertrand when he steps down from the Board in May 2015.
This was the Board, or shortly thereafter.
In appointing a new non-executive part of our continuing focus on medium-term succession planning Director, our objective will be to maintain a Board comprising a diverse including the structure and composition of the Board.
During the range of skills and experience which is able to provide constructive year the Committee also considered the composition of the Board challenge to management.
Committees and changes were made to the membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also focuses on the executive members of the Board.
Peter Harrison joined Schroders in March 2013 as Head of Equities and was appointed Head of Investment in May 2014.
Reflecting Andrew Beeson the contribution Mr Harrison made during his first year and his Chairman of the Nominations Committee appointment as Head of Investment, the Committee recommended 4 March 2015 he join the Board.
Following his appointment, the Board was no longer The key areas of the Committees work cover: Reviewing the size and composition of the Board and its Committees: The procedure for the appointment of new Directors: Board succession planning including identifying and Developing and recommending appropriate criteria for recommending, for the approval of the Board, candidates Director independence: to fill Board and Committee vacancies: Reviewing the terms of appointment for non-executive Making recommendations to the Board with respect to the role, Directors: and capabilities and time commitment for each appointment, giving due Conducting an annual review of the Committees performance.
consideration to the balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board and the benefits of diversity: 54 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code requirements Annual General Meeting regarding the composition of company boards with five executive The Committee reviewed the Directors standing for election or Directors, five independent non-executive Directors, Bruno Schroder, re-election at the Annual General Meeting, taking into account a non-executive but not deemed independent, and the Chairman who their effectiveness and commitment.
The Committee reviewed the was deemed to be independent on appointment.
The Committee is independence of the non-executive Directors and concluded that all fully aware of this and is confident that the skills, quality and diversity of were independent, other than Bruno Schroder due to his relationship our five independent non-executive Directors ensure that the interests with the principal shareholder group and because he has served on of shareholders are appropriately represented at all times.
Mindful the Board for more than nine years.
With the exception of Lord of the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Howard, all continuing independent non-executive Directors have the benefits of having a Board that is not too large in number to be served less than six years on the Board.
As Lord Howard has served effective, the Committee is considering the longer term structure more than six years with the Company, his proposal for re-election and composition of the Board.
The Committee agreed that all non-executive Directors continued to make an effective contribution The Committee regularly reviews the time commitment required for to the Boards deliberations.
In addition, the Board reviewed actual Directors to discharge their responsibilities effectively and had no or potential conflicts of interest for each Director and all Directors concerns regarding the time commitment of any Director.
Ashley standing for election or re-election are recommended by the Almanza stepped down from the Remuneration Committee but Committee and the Board.
Following changes to the Listing Rules continues to chair the Audit and Risk Committee.
Robin Buchanan which took effect in May 2014, the appointment of independent and Nichola Pease joined the Remuneration Committee.
directors must be approved by a simple majority of all shareholders and by a simple majority of the independent shareholders.
Further Luc Bertrand joined the Board in March 2006.
Having served for nine details are set out in the 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
years he will stand down as a Director and the Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
On the Support recommendation of the Committee, Lord Howard will take on the role The Committee received information and support from management of Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities General Meeting.
The Committee has the right to appoint external advisers and Odgers Berndtson, who are independent of Schroders, have Diversity been used in the search for a new non-executive Director.
The The Board recognises the importance of diversity and that diversity is Group also used Odgers Berndtson for senior management search a wider issue than gender.
Members of the Board should collectively assignments during the year.
No other advisers were engaged by possess the diverse range of skills, expertise, industry knowledge and the Committee.
business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
The Board believes in the value and importance of diversity Evaluating the performance of the Committee throughout the Group and has not considered it appropriate, or in the The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was interests of the Company or its shareholders, to set prescriptive, undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process quantitative diversity targets.
and the findings relating to the Nominations Committee were discussed and reviewed by the Committee.
Fundamental to increasing diversity is the development of a pipeline of talented and diverse employees within the business.
More information on our approach to diversity can be found on page 42 in the Andrew Beeson Corporate responsibility section.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 4 March 2015 The Nominations Committee considers diversity, including the balance of skills, experience, gender and nationality amongst many other factors when reviewing the appointment of new Directors.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Audit and Risk Committee report Schroders control environment is underpinned by a strong, positive combination of culture, standards and systems.
Details of members experience is set out on page 47.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Bruno Schroder attended most meetings.
Other regular attendees who advised the Committee were the Group Financial Controller, the heads of Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and the General Counsel.
Other members of senior management were also invited to attend as appropriate.
Representatives from the Groups auditor, PwC, attended all of the Committees scheduled meetings.
During 2014, two private meetings were held with PwC without management present.
Private meetings were also held with the Chief Financial Officer and the heads of the Compliance, Risk and Internal A significant proportion of the Committees time was spent reviewing Audit functions.
These meetings provided an opportunity for matters the Groups system of risk management and internal control: the to be raised confidentially.
integrity of financial reporting: and the effectiveness of the Groups third and fourth lines of defence, internal and external audit.
Responsibilities and activities The Committee seeks to encourage and safeguard high standards During the year the Committees focus was on the continuing of integrity and conduct, financial reporting, risk management and appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
Its activities cover audit and operational business this included the significant financial judgements taken in 2013, as usual issues and risks as well as emerging and thematic risks.
and the ongoing assessment of risks faced by the business and managements response to these risks.
The principal areas of the Committees work in 2014 are summarised below.
Schroders control environment is underpinned by a strong, positive combination of culture, standards and systems.
This is invaluable in delivering long-term success for clients and shareholders.
Ashley Almanza Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 4 March 2015 The key areas of the Committees work cover: Financial Reporting, Financial Controls and Audit Risk and Internal Controls The content and integrity of financial reporting: The Groups risk and control framework, including The appropriateness of accounting judgements: the Groups whistleblowing procedures: The effectiveness of the external auditors: and The Groups regulatory processes and procedures Recommending to the Board the appointment and its relationships with regulators, including money of external auditors.
laundering officers reports: The Groups internal audit function: and Emerging and thematic risks which may have a material impact on the Groups operations in the future.
56 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Financial Reporting, Financial Controls and Audit The Committee also considers reports from PwC providing an The Committee reviews the half-year and annual results and the independent assessment of financial reporting, an audit opinion on the Annual Report, before recommending them to the Board for approval.
Annual Report and an independent report on the half-year results.
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate In the case of the Annual Report the Committee also considers estimates and judgements, including those in respect of financial whether it can recommend to the Board that the Annual Report and assets, goodwill and intangible assets, consolidation of funds, Accounts when taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable provisions, contingent liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
and whether it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
To During the year, the Committee also received reports from Finance on support the Committee in making this recommendation it assessed the the operation of the controls over the financial reporting process key messages being communicated in the Annual Report and, when including the Groups consolidated accounts and key processes for forming its opinion, the Committee considered the information it had revenue and rebates, expenses and financial assets.
This outlined the received and its discussions throughout the year.
Following its review, financial reporting control framework, including the operation of a the Committee agreed the 2014 Annual Report is representative Group-wide general ledger, consolidation system and preventative of the year and the Annual Report was recommended to the Board and detective controls, and key resources responsible for their for approval.
On revenue, including performance fees, and rebates the Committee discussed enhancements to operational processes and The Committee is required to report to shareholders on the process it findings from PwC in these areas.
Key controls in Finance are subject follows in its review of significant judgemental issues it has considered to external audit as well as being periodically tested by Internal Audit.
These significant issues are set out below: Significant financial judgements and financial reporting for 2014 How these were addressed The key judgements used in determining the provisions and Detailed reports were prepared by Finance, addressing judgemental contingent liabilities where there is uncertainty over the timing issues and estimates which included actual or potential claims against of settlement or amount.
These outlined the assumptions used in determining the level of provisions.
These judgements were considered with See note 19 to the accounts.
management and were also discussed in detail with PwC.
As part of this regular review, the Committee considered the value of the provision made in 2013, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, for the Groups Swiss banks voluntary participation in the US Department of Justice programme that applies industry wide to Swiss banks.
The Committee considered and discussed with management and PwC the work performed to confirm the value of the provision, the main areas of uncertainty and the appropriateness of the related disclosures contained within this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee considers that the judgements made by management in respect of all of the provisions and contingent liabilities are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
Risk of impairment in goodwill and intangible assets acquired The Committee considered reports prepared by Finance that set out through business combinations and exceptional items.
the considerations in assessing potential indicators of impairment and the work performed by management in establishing key assumptions See notes 1 c and 14 to the accounts.
and forming judgements in support of their final conclusions.
The Committees review included specific discussions with management and PwC in relation to the acquisitions made in 2013 and the performance of the acquired business since acquisition.
Having considered the supporting information, the Committee was satisfied with managements conclusions that no impairment was required.
The Committee also considered the continued presentation of exceptional items within a separate column in the consolidated income statement.
This presentation is considered appropriate as it provides a transparent view of certain items and the underlying performance of the business.
For 2014 those exceptional items principally comprise amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred compensation and integration costs arising from the 2013 acquisitions.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Audit and Risk Committee report continued External audit The Committee has delegated authority to management to consider The Committee places great importance on the quality and and approve the provision of permitted non-audit services by the effectiveness of the external audit process.
auditor with a value for each engagement below 100,000.
Any engagement at or above this level or where total fees for non-audit Each year, at the conclusion of the audit, the Committee evaluates the services are expected to exceed certain thresholds, requires prior performance of the external auditors.
This includes an assessment approval from the Chairman of the Committee.
In addition, the through a questionnaire completed by Directors and senior Committee approves all proposed taxation services to be provided management across the Group.
In 2014, PwC was assessed on by the external auditor.
Prior to undertaking any non-audit service, independence, effectiveness and cost.
Audit effectiveness is also PwC also completes its own independence confirmation processes assessed throughout the year using a number of measures, including: which are approved by the senior statutory auditor.
To provide the Committee with oversight in this area, it receives six-monthly Reviewing the quality and scope of the proposed audit plan and reports on the non-audit services provided by PwC.
progress against the plan: Responsiveness to changes in our business: During the year the total fees paid to PwC were: Monitoring the independence and transparency of the audit and 2014 2013 m m the auditor: and Audit 2.9 3.0 Reviewing the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Audit-related 0.3 0.2 AQR reports for the Big Four audit firms.
Non-audit related Assurance services 0.6 0.7 There were no significant adverse findings from the 2014 evaluation Tax advisory services 0.4 0.7 and the Committee concluded that PwC continued to provide a high Tax compliance services 0.4 0.5 quality audit.
The assessment of the auditors effectiveness forms Other non-audit services 0.3 1.5 part of the Committees annual consideration of whether the auditors Total non-audit related 1.7 3.4 should be recommended to the Board for reappointment or whether Total 4.9 6.6 the external audit appointment should be subject to tender.
Percentage of audit and audit-related fees to total fees 65% 48% There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
The Committee was satisfied that the quantity and type of non-audit work undertaken did not impair PwCs independence or objectivity PwC, or its predecessor firms, have been the Companys auditors and that their appointments were in the best interests of shareholders since Schroders became a listed company in 1959.
In line with the due to PwCs pre-existing knowledge of the Groups operations and new EU audit regulation requirements the Company will be required practices.
The Groups overall approach is only to use PwC where to replace PwC as statutory auditor by 2020.
This regulation will then there is a strong case to do so in preference to obtaining the services require Schroders to undertake a formal tender process at least every from an alternative supplier.
In anticipation of new regulatory ten years.
The last formal tender process was undertaken in 2012 and restrictions on the use of statutory auditors for non-audit work, the resulted in the reappointment of PwC with a new lead engagement Group has continued to seek to diversify its supplier base, particularly partner.
The lead engagement partner is required to be replaced for human resources and certain tax-related services, to reduce the every five years in accordance with existing regulation and his level of non-audit services fees paid to PwC.
In doing so, firms outside tenure will therefore conclude on completion of the audit of the the Big 4 audit firms have been invited to tender for certain services.
The Committee is also responsible for the policy on the employment In order to help safeguard the independence and objectivity of the of former employees of the external auditors and the policy that auditors, the Committee maintains a policy on the engagement of restricts Finance employees from entering into personal contractual the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
This precludes arrangements with the external auditors.
These policies were reviewed the provision of services that might lead to a conflict of interest and and approved by the Committee during the year.
contains rules regarding the approval of permitted non-audit services.
58 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Risk and internal controls During 2014 we established an independent Audit and Risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of Committee for the Wealth Management business, chaired by an internal controls, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control independent non-executive Director of Schroder & Co. Limited.
systems and for reporting on any significant failing or weaknesses.
The Committee receives reports from the Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee at each meeting and the Chairman The system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate of the Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee will attend the risk of failure to achieve our strategic goals and can only provide a meeting of the Committee at least once each year.
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for Lessons learned from operational events, together with the ongoing reviewing the effectiveness and monitoring of the risk and development of the control functions and general market practice, internal controls framework.
mean there are often matters that are monitored through specific reports and periodic updates.
Where appropriate, these are assessed On behalf of the Board, the Committee carried out the annual against a targeted timescale for delivery.
assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2014, including those related to the financial reporting process.
In The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing addition, the Committee considered the adequacy of the Groups arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns risk management arrangements in the context of the Groups about behaviour or decisions that could indicate potential wrongdoing business and strategy.
In carrying out its assessment the Committee or possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or any other considered reports from the Group Financial Controller and the heads matter relating to the Groups operations.
The Committee also of Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and also from PwC which oversees arrangements for the proportionate and independent enabled an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
controls, and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups arrangements and determined that they continued to be appropriate.
The Committee keeps under review the Groups risk management arrangements and internal controls through quarterly reports.
The Committee also considers emerging and thematic risks that may have a material impact on the Group.
During the year, the Committee Compliance reports describe the status of our relationships and considered information security and the threat posed by cyber-crime: dealings with our principal global regulators and material changes in the implementation of the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act: the regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
The reports a review of the controls environment in Wealth Management: conduct: also outline key compliance issues, and the planning and execution of a review of business critical applications including spreadsheets: and the compliance monitoring programme.
Reports on the compliance how the Group manages regulatory change.
monitoring programme highlight matters arising from reviews of key compliance issues or thematic areas selected on a risk prioritised The Groups overall approach to corporate income tax is reviewed basis, including any recommendations for enhancement of regulatory annually.
In addition to receiving an assessment from management, risk mitigation.
the Groups approach to corporate income tax is discussed with the external auditors.
More details on our approach to corporate income Risk reports set out changes in the level or nature of the risks faced by tax are set out on pages 40 and 98. the Group, developments in risk management and operational events, including significant errors and omissions.
Separate reports allowed The Committee was content with the effectiveness of the Groups the Committee to consider the key risks faced by the Group and processes governing financial and regulatory reporting, its ethical assessments of risk tolerance, as well as the construction, output and standards and its relationships with regulators.
The Committee was stress testing of the ICAAP.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures, which are satisfied with the appropriateness and adequacy of the Groups risk available on our website, were also reviewed by the Committee.
Key management arrangements as well as the supporting risk management topics discussed by the Committee included operational, investment, systems including the risk monitoring processes, internal controls regulatory, legal, counterparty credit, acquisition integration and framework and three lines of defence model.
technology risks, contingent liabilities and internal controls.
Evaluating the performance of the Committee Internal Audit reports review progress against a rolling plan of audits The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was approved by the Committee, and include significant findings from undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process.
The audits and their subsequent remediation, and recommendations specific findings relating to the Audit and Risk Committee were to improve the control environment.
The Committee has authority discussed with the Committee Chairman.
to appoint or remove the Group Head of Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee is accountable for setting the objectives of the Ashley Almanza Group Head of Internal Audit, appraising his performance against Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee those objectives and for recommending his remuneration to the 4 March 2015 Remuneration Committee, with advice from the Chief Executive.
The Committee also has responsibility for approving the Internal Audit budget and being satisfied that the Internal Audit function has appropriate resources and continues to be effective.
The Groups three lines of defence model, as set out on pages 32 and 33, provides an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks faced by the Group.
The model together with the most significant developments in the risk profile of the business and a description of how we control and manage risks are set out on pages 32 to 39.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code shareholder group and because he has served on the Board for more Throughout the year, the Company has applied the main principles than nine years.
No-one other than Committee members is entitled to of the Code.
With the exception of provision B.
1.2 regarding the attend Committee meetings.
composition of the Board, the Company has complied with all the provisions of the Code, as set out below.
2 Appointments to the Board The Nominations Committee, which comprises all the non-executive Copies of the Code can be obtained from the UK Financial Reporting Directors, leads the process for Board appointments and makes Councils website at www.
The Nominations Committee report on page 54 describes the role of the Committee.
The rules providing A: Leadership for the appointment, election, re-election and removal of Directors are A.
1 Role of the Board contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term B.
The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Directors terms of appointment set out that Directors are expected to Guidelines which explain how the Company is directed and controlled commit sufficient time to discharge their duties.
The Board considers through the operation of the Board and its Committees.
The guidelines the time commitments of all Directors standing for election or reare designed to enable the Board and Executive Management to election before making a recommendation to shareholders.
The Board operate within a clear governance framework.
A copy of the guidelines has adopted a policy that does not allow executive Directors normally can be found on our website www.
to take up more than one non-executive directorship.
Non-executive Directors are required to notify the Chairman before taking on any The Board meets formally on a regular basis to review performance additional appointments.
Details of external appointments are set out and strategy against its objectives and there is a clear schedule of on pages 46 and 47. Letters of appointment and service contracts are matters reserved for the Board.
available for shareholders to view at the Companys registered office on business days between the hours of 9 a. m. and 5 p. m. and will be A.
2 Division of responsibilities available at the Annual General Meeting.
The separate roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
4 Development responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
The Details of the Boards approach to development, including induction Board delegates some responsibilities to Board Committees and the and training, are set on page 53. authority to manage the business to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and strategic B.
5 Information and support development of the Group and its businesses.
The Company Secretary ensures that appropriate and timely information is provided to the Board and its Committees and that A.
3 Role of the Chairman there are good information flows between senior management and The Chairman, who was independent on appointment, is responsible non-executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, setting agendas for for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on all meetings, and promoting a culture of openness and constructive governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and debate.
As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, the Chairman services of the Company Secretary and can arrange through him also oversees the Boards succession planning.
to receive professional advice independently of the Company, at the Companys expense.
4 Role of the non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors are expected to monitor and challenge B.
6 Evaluation the performance of management in meeting agreed objectives Details of the Boards approach to the evaluation of its effectiveness while satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information, are set out on page 53. and that financial controls and risk management systems are robust and appropriate.
7 Re-election of Directors The Company has decided that all Directors should retire and stand The non-executive Directors participate fully in open and constructive for re-election by shareholders annually.
All Directors stood for election Board and Committee meetings and their views are actively sought, or re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, other particularly when setting strategy.
During the year the Chairman and than Luc Bertrand, who will retire from the Board on 30 April 2015 at non-executive Directors also met, as the Chairmans Committee, the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, all Directors will stand on two occasions prior to Board meetings.
Matters discussed for election or re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The included strategy, succession planning and feedback from the Notice of Annual General Meeting sets out relevant information to 2013 Board evaluation.
enable shareholders to make an informed decision on the election and re-election of Directors.
1 Composition of the Board C: Accountability The Board believes that it operates most effectively with an appropriate C. 1 Financial and business reporting balance of executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors The Directors statement of responsibilities for the preparation of and Directors who have a connection with the Companys principal the Annual Report and Accounts, which, when taken as a whole, shareholder group.
No individual or group of individuals should be is considered fair, balanced and understandable and as providing in a position to dominate the Boards decision making.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is set out on page 77.
With the appointment of Peter Harrison as an executive Director in The going concern statement can be found on page 63.
The Strategic May 2015 the Boards composition is not compliant with the Code.
report is on pages 2 to 43 and 81 to 91.
The Nominations Committee report on page 54 sets out how the Committee has reviewed the Boards composition and is continuing Ashley Almanza, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and who its search for a new non-executive Director.
Biographies provided on is a chartered accountant and was chief financial officer of BG Group pages 46 and 47 identify the experience that each Director brings to plc until March 2011, is considered by the Board to have recent and the Board.
Bruno Schroder does not meet the test for independence relevant financial experience.
under the Code in view of his relationship with the principal 60 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Board determines the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic goals and maintains sound risk management and internal control systems that are reviewed annually.
The activities of the Audit and Risk Committee, which supports the Board in discharging this responsibility, are set out on page 59.
Key risks that would threaten the business model or future performance, solvency and liquidity together with their mitigations are set out on pages 34 to 39.
Control processes can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and are designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
The responsibilities in respect of risk and internal control do not extend to the Groups joint ventures and associates.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors The Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 56 to 59 describes the responsibilities of the Committee and how it ensures the auditors objectivity, effectiveness and continued independence.
D: Remuneration D. 1 Level and components of remuneration Details on Directors remuneration and how the Company promotes the alignment of interests between Directors, clients and shareholders by linking reward to performance are explained in the Remuneration report on page 64.
D. 2 Procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration The Groups approach to setting remuneration policy is set out in the Remuneration report on page 67.
The current policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
E: Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Board ensures that the Company maintains its relationship with shareholders through a regular programme of presentations and meetings to inform institutional investors, analysts and prospective shareholders, attended by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and other senior executives.
The Company holds in excess of 100 such meetings each year.
Information about significant developments, financial statements and other corporate information is available on our website.
Feedback from shareholders is reported to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as an alternative means of communication with the Board should they have concerns that cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman or executive Directors.
E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to question the Board.
The Chief Executive provides a review of the Groups performance and informs shareholders of the first quarter results.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of Annual General Meeting are available to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors are available to attend the Annual General Meeting and the results of the poll on the resolutions proposed are published on the Companys website as soon after the meeting as practicable.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Ownership, capital structure and voting rights Ownership, capital structure and voting rights At the start of the year there were 56,695,070 non-voting ordinary Schroders has developed under stable ownership for more than 200 shares in issue.
During the year no non-voting ordinary shares were years and has been a public company listed on the London Stock issued and 189,470 non-voting ordinary shares 0.33 per cent.
The Schroder family interests are in shares non-voting ordinary shares in issue at that time were bought back and owned directly or indirectly by trustees of various trusts settled by cancelled.
As at 31 December 2014, 56,505,600 non-voting ordinary family individuals, in shares owned by family individuals, and in shares shares 20 per cent.
of the total issued share capital were in issue, owned by a family charitable trust.
If aggregated, these interests none of which were held in treasury, thereby restoring the ratio of amount to 108,323,711 ordinary shares 47.93 per cent.
of the ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares in issue to 4:1.
These interests include the shares subject to relevant statutory and regulatory disclosures, being shares No further transactions were undertaken between 1 January 2015 held by the trustees, and which are set out in the table below.
and 3 March 2015 inclusive, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Following changes made to the UK Listing Rules in May 2014, companies with a shareholder or shareholders who could, when Under the terms of the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the acting in concert, exercise 30 per cent.
or more of the voting rights Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust, the trustees may vote in of a company at a general meeting, are required to enter into a any way they think fit.
In doing so, they may consider the financial and binding agreement with that shareholder or shareholders.
This is non-financial interests of the beneficiaries and their dependents.
As at intended to ensure that the parties to the agreement comply with 3 March 2015, being the latest practicable date before the publication certain independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules.
of this Annual Report, the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Accordingly, on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust held 11,482,727 ordinary such an agreement the Relationship Agreement with a number shares and 329,291 non-voting ordinary shares respectively.
of shareholders who own or control the ordinary shares and associated voting rights referred to above.
Under the terms of the Restricted Growth Share Plan and the Share Incentive Plan see page 76, shares are held in trust on behalf of plan In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the Board confirms that, participants.
At the participants direction, the trustees can exercise since entering into the Relationship Agreement on 14 November 2014 the voting rights in respect of their share entitlements.
until 31 December 2014: There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares i the Company has complied with the independence provisions save for: included in the Relationship Agreement: and restrictions imposed by laws and regulations: restrictions on the transfer of shares imposed under the Companys ii so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions Articles of Association or under Part 22 of the UK Companies Act included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by 2006, in either case following a failure to supply information required the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and their associates.
to be disclosed following service of a request under section 793 of the UK Companies Act 2006: and The Companys share capital is comprised of ordinary shares of restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee 1 each and non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each.
Both are listed share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders 226,022,400 ordinary shares 80 per cent.
of the total issued share which may restrict the transfer of securities or voting rights.
capital were in issue throughout the year.
The Company has no authority to issue or buy back any ordinary shares.
Each ordinary Substantial shareholdings share carries the right to attend and vote at general meetings of As at 31 December 2014, the Company had received notifications, the Company.
2R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of interests in three per cent.
or more of the voting rights The non-voting ordinary shares were created in 1986 to facilitate the attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the operation of an employee share plan without diluting the voting rights table below.
The non-voting ordinary shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not provide the There had been no changes to these notifications as at the date right to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company and that, of this report.
on a capitalisation issue, they carry the right to receive non-voting No.
of voting rights held % of voting rights ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
Notifier Class of shares indirectly held indirectly 1 Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87 When the non-voting ordinary shares were created the ratio of ordinary 1 Veritas Limited Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28 shares to non-voting ordinary shares was 4:1.
The Company has at 2 Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 times issued non-voting ordinary shares, principally in connection with 2 Fervida Limited Ordinary 40,188,706 17.78 the Groups employee share plans.
The Company has not intended 3 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 15,969,200 7.07 and does not intend to increase the issued non-voting ordinary share 1 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain settlements made capital over the medium term and therefore has, at times, bought back by members of the Schroder family and are party to the Relationship Agreement.
2 The interests of Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are interested as trustees.
Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited are party to the At the 2014 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave approval Relationship Agreement.
for the Company to buy back up to 14,100,000 non-voting ordinary 3 Harris Associates L. P. is not party to the Relationship Agreement.
Shareholders also renewed the Directors authority to issue non-voting ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,000,000 in order to provide the Directors with the flexibility to issue non-voting ordinary shares or to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, non-voting ordinary shares.
Renewal of these authorities will be sought at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The 2015 Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 30 April 2015.
The deadline for appointing a proxy is 11.30 a. m. on 28 April 2015.
62 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014
