Report of the Audit Committee The audit committee comprises the whole board and is chaired There are procedures in place to ensure that: by James MacLeod.
Ian Hunter was appointed to the audit all transactions are accounted for accurately and reported committee in December 2014. fully to the board: management observes the authorisation limits set by The audit committee has written terms of reference which the board: are shown on the companys website.
Its duties include risk there is clear segregation of duties so that no investment assessment, reviewing internal controls, the companys transaction can be completed by one person: accounting policies, financial statements prior to their control activities are regularly checked: and release and the companys procedures on whistleblowing.
legal and regulatory obligations are met.
The committee is also responsible for all aspects of the companys relationship with its external auditor including: The committee recognises that such systems can only provide reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance against material the auditors remuneration: misstatement or loss.
the terms of engagement: and the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditor.
Significant Issues The committee considers the risks that may have an impact Annual Report on the companys financial statements.
The audit committee reviews the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable.
The valuation and ownership of the companys investments are risks.
Investments are valued in accordance with the accounting policy on page 30.
The prices of all investments are agreed with Internal Controls an independent source and the ownership of each investment The company does not have an internal audit function as the agreed through confirmation received from the companys audit committee believes that the companys straightforward independent global custodian, Northern Trust.
structure and small number of employees do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the committee annually.
The incomplete or inaccurate recognition of income in the financial statements are also risks.
Internal control systems, The committee is responsible for ensuring that the company including frequent reconciliations, are in place to ensure income has in place an effective system of internal controls designed is fully accounted for.
The board is provided with information on to maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard the companys income account at each meeting.
The committee has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Auditor risks the company faces.
Assessment The companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed in 2002.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, The committee reviews annually the services provided and the committee reviews the effectiveness of the companys the related fees.
The corporate governance provisions relating system of internal control at six-monthly intervals.
to audit tenure have been reviewed and the committee is of the opinion there is no need to conduct a competitive tender at The committees monitoring covers all controls, including the present time.
The fees for audit and non-audit services are financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk 28,000 2013: 27,000 and 19,000 2013: 17,000 respectively.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from These are shown in more detail in Note 2 on page 31. management and considering whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether The audit committee reviews and approves any non-audit any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or require services provided by the auditor and assesses the impact of any more extensive monitoring.
During the course of its review of non-audit work on the ability of the auditor to remain independent.
the system of internal control, the committee has not identified, nor been advised of, any material failings or weaknesses.
Partner rotation Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has The audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated not been considered appropriate.
David Claxton, the current audit partner, was appointed five years ago.
He will be succeeded for the 2015 audit by Andrew Partridge.
Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19 Report of the Audit Committee continued Independence The committee has satisfied itself of the continuing independence of Deloitte LLP.
The committee confirms the level of non-audit work undertaken does not compromise independence.
Re-appointment of auditor A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditor, and to authorise the directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditor It is the companys policy to allow the auditor unlimited access to its records.
The directors confirm that, so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware and they have taken all the steps which they should have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
James MacLeod Director 12 December 2014 20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014
