Report of the Nominations Committee Appointment of NonExecutive Director Dear Shareholder In relation to the appointment to the Board of Ceri Powell, Executive Vice President for Exploration of Royal Dutch Shell, the Nominations I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the Nominations Committee used the services of executive recruitment consultants, Committee.
Following the succession related changes to the leadership The Lygon Group.
The Lygon Group has no connections to the of the Board discussed below and my appointment as Chairman of the Company other than the provision of services in relation to searches Company, I was delighted to be appointed Chairman of the Nomination for new Non-Executive Directors.
The Lygon Group has adopted the Committee in succession to Philip Rogerson, who retired from the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms which, inter Board in May 2014.
Vanda Murray also retired from the Board and the alia, is designed to improve gender balance on Boards.
Committee in May 2014 and I would like thank both Philip and Vanda for their contribution to the Committees work over the years.
The Nominations Committee evaluated the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and, based on this In addition, Ceri Powell, who joined the Board as a Non-Executive assessment, prepared a description of the key skills and expertise required.
Director in April 2014, was also appointed to the Committee at that Details of potential candidates were provided by the consultants and time.
We welcome Ceri and the experience and skills that she brings initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings with selected candidates were then held with the Directors.
Subsequently, the Nominations Committee met to recommend Dr Powells This report provides a summary of the Committees work during appointment, which was then proposed to the Board for approval.
I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the Committee at the AGM on 6 May 2015.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and subject to annual re-election.
Written terms and conditions in relation to the Membership and attendance at meetings held during the year appointment of all Non-Executive Directors will be available at the 2015 ended 31 December 2014 AGM and can be inspected at the Companys registered office, Carillion Meeting attendance Meeting attendance House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR.
Fees payable to 2014 2013 Non-Executive Directors are discussed in the Remuneration report on Appointed Eligible Eligible pages 52 to 68.
Member retired Attended to attend Attended to attend Philip Green Board diversity Chairman from 08.05.14 01.06.11 3 3 3 3 The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the Philip Rogerson 01.10.04 composition of the Board to ensure that it continues to represent Chairman until 07.05.14 07.05.14 2 2 2 3 the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience, independence Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 3 3 3 3 and diversity to support the future delivery of the Groups strategy.
Alison Horner 01.12.13 2 3 1 1 The Committee recognises the importance of gender diversity Richard Howson 10.12.09 3 3 3 3 throughout the Group.
Steve Mogford 05.09.06 2 3 3 3 Currently, two of the seven Board members are female.
While the Vanda Murray 01.06.05 Committee will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the best 07.05.14 2 2 3 3 people are appointed for the relevant roles, the benefits of greater Ceri Powell 02.04.14 1 1 N A N A diversity are recognised and will continue to be taken into account when considering any particular appointment.
The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes Annual evaluation recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are As part of the overall Board evaluation process, the Committee deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession planning reviewed its performance for 2014 and this confirmed that it continues to ensure that processes and plans are in place with regard to both to be highly effective.
Future priorities highlighted by this evaluation Board and senior appointments.
The Committee continues to be included executive succession and assessment of leadership and chaired by the Chairman of the Company and its membership includes organisational ability and the skills, experience and competencies the independent Non-Executive Directors plus the Group Chief required of the next Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Group Human Resources Director attends certain meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
com investors or on request from the Company Secretary.
The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
Implementation of Board succession The Boards succession plans worked well in 2014.
Our Chairman Philip Green from May 2005, Philip Rogerson stood down in 2014.
Vanda Murray Chairman who joined the Board in 2005 and was Chairman of the Remuneration 4 March 2015 Committee also retired from the Board in 2014.
These changes enabled the Board to refresh the leadership of three of its four existing Committees.
In addition to my appointment as Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I was also appointed as Chairman of the Business Integrity Committee and Alison Horner, who was appointed to the Board in December 2013, assumed chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
These changes were largely planned during 2013 and implemented during 2014.
In addition, the Committee led the process that culminated in the appointment of Ceri Powell to the Board in April 2014.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 46
