Report of the Audit Committee Membership and attendance at meetings held during the year Dear Shareholder ended 31 December 2014 I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the Meeting attendance Meeting attendance 2014 2013 financial year ended 31 December 2014.
During 2014, the Committee Appointed Eligible Eligible has continued to review and report to the Board on the Groups Member retired Attended to attend Attended to attend financial reporting, internal control and risk management processes Andrew Dougal and the performance, independence and effectiveness of the auditor, Chairman 03.10.11 4 4 4 4 KPMG LLP.
This report describes the Committees major areas of Philip Green 01.06.11 1 1 4 4 focus since my last report in March 2014.
07.05.14 During 2014, there were a number of changes to the composition of Alison Horner 01.12.13 4 4 1 1 the Committee resulting from changes in Board membership.
In April, Steve Mogford 05.09.06 3 4 3 4 I was very pleased to welcome Ceri Powell to the Committee.
Ceri Vanda Murray 01.06.05 1 1 4 4 brings with her a huge amount of international operational experience, 07.05.14 which complements the skills and experience offered by the existing Ceri Powell 02.04.14 3 3 N A N A members of the Committee.
In May, Philip Green stepped down from the Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Board, To ensure compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate as did Vanda Murray following her retirement from the Board.
I would Governance Code, Committee membership is limited to Independent like to thank both Philip and Vanda for their valuable contributions over Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
We also have in attendance at the years.
meetings, by invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, Executive Directors, the Group Financial Controller, representatives of both the external auditors I am a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland KPMG LLP and the internal auditors Deloitte LLP and the Group Head and previously served as Group Finance Director with a FTSE 100 of Risk.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external and business.
In addition, I continue to chair one other plc audit committee, internal auditors.
I am a member of two others and a member of the Council and the Oversight Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information This provides the Board with the confidence that the Committee necessary to fulfil its duties, call any member of staff to be questioned at a continues to meet the UK Corporate Governance Codes requirement meeting of the Committee, as and when required, and obtain independent in relation to recent and relevant financial experience.
legal, accounting or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties.
The assurance framework required by the Audit Committee is provided by complementary contributions from management reports, internal Main activities of the Audit Committee in relation to the year and external audit reports and from risk management reports.
ended 31 December 2014 As summarised above, the Committee met on four occasions in I continue to hold regular meetings with both the Companys external 2014.
The table below summarises the agenda items covered at the and internal auditors, Richard Adam, the Group Finance Director and Committees meetings held during 2014.
Robin Herzberg, the Group Head of Risk, in which key issues relevant to the Committees work are discussed.
In addition, I and my colleagues Feb June August Dec on the Committee visit contract operations in both the support services Financial reporting and significant and construction areas of the business in order to maintain a more financial judgements detailed understanding of the Groups businesses, which together with the reports we receive, facilitate the ongoing effective operation of Full-year results and associated announcements the Committee.
Half-year results and associated announcements Going concern report In order to ensure ongoing compliance with regulatory developments, External audit the Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually.
In 2014, Review and consideration of the Audit the Committees terms of reference were updated to reflect new Memorandum requirements being introduced under The UK Corporate Governance Board representation letter Code September 2014, which becomes effective for accounting Evaluation of audit function periods beginning after 1 October 2014.
The main changes have resulted in an extension of the Committees responsibilities in relation Auditor re-appointment recommendation to the assessment of the appropriateness of the adoption of the going to the Board concern basis by the Company, the need to undertake a robust Fees for non-statutory audit activities assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, the requirement Audit plan to provide a prospects or viability statement for the Company and a Year end audit plan update requirement to monitor the Companys risk management and internal Committee meeting with auditor control systems and review their effectiveness, on, all of which it Internal audit reports to the Board accordingly.
Audit report I believe that the Committee is well placed to deal with these additional Evaluation of audit function requirements for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2015.
The Audit plan updated terms of reference can be viewed at www.
com Peer review plan or a copy obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Committee meeting with internal audit Other Annual review of terms of reference Annual evaluation of the Committee Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules In addition to the above, at its meeting in February 2015, the Committee reviewed the Groups financial statements and other relevant disclosures relating to this 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 48 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Financial reporting and significant judgements External audit process The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether suitable During 2014, KPMG LLP KPMG acted as the Companys auditor accounting policies have been adopted and whether management and provided certain non-audit services to the Group.
KPMG Audit Plc has made appropriate estimates and judgements in the preparation resigned as auditor on 13 March 2014 pursuant to section 516 of the of the financial statements.
The Committee also keeps under review Companies Act 2006.
On 13 May 2014 the Directors appointed KPMG the impact of any actual or expected changes to accounting standards as auditor of the Company to fill the casual vacancy under section 485 3 applicable to the Group and provides general oversight in relation to of the Companies Act 2006.
KPMG has indicated its willingness to the financial policies of the Group.
continue in office and a resolution to reappoint KPMG as auditor will be proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Group reported revenue of 4,071.9 million 2013: 4,080.9 million and an underlying profit before tax of 172.9 million 2013: 174.7 million Following the publication of our 2013 results, Peter Meehan became for the year ended 31 December 2014.
In August, the Committee reviewed the new Group Audit Partner in succession to Darren Turner.
This the Groups half-year results and discussed these with the external ensured compliance with KPMGs and the professions ethical standards auditor prior to their release.
In February 2015, the Committee reviewed on independence.
Before completely relinquishing his responsibilities the Groups 2014 Annual Report and Accounts to ensure compliance in relation to the Groups audit, Mr Turner attended the Companys AGM with statutory and other regulatory requirements and discussed any in May 2014.
Mr Meehan and members of his team attended each of the significant financial reporting issues or areas of judgement with the Committees meetings during 2014.
As Chairman of the Committee, external auditor.
In respect of the financial statements for the year ended I also maintain contact with the Group Audit Partner.
31 December 2014, the significant issues reviewed and how these issues were addressed are summarised below: The scope of the Groups 2014 audit was discussed and approved by the Committee in June 2014.
Proposed audit fees for 2014 were also Revenue and margin recognition reviewed by the Committee prior to their recommendation to the Board Given the nature of the Groups activities, revenue and margin for approval.
KPMG are expected to report to the Committee on any recognition continues to be a key area of judgement for management.
material issues identified in relation to the Groups reported performance Note 32 on page 114 of the financial statements describes the estimation or any significant breakdown in controls identified during the audit techniques used by management to determine the amount of revenue process.
The 2014 audit plan was completed in line with the scope agreed and costs to be recognised in relation to construction and services by the Committee with no significant issues being highlighted for the contracts.
A significant proportion of the Committees time is spent Committees attention.
reviewing contract judgements given the Companys extensive portfolio of contracts.
During 2014, the Committee reviewed, through discussions External auditor effectiveness with management and the external auditor, the positions and judgements In February 2015, the Committee undertook its annual review of the taken by management on a number of material contracts across the external auditors effectiveness.
This review was based on feedback Group.
On the basis of these discussions, the Committee concluded that received from the Committee members and the Executive Directors.
the positions and judgements taken in relation to the contracts reviewed This review confirmed that KPMG continued be highly effective in its were reasonable.
The Committee has also continued to monitor the role as external auditor to the Group with an overall approval rating management of cash flows and working capital as these are key areas of 4.9 out of 5.0.
The Groups finance function also obtains feedback of importance in relation to the Groups financial performance.
from the operating units and holds a two-way feedback session, which is designed to highlight the key strengths of the current process and Valuation of goodwill potential areas for future improvement.
This session confirmed that the At 31 December 2014, the Group had 1,519.1 million 2013: 1,449.7 million audit continues to be undertaken in an efficient manner.
In addition, the of goodwill, being the largest single item included in its balance sheet.
Committee received and discussed with the Group Audit Partner the Goodwill note 11 on page 94 of the financial statements describes the findings from the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review estimation techniques used by management to assess whether there teams review of KPMGs work in relation to the financial year ended has been an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill and other 31 December 2013.
The review teams findings supported the Committees intangible assets.
The Committee considered and critically reviewed view that KPMG continues to be effective in its role as auditor to the the assumptions used in managements impairment calculations and Group.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board considered the views of the external auditor on this issue.
This included the re-appointment of KPMG as auditor and for this to be put to a review of the sensitivity analysis undertaken by management and the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
On the basis of this review, the Committee agreed with management that no impairment to goodwill was necessary.
Auditor independence and nonaudit services During 2014, KPMG continued to provide certain non-audit services to Adoption of the going concern basis the Group.
The Committee maintains under review the level and scope of Prior to the publication of both the half and the full-year results non-audit work awarded to KPMG to ensure that any services provided for the Group, the Committee undertook a detailed assessment of the are within the constraints of the Audit Practices Boards Ethical Standards appropriateness of the adoption by the Group of the going concern on Auditing and that the level of fees attached to these services is not basis in the preparation of its financial statements.
Information sufficiently material such that it could be perceived to impact the auditors considered to support the ongoing adoption of the going concern independence and objectivity.
basis and the Committees conclusion supporting this is set out in the Performance and financial review on page 36.
Non-audit engagements awarded to KPMG continue to be subject to strict controls agreed by the Audit Committee.
In summary, the Group External audit Finance Director is required to give prior approval of non-audit work The Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and results of carried out by KPMG and its associates in excess of a predetermined the Groups external audit process and its effectiveness.
In addition, any such work incurring fees in excess of the Committee continued to monitor the independence and objectivity 250,000 is discussed with me prior to its commencement.
These of the external auditors to ensure that the services provided continued measures are designed to ensure that other potential providers of to represent a healthy balance between objectivity and value for the services required have been adequately considered.
In addition, in the interests of efficiency and effectiveness, the Committee also ensured that activities undertaken by the internal Non-audit services provided during 2014 related to tax advisory and external audit functions complemented each other.
and compliance work towards the provision of regulatory reports in relation to a potential transaction.
Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG can be found in note 3 on page 89.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Report of the Audit Committee continued Nonaudit fees 2014 Internal audit The Groups internal audit function is currently outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the role and Total fees 1.6m effectiveness of the internal audit function by monitoring the results of Audit fees 1.3m or 81% of total its work and the responses of management to its recommendations.
Non-audit fees 0.3m or 19% of total In the interests of increased efficiency and effectiveness, the Committee also ensures that the work undertaken by the internal audit function complements the scope agreed for the external audit.
The Committee reviewed and approved the 2014 internal audit plan at its meeting in December 2013 and continued to monitor progress against this plan during the year.
Results and management actions arising from the reviews undertaken in 2014 were discussed in detail at each of the Committees meetings.
The Head of Internal Audit attended all of the Committees meetings during 2014 and held discussions with the Committee in the absence of Executive management.
In December Nonaudit fees 2013 2014, the Committee undertook an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal audit function with reference to robustness of audits, quality of delivery and quality of people and service.
Based on an approval Total fees 1.7m score of 4.8 out of 5.0 it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the internal Audit fees 1.5m or 88% of total audit function.
Non-audit fees 0.2m or 12% of total Risk management and internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Board is also responsible for i determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and, in this regard, the Board maintains risk management and internal control systems and ii determining that the Groups systems for risk management and internal control are appropriate and operating effectively.
As part of its terms of reference, KPMG also has in place strict requirements on rotation with the lead audit the Committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal partner required to rotate off the account after five years and other senior control and risk management systems on behalf of the Board.
team members required to rotate after 10 years on the audit.
In addition, KPMG also provides the Committee with information on the safeguards it Risk management has in place to maintain its independence and objectivity in relation to the Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of provision of non-audit services to the Group.
significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
The Furthermore, at each of its meetings, the Committee holds discussions Group Head of Risk, Robin Herzberg, is responsible for co-ordinating with the auditor, without management being present.
Based on these the reporting of strategic risk issues across the Group, and for oversight safeguards the Committee remains confident of the independence and of risk management and training.
objectivity of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Risk management is embedded into the Groups operational activities with External audit tendering risk registers maintained for each project, business unit and the Group KPMG was appointed as the Companys auditor at its inception in as a whole.
Internal and external risks arising from a variety of sources, 1999.
The Committee has continued to monitor the independence and including control breakdowns, disruption to information systems, objectivity of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process competition, corporate social responsibility, natural catastrophes through a range of measures discussed on page 49. and regulatory requirements are monitored on a continuous basis.
Each business unit has a formal risk co-ordinator each of whom participates in The Committee has also kept under review the regulatory position in a quarterly risk forum chaired by the Group Head of Risk.
Based on the relation to the tendering of the external audit and rotation of the audit output generated at these forums, the Group Head of Risk prepares a firm during 2014.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that summary of the key risks and associated mitigations, which is submitted FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to to the Board on a six-monthly basis.
The Groups risk management tender at least every 10 years or provide an explanation of why it is procedures are reviewed by its Internal Audit function on a periodic basis.
considered not appropriate to do so.
The transitional arrangements Key risks and uncertainties together with the associated mitigating associated with this requirement allow companies to align the timing controls relating to the Groups business are summarised on page 21 of the tender with the cycle for the rotation of the engagement partner.
Furthermore, under an order issued by the UKs Competition and Markets Authority, a tender is required by the year ending 31 December To mitigate further the risks associated with significant new projects, the 2020.
To achieve compliance with these requirements, after taking into Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent account the suggested non-binding transition arrangements under the appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group will tender its audit by the Committee see page 51.
This appraisal ensures that the differentiating year ending 31 December 2019.
Also, under European Union legislation, factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified, thus again after taking into account the associated transition arrangements, maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring that the Group will rotate its audit to a new audit firm by the year ending all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been 31 December 2023. properly identified and considered.
The Audit Committee understands the value associated with a formal tender process and is committed to ensuring compliance with the above statutory and regulatory requirements.
The Committee intends to keep under review the exact timing of a future audit tender, but will comply with the timings noted above.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Internal control and assurance processes Change of outsourced services provider In order to protect the Companys assets, the interests of its During 2014, the Group changed its outsourced provider of payroll, stakeholders and provide mitigation against the risks and uncertainties accounting and information technology services.
The Committee relating to its business, the Company maintains a comprehensive set of monitored this transition with reference to updates from management policies, procedures and controls, including financial, operational and and the internal and external audit functions.
The Committee is satisfied compliance controls.
This section of the report summarises the key that the transition has been effectively managed with all of the service elements of the Groups internal control framework, although it should lines now transitioned across to the new provider.
be noted that the controls summarised below are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and as such they provide reasonable but not Annual evaluation of Committee performance absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
As part of the overall Board evaluation process the Committee reviewed its performance for 2014.
This evaluation considered areas The Groups financial and operating activities are conducted in such as the Committees processes and support, its time management compliance with the procedures, policies and limits set by the Board.
and composition, its effectiveness in reviewing the work undertaken Management has also implemented procedures to ensure timely and by internal and external audit and its effectiveness in reviewing internal accurate reporting of business performance by business units.
Regular control systems, the quality of reporting and management of risk, performance review meetings are held in which senior managers and confirmed that the Committee continues be highly effective in report to the Executive Directors on business performance against undertaking its responsibilities.
Future priorities highlighted by this targets, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings evaluation included assessing the quality of the Carillion system of are presented to the Board.
The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the Confirmation of compliance with Turnbull Guidance sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, including its acquisitions and disposals.
This Committee has delegated authority up risk management procedures noted and discussed in this report, and to specified levels of risk as determined by a risk assessment matrix, reported thereon to the Board.
Based on the Committees report, the beyond which Board approval is required.
Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks both financial and Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and non-financial and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks faced procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for by the Group including joint ventures and overseas businesses.
The commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date guarantees and management accounting as well as for reporting of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed and resolving suspected fraudulent activities.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential Whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party is available.
A monthly report on issues raised on the Whistleblowing hotline and subsequent investigations is compiled by the Whistleblowing and Fraud Committee and forwarded to the Board.
The Board has a policy to prosecute Andrew Dougal individuals found to have defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
Chairman of the Audit Committee To minimise the occurrence of fraud, learning points for management 4 March 2015 are identified and action plans implemented.
The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial information, which includes key performance indicators and a summary of risk.
These key performance indicators are listed in the Strategic report on pages 7 to 9.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by both the Executive Directors and the Committee.
Internal audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the business and reports its findings to management, the Executive Directors and the Committee.
Recommendations to improve the system of control made by internal audit are followed up on a regular basis.
Management has also implemented a system of peer reviews, under which the performance of individual contracts is reviewed by experienced teams from other projects across the business.
Summaries of the peer review reports are provided to, and reviewed by, the Committee.
The Group has also implemented a process of Control Risk SelfAssessment where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in their business areas is appropriate.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
