Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate Governance report Division of responsibilities Leadership A clear division of responsibilities is important for the effective working of the Board and to ensure that no one individual has unfettered power The Board of decision.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive work together The Board as a whole continues to take ownership of effective to provide effective and complementary stewardship.
The roles of the leadership and the long-term success of the Company.
The management Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Non-Executive and governance framework, which the Board has implemented to Director are clearly defined as summarised below.
support the Companys long-term growth objectives, is set out on page 40.
The diverse range of skills and leadership experience offered by the Chairman Non-Executive Directors means that they are well qualified to scrutinise Responsible for the composition and capability of the Board performance, assess the Groups risk management and control Responsible for the effective leadership and governance of the Board processes, provide constructive challenge and to support the Executive Ensures Board and Committee meetings are used effectively by Directors.
Biographical details for each of the Directors together with focusing on key areas and promoting a culture of openness and their Board responsibilities are set out on pages 38 and 39. healthy debate Maintains regular contact with the Group Chief Executive providing The Board has ten scheduled meetings during the year: additional advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive as and meetings are arranged if required.
The Board committee meetings are when appropriate scheduled around the regular Board meetings.
Works with the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary to establish the Boards 12-month rolling agenda In order to facilitate increased understanding of our overseas Leads assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and each Director.
businesses amongst Board members and to provide local employees and management with access to the Board, a board meeting is held Group Chief Executive each year at an overseas operation.
Responsible for providing effective leadership to the Company Identification and analysis of strategic options for growth in Decision making shareholder value Directors are required to attend each Board meeting and meetings Implementation of operating plans and budgets required to deliver of any Committee of which they are a member.
In addition, other the agreed strategy members of the senior management team and the Groups advisers Works closely with the Group Finance Director to ensure that the may, by invitation, attend meetings to address specific agenda items.
Group has in place appropriate capital structure, risk management There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which is and internal control processes reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains current.
Matters reserved Works closely with the Group Finance Director to ensure that for the Board include the items summarised in the table below: the Group maintains effective relationships and communications Risk management, with investors Governance Strategy and direction accountability and control Responsible for delivery of ongoing operational performance against Review of governance Approval of strategy Approval of targets and continuous improvement in performance on safety arrangements and annual budgets financial statements, and sustainability.
Appointments to Authorisation of other updates and removals from acquisition and to market and Senior Independent NonExecutive Director the Board disposal activity recommendations Terms of reference for Review of the internal on dividends Available as the alternative point of contact for shareholders where and membership of control arrangements Approval of authority communication through the Executive Directors or the Chairman may Board committees Affirmation of risk levels, financial and not be appropriate management treasury policies Act as a sounding board for the Chairman and alternate Board contact strategies Review of internal for other Directors where appropriate control and risk Would chair Board meetings in the absence of the Chairman management Leads assessment of the effectiveness of the Chairman.
Approval of Health & Safety policies The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees.
The Chairman maintains contact with the Senior In addition, The Chief Executives Leadership Team CELT meets on Independent Non-Executive Director and the Company Secretary in a monthly basis.
The CELT, led by Richard Howson, is responsible for relation to Board and governance matters.
In addition, the Chairman strategy development, operational and financial management and the holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive executive management of the Groups businesses.
In addition to Mr Directors present at least once a year.
The Senior Independent Howson, the CELT comprises the Group Finance Director, the Managing Non-Executive Director also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors of the Business Units, the Group Development and Strategy Directors without the Chairman present at least once a year.
Director, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary and Director of Legal Services.
The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operate within clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board and any matters outside these limits are referred to the Board for consideration.
Arrangements in relation to Directors indemnification and the management of conflicts are provided in the Directors Report on page 70.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Corporate Governance report continued Appointments to the Board are managed by the Nominations Committee Effectiveness see page 46 for the Nominations Committees 2014 report.
In line with our succession planning, during 2014 there were a number of changes Board composition to the composition of the Board.
Philip Rogerson, the Chairman since The Board and its Committees continue to benefit from an appropriate May 2005, stood down following the 2014 AGM.
Vanda Murray who balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge of the had served on the Board since 2005 and was Chairman of the Company and its business sectors.
At 31 December 2014, the Board Remuneration Committee also retired from the Board in 2014.
Philip comprised two Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
Green, who had been Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate became Chairman.
Alison Horner became Ceri Powell, who joined the Board in 2014, is the Executive Vice President the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Steve Mogford of Exploration at Royal Dutch Shell, a customer of, and supplier to, the was appointed as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
However, Dr Powell has not been and is not expected to be In addition, and as noted above, Ceri Powell was appointed as an involved with any commercial dealings between the Group and Royal Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Consequently, the Board confirms that the Chairman and the Board since 1 January 2014 are summarised in the table below: each of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management under the guidelines set out in the UK Corporate Date of Date of Director Position appointment resignation Governance Code.
Ceri Powell Non-Executive Director 2 April N A Vanda Murray Non-Executive Director N A 7 May 71 per cent of Directors are independent Philip Rogerson Non-Executive Chairman N A 7 May Commitment Independent 71% All Directors are made aware at the time of appointment of the Non-independent 29% time commitment required to discharge their Board and Committee responsibilities effectively.
There is a formal job specification in place for the Chairman.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors will be available at the 2015 AGM and can, at other times, be inspected at the Companys registered office, Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR.
Recognising that external appointments can broaden experience and knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited number of such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
In addition to his role as Group Finance Director, Richard Adam was 29 per cent of Directors are female appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Countrywide Plc in 2014.
This appointment was discussed and agreed with the Chairman prior to its acceptance by Richard Adam.
Richard Howson does not hold any Male 71% external appointments.
Female 29% The Board is aware of current external commitments for all of the Non-Executive Directors who are also required to discuss any additions to these with the Chairman prior to their acceptance of any further external appointments.
Changes to the external commitments of the Non-Executive Directors during 2014 are summarised in the table below.
Director 2014 changes to external commitments Andrew Dougal None Philip Green Stood down as Chairman and a Director of Clarkson plc on 9 May.
Appointed a Director of Saga plc on 29 May 57 per cent of NonExecutive Directors have been in role for less Alison Horner None than four years Steve Mogford None Ceri Powell None 1-4 years 57% 5-9 years 43% In addition, Andrew Dougal was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Victrex plc with effect from 1 March 2015.
All Directors were able to allocate sufficient time to their Board responsibilities during 2014 and this is expected to be the case in 2015.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Board meeting attendance Board Committees The number of scheduled Board meetings attended by each Director To ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, the Board together with the number of Board meetings that they were eligible delegates certain matters to its Committees, which are required to attend during 2014 and 2013 is summarised in the table below: to consider these in accordance with their terms of reference.
Occasionally, where it may be more expedient to do so, the Board 2014 2013 may delegate certain of its powers to a sub-committee on an ad-hoc basis.
During 2014, certain matters relating to a potential transaction Member Attendance Eligibility Percentage Attendance Eligibility Percentage were considered by a sub-committee of the Board.
The terms of Richard Adam 10 10 100 10 10 100 reference for each Board Committee are available on the Groups Andrew Dougal 10 10 100 10 10 100 website www.
com investors and summarised in the Philip Green 10 10 100 10 10 100 table below.
Alison Horner 9 10 90 1 1 100 Minimum Committee Richard Howson 10 10 100 10 10 100 number of report for Steve Mogford 10 10 100 10 10 100 Committee Summary of terms of reference meetings 2014 Audit Reviews and reports to the Board 4 See pages Ceri Powell 8 8 100 N A N A N A Chaired by: on the Groups financial reporting 48 to 51 Philip Rogerson 4 4 100 10 10 100 Andrew Dougal to investors, internal controls and Vanda Murray 4 4 100 10 10 100 risk management processes Makes recommendations to the Ceri Powell was appointed to the Board on 2 April 2014.
Board on the appointment or Philip Rogerson and Vanda Murray retired as Directors on 7 May 2014. reappointment of the auditor and monitors the effectiveness This years overseas meeting was held in Doha, Qatar and provided and independence of the external auditor Board members with an opportunity to visit some of our contracts in Directs and reviews the work this country and learn more about our Middle East and North Africa undertaken by the external and strategy from the local leadership team.
Remuneration Reviews and advises the Board 3 See pages Key areas of activity considered at Board meetings during 2014 are Chaired by: on remuneration arrangements 52 to 68 summarised in the table below: Alison Horner for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and their direct reports.
Area of activity Frequency Agenda item Review of 1 Group Chief Executives report on safety and Nominations Makes recommendations on 1 See financial and operational performance, work winning, Chaired by: appointments to the Board and page 46 operational human resources and market development.
Philip Green its Committees performance Reviews the Groups succession 1 Group Finance Directors report on financial arrangements and overall Board performance, liquidity, investor relations, share composition to ensure the price performance and supply chain balance of skills and experience 1 Reports from Major Projects Committee remains appropriate.
1 Reports on sustainability practice Business Reviews and oversees the 2 See and performance Integrity development and implementation page 47 2 Review and approval of latest forecasts Chaired by: of the Groups Ethics and Business and budgets Philip Green Integrity Policy Leadership, 2 Review and approval of the Groups Monitors the Groups compliance governance three-year business plan with relevant legislation such as and strategy 2 Presentations on Group and business the Bribery Act 2010 and the unit strategy Competition Act Monitors the Groups 2 Review and approval of acquisition communication and training and disposal activity programmes on ethics and 2 Review of delegated authorities business integrity.
2 Review of policies such as sustainability, ethics Sustainability Reviews and approves 4 meetings Not and business integrity Committee policies, targets and scheduled applicable 2 Appointment of new Director and Chaired by: performance in relation to in 2015 succession planning Ceri Powell key sustainability initiatives 2 Consideration of reports from the Reviews and approves the Board Committees annual Sustainability Report 2 Evaluation of the Board and its Committees prior to publication Monitors legislation and or 2 Review of any conflicts of interest regulations that might affect the 1 Review of Directors share dealings Group or its stakeholders and Accountability, 2 Review of 2014 half year report and 2013 Annual other matters which could impact control and risk Report and Accounts.
Approval of final dividend corporate reputation and the management for 2013 and half year dividend for 2014. management of any such matters 2 Review of trading updates issued to the market Engage with key internal and 2 Consideration of reports from the Chairman external stakeholders on key of the Audit Committee on internal control and sustainability themes.
2 Consideration of risk management procedures Induction and development and key risks and uncertainties facing the Group Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on Relations with 2 Consideration of matters relating to the AGM joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties shareholders 2 Consideration of feedback from investors received and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all new following release of our results or during routine Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such matters meetings with Board members.
as the operation and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the Companys corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also 1 Standing agenda item for all Board meetings.
briefed by the Companys external advisers, where appropriate, on 2 Item tabled on a periodic basis or as and when necessary.
changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well as receiving briefings from business units throughout the year.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Corporate Governance report continued As part of her induction to the Group, Ceri Powell received or undertook Progress against key priorities identified during the 2013 review the following activities: Priority Update Managing the Chairman Chairman and Non-Executive Director succession A briefing on the responsibilities of a director of a public listed company and Non-Executive was successfully achieved with Philip Green appointed A briefing on Carillions culture, strategy, policies and processes Director rotation as the new Chairman and other changes to the Briefings from senior management and operational leads Board and its Committees concluded in line with succession plans.
Briefings from external advisers such as the corporate brokers Site visits to major projects.
Supporting senior Non-Executive Directors have continued to provide management effective support to the Executive Directors and other management as appropriate.
Addressing specific The Board has continued to work collaboratively business challenges in addressing the challenges and opportunities Carillions comprehensive induction associated with the Groups operations.
Key developments during 2014 are covered in the programme enabled me to understand Strategic report on pages 6 to 26. quickly the corporate culture, operational For the 2014 evaluation, Lintstock initially engaged with the Chairman and reporting structure and the governance and the Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and subsequently reviewed and reported on the performance of environment.
The programme also the Carillion Board and Committees during the year.
Customised reinforced my understanding of the role and assessments, based on anonymous responses to an online survey, were undertaken for the Board as a whole and each of its Committees.
responsibilities of a Non-Executive Director Topics addressed included Board composition, effectiveness of Board of a public company which was very helpful and Committee meetings, Committee structure and performance, strategy, succession, performance monitoring, leadership and culture, as this is my first such appointment.
remuneration, relations with shareholders and accountability.
Ceri Powell The performance of the Chairman and each Director was also reviewed as part of this evaluation process with the anonymity of respondents ensuring an open and frank exchange of views.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director led the evaluation of the Chairmans The Directors are also encouraged to update their skills and knowledge effectiveness.
At the December 2014 Board meeting, the Directors regularly, including in relation to environmental, sustainability and reviewed the results of the evaluation, which confirmed that the Board, governance matters, and a procedure has been established whereby each of its Committees and the Directors continue to be highly effective.
the Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in Some of the key strengths highlighted by the 2014 evaluation included this respect.
In pursuit of best practice, the Board receives presentations the following: the organisation of the Board and Board business is of a on governance and regulatory matters.
The potential requirement for high quality: there are excellent relationships between Directors: the any specific training in the light of new statutory or governance Groups on-boarding for new Non-Executive Directors was rated highly regulations is kept under regular review.
as was the Boards focus on strategy.
Information and support The key priorities for the Board in 2015 were identified as follows: The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group Senior management development and succession as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, markets, Health Senior Independent Non-Executive Director succession & Safety, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Maintaining clarity of financial performance towards attainment of objectives The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
Long-term strategy Prior to each Board or Committee meeting, the Company Secretary Strategy development and delivery ensures that the relevant papers are made available to all Directors five Understanding the potential for change in the UK political environment working days in advance of the meeting.
Since late 2010, the Board has Continued development of the Non-Executive Directors used a secure electronic portal to receive Board papers.
The portal understanding of the business provides information in a timely and secure manner, enabling the Directors Opportunities for growth to receive Board papers quickly and to access them via tablet computers, Management of the Groups pension liabilities.
The Board intends to continue to comply with the UK Corporate All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should be externally to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules facilitated at least every three years.
The Board approves the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Reelection of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
All of the Directors proposed for re-election have been subject to formal performance evaluation and Board and Committee performance evaluation continue to be effective members of the Board.
The Chairman has The Board undertakes a formal review of its effectiveness and that of confirmed that each of the Directors remains committed to the role its Committees on an annual basis, with the evaluation being conducted and to the time required for Board and, where applicable, Committee by an external facilitator every three years.
The 2014 performance meetings and any other duties required of them.
evaluation was conducted by Linstock Limited, an independent corporate advisory firm.
Steve Mogford, who joined the Board in September 2006, will have served nine years on the Board in September 2015 and will be retiring from the Board in 2015 in order to ensure ongoing compliance with the Codes requirements on independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Investors by type Accountability The Board remains committed to ensuring that its communications with 82% shareholders continue to present a fair, balanced and understandable 18% assessment of the Company and its prospects.
Both the Audit Committee and the Board received drafts of the Annual Report and the Institutional Accounts to facilitate review and to provide an opportunity for challenge Private and discussion.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Investors by geography significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Groups business are summarised on page 21 of the Strategic report.
The Board has an 62% Audit Committee which monitors and reports on the Groups risk 10% management systems.
The Audit Committee also considers how the 23% Board should apply corporate reporting and internal control principles and is responsible for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the 5% Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
The 2014 report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 48 to 51.
UK Europe North America Remuneration Rest of the World Details relating to the Companys policy on remuneration together with the level and components of remuneration available to the Companys Directors are provided in the Remuneration Committees report on Investor concentration pages 52 to 68.
45% Dialogue with shareholders The Board is committed to ensuring that we continue to engage 73% effectively with our shareholders to facilitate a mutual understanding 90% of objectives.
Our Group Corporate Affairs Director, who reports to 10% the Group Finance Director, is responsible for managing our investor relations programme.
The Executive Directors and the Director of Percentage of issued share capital held by: Group Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
Top 10 investors Top 30 investors Where appropriate, meetings and requests for information are also Top 100 investors facilitated with other shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Other investors Appropriate governance around disclosure of information is maintained throughout our interaction with shareholders.
The details of these meetings are reported to the Board and, in addition, the Board also receives formal investor feedback provided through the Groups During the year under review, the AGM was held in May 2014 with each corporate brokers following the release of our half year and full year member of the Board in attendance to answer questions.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director AGM and related papers were sent out more than 20 working days are available for meetings with representatives of major shareholders before the meeting.
Separate resolutions were tabled on all substantively as required.
The Groups 2013 Remuneration Report was approved by 95.6 per cent of the votes cast, its 2013 Remuneration Policy was During 2014, we maintained an extensive investor relations programme.
approved by 96 per cent of the votes cast and its 2013 Annual Report In addition to the release of our half-year and full-year results, we released and Accounts were approved by 99.8 per cent of votes cast.
We held some 200 meetings with institutional investors of which around 83 were attended by at least one Executive The Company complies fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Governance Code September 2012 in respect of the notice, content of and Company Secretary have also met with major shareholders and agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of fund managers to discuss governance and other matters.
We intend all the Board Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting to undertake a similar programme during 2015. on 6 May 2015 to respond to shareholders questions.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting AGM The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and encourages their participation.
Shareholders are invited to attend the AGM each year and to ask questions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Business Integrity, Nominations, Remuneration and Sustainability Committees are present at that meeting to answer questions on the work of the Committees.
Philip Green Chairman 4 March 2015 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
