Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Report of the Business Integrity Committee based on ethical values.
Our application for this Charter Mark involved Dear Shareholder a detailed review by IiI of our formal policies and procedures in relation to ethics and integrity.
IiI also tested the application of our policies and I am pleased to present the Business Integrity Committees report for procedures by interviewing a wide range of employees from across the year ended 31 December 2014. the Group.
Following the completion of their assessment, we were delighted when the IBEs Investing in Integrity Board decided to award High standards of ethics and business integrity are essential to Carillion plc its Charter Mark, Investing in Integrity, in August 2014.
The achieving consistently high standards of corporate governance and award covers all of the Groups businesses worldwide and we are one service excellence.
The Board has therefore implemented a formal of the largest companies to have obtained the Charter Mark so far by ethics and business integrity policy to ensure that the Group conducts achieving an overall score of 80 per cent, which is well above the pass its business to the highest ethical standards.
This exercise also helped highlight areas for further improvement which the Committee intends to keep under review as Our ethics and business integrity policy sets out the Groups approach part of its ongoing work.
to a number of compliance or ethical issues and the standards and behaviours that all Carillion employees are expected to meet wherever Integration of John Laing Integrated Services JLIS in the world we operate.
This policy provides guidance in relation to The Group acquired JLIS, a UK-based provider of facilities management areas such as bribery, fraud and corruption, gifts and hospitality, insider services with around 1,100 employees, during the fourth quarter of trading, conflicts of interest, ethical procurement, competition law, 2013.
As part of its integration into the Group and, in addition to making money laundering, human rights and compliance with general laws the online training modules available to all JLIS employees, 115 senior and regulations.
For further details on the Groups Business Integrity managers were provided with face-to-face compliance training on Ethics, Policy see www.
Business Integrity and Competition laws.
Senior managers were then tasked to ensure that the key messages from their training continued The implementation of our ethics and business integrity policy is to be communicated to all employees on a regular basis.
overseen by the Business Integrity Committee, and its effectiveness is reviewed annually by the Board.
Risk assessment across UK Following a number of high-profile compliance failures experienced Membership and attendance at meetings held during the year by UK companies, the Committee instigated a risk assessment to ensure ended 31 December 2014 that the Groups UK businesses were not exposed to similar compliance Meeting attendance Meeting attendance risks.
The results from this assessment did not identify any significant 2014 2013 issues.
However, we have sought to learn from the failures of other Appointed Eligible Eligible companies and we have reinforced our procedures accordingly.
Member retired Attended to attend Attended to attend Philip Green Training Chairman from 08.05.14 01.06.11 2 2 2 3 The Ethics and Compliance Office continued to oversee the delivery Philip Rogerson 01.10.04 of the Groups regular compliance training programme during 2014.
Chairman until 07.05.14 07.05.14 1 1 2 3 The Group provides employees with face-to-face and online training, Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 2 2 3 3 dependent upon role and grade, to ensure that employees are aware Alison Horner 01.12.13 2 2 1 1 of any new developments in Group policy and changes to laws and Steve Mogford 05.09.06 1 2 3 3 regulations.
This programme includes training in competition law, ethics, integrity and bribery and corruption.
During 2014, some 140 employees Vanda Murray 01.06.05 received face-to-face compliance training.
This ongoing refresher 07.05.14 1 1 3 3 training is mandatory for all senior employees who are also required Ceri Powell 02.04.14 1 1 N A N A to complete an online assessment at least once every three years.
The changes to the Committees composition summarised above Key priorities for 2015 resulted from the succession related changes to the Board discussed During 2015, the Committee will continue to monitor the delivery of on page 42.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive and the Group training under the Groups ongoing programme for all senior employees Compliance Officer are invited to attend the Committees meetings.
and new joiners including those joining as part of the recent acquisition The main activities undertaken by the Committee during 2014 are of the Rokstad Power Corporation and ensure that its content remains summarised below.
The Committee will also continue to monitor external legal and regulatory developments and ensure these are Our values implemented across the Group on a timely basis.
In addition, in the To create a culture in which high standards of ethics and integrity are light of changes introduced under the Bribery Act 2010, we plan to natural and instinctive, we promote, encourage and reward behaviours implement ongoing monitoring programmes aimed at joint venture that reflect our core values.
We aim to ensure that our values, which are partners and supply chain members.
described on page 40, are at the heart of everything we do so that they define how we behave towards our colleagues, our customers, our Annual evaluation partners and our suppliers, and how we approach every challenge As part of the overall Board evaluation process, the Committee and opportunity.
reviewed its performance for 2014 which confirmed that it continues be highly effective.
Future priorities highlighted by this evaluation include Ethics and Compliance Office a review of the Groups business ethics and integrity policies against Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010, we established an external benchmarks.
Ethics and Compliance Office in 2010.
This Office reviews and monitors compliance and aims to ensure that the Groups policies and procedures aimed at maintaining high ethical standards remain effective.
The Ethics and Compliance Office reports to the Business Integrity Committee on key global compliance risks and functional activity.
Investing in Integrity In order to benchmark the Groups policies and practices in relation to ethics and integrity, the Committee applied for the Institute of Business Ethics IBE Charter Mark for Investing in Integrity.
Investing in Integrity IiI is a not-for-profit company owned by the IBE and the Philip Green Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment.
IiI is an independent Chairman registered charity which promotes high standards of business practice 4 March 2015 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
