S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 63 63 Report of the Risk Committee Firstly, having assumed the role of Chairman of the Committee at the start of 2014, I would like to thank my predecessor, Mike Power, for his leadership in recent years.
I was also pleased to welcome both Roger Yates and Simon Jeffreys to the Committee during the year.
Fostering a culture of effective risk management is of the utmost importance to the Directors.
The Risk Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and assists the Board in developing this culture, by providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk.
In pursuing these objectives on behalf of the Board, the Committees key activities in 2014 included: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management functions and processes: reviewing the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Chairman of the Group and the Groups risk appetite statement: considering reports produced by the Groups Risk and Compliance functions monitoring the ongoing interaction with Risk Committee the Groups regulators: and receiving presentations from members of senior management Iain Cornish about their business areas and reviewing the management of the associated risks.
Role of the Committee in Summary The following report sets out in more detail the Committees key To foster a culture of effective risk identification and activities in 2014. management throughout the Group: To provide leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk: To review the principal risks affecting the Group and the ways Iain Cornish in which the risks are controlled and mitigated: and On behalf of the Risk Committee To report any material areas of concern to the full Board.
24 February 2015 Risk Committee Members Iain Cornish Chair Simon Jeffreys Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 64 64 Report of the Risk Committee continued As part of their oversight of risk management in the business, the Committee Membership during 2014 Committee continued to receive and review reports from a Iain Cornish was appointed Chair of the Risk Committee and number of Executive Committees and other functions in the Roger Yates joined the Committee on 1 January 2014.
Simon Group including: Jeffreys joined the Committee on 1 April 2014.
All members of minutes of the Risk and Finance Executive Committee the Risk Committee have considerable financial, risk and or other meetings, where executive oversight is given to the experience and are independent Non-executive Directors.
Details appropriateness and observance of the Groups Risk Appetite: of attendance at the meetings of the Risk Committee throughout reports produced by the Compliance and Actuarial functions the year can be found on page 55. relating to the management of the risks faced by the regulated subsidiary entities within the Group: Regular attendees at Committee meetings during the year reports from the Group Risk Director on the effectiveness of included the Chief Executive, the Managing Director responsible the Groups risk management systems: and for the Partnership, the Group Risk Director, the Compliance an annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer, the Corporate Actuary, the Business Development Officer on the activities undertaken to mitigate money Director and a representative from Internal Audit.
As Chairman laundering, bribery and fraud activities within the Group.
of the Board, Sarah Bates also attended Risk Committee meetings on a regular basis.
Since most of the activity within the Group is regulated, the Committee also considered regular updates on the Groups Committee Activities during 2014 ongoing interactions with the PRA and FCA, and the wider Oversight of the Risk Management Framework is key to delivery regulatory interactions with firms in the financial services of the responsibilities of the Committee.
This allowed them to monitor ongoing compliance associated documents are subject to regular review, and in 2014, with regulation.
the Committee has focused on reshaping the framework to reflect the growing complexity of the business, structuring it around the Finally, the Committee requested reports from senior executives risks that impact the key drivers of the business, in particular and external consultants on specific topics, including key those affecting clients, Partners, the Investment Management corporate initiatives.
The Committee spent time discussing Approach, shareholders, regulators and our people.
The management of the associated risks, and provided challenge to the associated Risk Appetite Statements and management information executives responsible.
Many of the topics were presented as joint are being reshaped in line with the revised framework and to sessions with the Audit Committee and allowed members of both reflect the requirements of forthcoming Solvency II regulations.
Committees wider exposure to the management of the Group and This is an evolution of the existing statements and does not an opportunity to challenge senior management.
Presentation involve a fundamental shift in the underlying risk appetite of the topics in 2014 included: Group.
Further information about the Risk Management the work being undertaken to enhance the quality of advice Framework can be found on pages 34 and 35. documentation, including the ongoing supervision arrangements and business checking procedures: The Committee is supported in its oversight of the Risk the Groups position in relation to information security, Management Framework by the Risk Management team and the following an earlier presentation on cyber security from Committee spends a significant proportion of its time receiving external consultants and a report from the Audit Director on updates from the Group Risk Director and the Head of Division an internal audit into this area: Group Risk, who both have direct access to the Chairman of the advice guidelines around the provision of advice to elderly the Risk Committee should the need arise.
The Committee is also and vulnerable clients: able to review and provide challenge on the implementation of the implications of the forthcoming Solvency II legislation, risk mitigation in the business.
including the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA process, the key assumptions underlying the SJPUK ORSA and As in previous years, the Committee regularly received and the Groups preparations for implementation of the new discussed a suite of management information to aid their regulation: monitoring of risks and risk exposure in the business.
The the regulatory impact of structural changes being made in light information included: of the Groups new administration platform, including the Risk Schedules, setting out the principal risks and implications of MiFID II: and uncertainties facing the Group, as well as how they are the findings of an external review into the development of the mitigated: and new administration platform.
Key Risk Indicators KRIs, assessing the current exposure to key risks.
This gave the Committee opportunity to ensure that risks are being addressed and to test that the culture of risk identification During the year, and with the encouragement of the Committee, and management is embedded.
the list of key risks was refreshed.
The Group Board, working actively with Risk Management, contributed to the process of The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and determining the key risks.
authority can be found on the corporate website at www.
