S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 54 54 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Responsibilities & Compliance Governance Board Leadership Your Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership Report and direction to the Company, as well as setting out its strategic aims, visions and values.
It is also responsible for ensuring that adequate controls exist in order to deliver value to shareholders and other stakeholders who derive benefit from our activities.
Make up of the Board and its Committees The Board Biographical details of the Executive and Non-executive Directors Sarah Bates Chairman who make up your Board are set out on pages 50 and 51.
David Bellamy CEO Andrew Croft How have we complied with the UK Corporate Ian Gascoigne Governance Code?
David Lamb Under the FCA Listing Rules, all UK listed companies must state Iain Cornish SID whether they have complied with the provisions of the Simon Jeffreys UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year, Baroness Wheatcroft and where they have not complied, they are required to explain Roger Yates such non-compliance.
The provisions of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Audit Simon Jeffreys Chair The Company reviews its compliance with the Code on an ongoing Iain Cornish basis.
Details of how your Company has complied with the Code Roger Yates throughout the year are set out in this Report.
Particular detail on those principles from the Code which relate to remuneration is set Risk out in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 87.
Iain Cornish Chair Simon Jeffreys Your Board considers that the Company has complied with all of Baroness Wheatcroft the provisions of the 2012 Code during 2014.
Roger Yates Nomination Sarah Bates Chair Iain Cornish Baroness Wheatcroft Remuneration Roger Yates Chair Simon Jeffreys Baroness Wheatcroft Registered No.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ial al S St ta at te em me en nt ts s O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 55 55 How did your Board carry out its work during 2014?
Meetings During the year, seven formal Board meetings were held, and two additional Board Strategy meetings.
Attendance at both Board and Board Committee meetings is set out below.
Board and Committee Attendance in 2014 Member Plc Board Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination i Sarah Bates 7 7 4 4 3 3 ii Vivian Bazalgette 4 4 2 2 3 4 David Bellamy 7 7 iii Iain Cornish 7 7 7 7 5 5 3 3 Andrew Croft 7 7 Ian Gascoigne 7 7 iv Simon Jeffreys 7 7 7 7 4 4 3 5 David Lamb 7 7 Baroness Wheatcroft 7 7 5 5 5 5 2 3 v Roger Yates 6 7 4 5 4 5 3 5 Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that the Board members were eligible to attend.
Footnotes: i Sarah Bates stood down from the Remuneration Committee on 14 May 2014 and Roger Yates was appointed as Chairman in her place.
ii Vivian Bazalgette resigned from the Board on 30 June 2014. iii Iain Cornish took over as Chairman of the Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2014. iv Simon Jeffreys became a member of the Risk Committee on 1 April 2014. v Roger Yates became a member of the Audit Committee on 30 June 2014.
In addition, the Independent Non-executive Directors met without the Executive Directors but with the Chairman twice during the year, and also met once without the Chairman.
Board activities during 2014 A summary of some of the topics considered by the Board during 2014 is set out below and in the Chairmans Report on pages 52 and 53.
Reports on the activities of each of the Board Committees during 2014 are set out on pages 59 to 67.
Strategy and Risk Evaluation During 2014, the Board devoted considerable time to reviewing the medium term strategic direction of the Group to 2020, and more generally the overall strategic appetite of the Group.
Two strategy days provided opportunity to review the existing business model, consider future market developments including competition, and explore a variety of opportunities to enhance the client and Partner offering.
The Board determined that the business focus should remain on careful evolution of our current business model.
A specific opportunity considered by the Board early in the year was the possibility of direct involvement with a private bank.
Following extensive review it was decided not to pursue the initiative at this stage, but instead the Board encouraged exploration of an alternative offering.
This culminated in a new banking proposition for clients being developed in conjunction with Metro Bank.
In the first half of the year, the Board spent time reviewing a potential overseas acquisition, which could be used to expand the geographical range of our activity.
After much careful consideration, approval was given for the acquisition of The Henley Group in Asia.
Oversight of its bedding into the business remains a key focus of the Board and its various Committees.
Discretionary Fund Management was again a topic of discussion during 2014 and remains on the radar.
Presentations about online and digital developments also provided the Board with food for thought and, whilst the Board noted the potential for solutions to aid Partners in providing even more effective service for our clients, it was agreed that the face to face advice proposition remains a key competitive advantage for our business.
The Board continued to develop its thinking about assessing client outcomes.
This is a complex topic with a wide variety of useful information options.
Given the importance of clients to our business, the Board expanded the breadth of client metrics included within the Boards KPI pack.
Risk is a key responsibility of the Board and so the major risks facing the Group were revisited through a Risk Recalibration Process see also the report of the Risk Committee on pages 63 and 64.
A particular area of risk focus for the Board was oversight of the major project to upgrade the Groups back-office administration systems.
This is a very large but vitally important initiative for the Group, which is expected to deliver major benefits for clients, Partners and shareholders.
As part of their engagement with the project the Board spent time with our administration provider, IFDS, in Basildon, and one of the Board meetings in the year was held at our dedicated administration centre in Craigforth.
Progress on this S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 56 56 Corporate Governance Report continued project will continue to be a key topic for the Board during 2015.
In 2014, the Board carried out an internal evaluation of its Finally, the Board also spent time considering the Investment effectiveness.
A questionnaire, drafted by the Chairman and the Management Approach.
Following a review of the oversight of the Company Secretary, was circulated to all members of the Board, process it was agreed that the Investment Committee should seeking their feedback on, amongst other things, whether the Board become a sub-committee of the Executive Board committee, and met its objectives during 2014 and the effectiveness of Board David Lamb was appointed Chair.
processes and those of its Committees.
The Chairman also assessed the individual performance of each member of the Board by way of Governance questionnaire and individual discussions, to consider performance, Throughout the year the Board was very conscious of the pace and establish Board related objectives, as well as training and of change in the regulatory environment.
The Board spent time development needs for 2015.
The Senior Independent Director seeking to understand the opportunities, risks and impacts these carried out a similar process in relation to the Chairman.
This changes created for the Group, but at the heart of the work was a process also enabled the Chairman to review the completion of the desire to understand the regulators agendas, and maintain various actions arising from the Board evaluation carried out in 2013. appropriate relationships with them.
The key findings of the evaluation included the following: The refreshed Board had come together well, with open and The Board also worked to ensure, via its various reporting forums that constructive discussions taking place regarding the Companys the Group complied with all of its obligations and responsibilities under strategy and the key risks faced by the Group: UK company law as well as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In depth discussions around particular topics, together with A specific responsibility is to consider whether the Groups the use of external advisors where appropriate, had been financial reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
As noted helpful and informative: in the Audit Committee report, the Board reviewed the results The two Strategy days had helped the Board to progress and considered they were indeed fair, balanced and various strategic developments currently being considered: understandable, providing the necessary clarity required by The oversight role of the Board was continuing to expand shareholders to sufficiently understand the business.
proportionately with the size and complexity of the Group: Setting aside time at future Board meetings to discuss various In 2014, there was also an internal evaluation of Board membersand issues in more depth, such as investment management, client the performance of the Board generally, which wasparticularly outcomes and the key risks affecting the Group was important: important given that the Board had a new Chairman and two new and Non-executive Directors, as well as no longer having a controlling Further training and development for the Non-executive shareholder in the form of Lloyds Banking Group.
Directors in 2015, to update them on various regulatory andother developments impacting the Group, would beimportant.
People How does your Board Function?
As noted in the Chairmans Report the Board spent considerable time reviewing and improving the Groups succession plans, as well Matters reserved to the Board as ensuring the continued development of senior management.
A The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for key development in the year was the addition of four new members it, but acknowledges that it remains responsible for concentrating of senior management to the Executive Board Committee.
on growing the business successfully and sustainably, whilst encouraging a culture of innovation and continual improvement.
Employee welfare and the maintenance of our culture is taken Matters specifically reserved to your Board include: seriously by the Board and it was pleased to see a high and very Determining the overall Periodically reviewing the results positive response rate to the biannual Employee Engagement strategy of the Company and operations of the Company Survey, details of which can be found on page 11.
All feedback is reviewed by the Board and acted on as appropriate.
Ensuring that the Companys Ensuring that proper accounting operations are well managed records are maintained and A new initiative was started, to consider patterns of female and proper succession plans adequate controls are in place participation in different parts of our community.
This will be are in place to safeguard the assets of the developed further in 2015.
Company from fraud and other significant risks Following the appointment of new Board members and changes in Reviewing major transactions Identifying and managing the a number of members roles, appropriate focus was given to or initiatives proposed by the materialrisks that could impact training for new members and tailored ongoing development for Executive Directors the Companysoperations existing members.
Implementing appropriate Deciding the Companys policy on corporate governance charitable and political donations Board Evaluation procedures The Board undertakes a review of its effectiveness each year, organised by the Chairman.
At least once every three years this is facilitated by an external party.
The next formal external evaluation of the Board will take place in 2015.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ial al S St ta at te em me en nt ts s O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 57 57 Board Committee Structure St. Jamess Place plc Shareholders Matters reserved for Shareholder resolution St. Jamess Place plc Board Chair : Sarah Bates Matters reserved to Board Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee NEDs NEDs Execs NEDs NEDs Chair : Simon Jeffreys Chair : Iain Cornish Chair : David Bellamy Chair : Sarah Bates Chair : Roger Yates Investment Advice Steering Field ExCo Finance ExCo Distribution ExCo Client ExCo Committee Group Chair : Ian Gascoigne Chair : Andrew Croft Chair : Ian Gascoigne Chair : Will Alterman IMA Chair : Ian MacKenzie Chair : David Lamb Transition Solvency II Risk ExCo Oversight Board Steering Committee Development ExCo Investment ExCo Chair : Jonathan Henley Chair :Jonathan Chair : Ian MacKenzie Chair : Chris Ralph McMahon Chair : Ian Gascoigne McMahon The Company also maintains a Board Control Manual which sets Committees out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within There are four Non-executive Committees of the Board: Audit: the Company.
This includes terms of reference for the various Nomination: Remuneration: and Risk.
The membership and Board Committees, as well as the Companys risk policies and terms of reference of each of these Board Committees are risk appetite statement.
Detailed job descriptions for each reviewed annually and are available on the corporate website Executive Director are also included, as well as the general www.
co. uk, or on request from the Company Secretary.
jobdescription which outlines the responsibilities of your Non-executive Directors.
The Board Control Manual is reviewed There is also an Executive Committee, the Executive Board and updated by the Company Secretary on an annual basis.
comprising the Executive Directors of the Board and other members of senior management.
It is via the Executive Board that operational matters are delegated to management.
The Executive Board Organisation Board is responsible for communicating and implementing the The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Groups business plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary Sarah Bates was appointed as Chairman on 1 January 2014.
The resources are in place in order to achieve those objectives, and division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board managing the day-to-day operational activities of the Group.
The and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, are clearly defined and terms of reference for the Executive Board are also regularly documented.
As Chairman, Sarah takes responsibility for the reviewed and are included in the Board Control Manual.
leadership of your Board, ensuring its continued effectiveness, and promoting effective communication between the Executive There are also a number of committees below the main Board and Non-executive Directors, as well as with shareholders committees and these assist the Executive Board in executing its generally.
As Chief Executive, Davids primary responsibility is to responsibilities.
A table showing this governance structure is set manage the Company via the executive management team and out above.
implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director Iain Cornish replaced Sarah Bates as Senior Independent Directorin January 2014.
The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board and confidant for the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Iain also ensures he is available to meet with shareholders and raises any shareholder concerns with the Board that might not be resolved through normal channels.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 58 58 Corporate Governance Report continued Meeting Administration Board Training For each Board meeting, all Board members are supplied with an Induction agenda and pack containing reports and management information An appropriate induction programme is designed to enable new on current trading, operational issues, compliance, risk, Directors to meet senior management, understand the business accounting and financial matters.
The Chairs of the various and future strategy, visit various office locations and speak committees of the Board report to the Board at each Board directly to Partners and staff around the country.
During 2014, meeting and copies of committee meeting minutes are included in the Chairman and the Company Secretary implemented tailored the Board packs.
induction programmes for Simon Jeffreys and Roger Yates, which included visits to the Cirencester head office, an administration Independence centre, an event for new members of the Partnership and When determining whether a Non-executive Director is meetings with various members of senior management.
independent, your Board considers each individual against the criteria set out in the Code and also considers how they conduct Continuing Professional Development themselves in Board meetings, including how they exercise The Chairman and Company Secretary also ensured the continuing judgement and independent thinking.
Taking these factors into professional development for all your Directors, based on their account, the Board believes that all the Non-executive Directors individual requirements, and a list of training carried out during continue to demonstrate their independence.
the year is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Such training includes topical issues, visits to head office and other locations to Culture meet with staff and members of the Partnership and attend The Board exercises oversight over the Companys culture and seminars or other events taking place throughout the year.
In regularly considers how both employees and Partners adhere to it addition to this, ad hoc training is set up in the year to deal with and reviews measures to retain the Groups culture.
The manner individual requests and the Non-executive Directors are able to in which employees and Partners can adhere to the culture is set attend seminars or conferences which they consider will assist them out in a series of Our Approach documents, including The in carrying out their duties.
Non-executive Directors are briefed on Spirit of the Partnership.
the views of major shareholders at Board meetings and are provided with the opportunity to meet with shareholders, asnecessary.
Conflicts of Interest Board members also regularly attend meetings at the head offices Formal procedures are in place to deal with any potential or at Cirencester and in 2014 also visited the administration centre actual conflicts of interest.
The relevant Director must disclose to at Craigforth.
the Board the actual or potential conflict of interest for discussion by the other members of the Board and the Board will then consider the potential conflict on its particular facts, deciding Company Secretariat whether to waive the potential conflict and or impose conditions Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary at on such waiver, if it believes this to be in the best interests of the all times, as well as independent professional advice where needed Company.
In addition to declarations at Board and Committee in order to assist them in carrying out their duties.
meetings, an annual review of the Conflicts of Interest Register is also carried out by the Board.
Relations with Shareholders The Company maintains close relationships with institutional Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings, and meets The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and regularly with the Groups brokers who facilitate meetings with officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as investors and their representatives.
The Chief Financial Officer Directors or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
provides feedback to the Board on any material topics raised in these meetings and Board members also receive copies of the The Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors and latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company, and will Directors of subsidiary companies on terms consistent with the attend shareholder and or analyst meetings from time to time.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act During 2014, the Board received a presentation from one of the 2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the financial Companys joint corporate brokers JPM Cazenove and year ended 31December 2014, and remain in force at the date of commissioned additional reports from shareholder analysis services.
At the start of the year, members of the Remuneration Committee engaged with a selection of shareholders as the Remuneration Policy was being finalised, and the Chairman met with a number of investors during the year.
The Chairman will also be engaging with our major shareholders as part of this reporting process.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available for consultation with shareholders on request.
