S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 59 59 Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to be making my first report of the Audit Committee, having assumed the role of Chairman of the Committee on 1 March 2014.
I succeeded Iain Cornish who has successfully led the Committee for the past two years and who, I am pleased to report, will remain a member of the Committee.
There was one further change to the Committee during the year, when Vivian Bazalgette stepped down on 30 June 2014 and I would like to express my thanks to Vivian for his contribution over the past two years.
Roger Yates became a member in his place and I believe we continue to have sufficient independent Non-executive Directors on the Audit Committee who bring the appropriate balance of recent and relevant financial experience and expertise.
The integrity of the Groups financial results and the effectiveness Chairman of the of its internal control systems are of the utmost importance to your Company, and it is the role of the Audit Committee to assist the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting Audit Committee and those internal controls.
The Committee does this by testing and challenging these areas, and by working closely with Simon Jeffreys management and both external and internal auditors.
The Committee also assists the Board in ensuring that the Companys financial reports provide a fair, balanced and understandable Role of the Committee in Summary assessment of the Companys position.
To be responsible for the accuracy and integrity of the Groups financial statements: The key activities of the Committee in 2014 included reviewing To review the external auditors reports thereon: the annual and half yearly Report and Accounts, associated To monitor the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: announcements and the external auditors reports: monitoring To ensure the effectiveness of the systems of internal control: and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, To review, and where appropriate refer on to the Board, any including engaging with development of the Internal Audit plan significant control failures: and for the year, monitoring progress against this plan and considering To report to the Board on how the Committee has discharged the results of all Internal Audit activity, particularly the major its responsibilities.
areas of internal audit focus during the year.
The Committee also maintained an appropriate relationship with the Companys Audit Committee Members external auditors.
Simon Jeffreys Chair Iain Cornish This report aims to provide more in-depth details of the role of Roger Yates the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken throughout 2014.
Simon Jeffreys On behalf of the Audit Committee 24 February 2015 S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 60 60 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee also spent time considering the use of non-GAAP Committee Membership during 2014 measures in the accounts.
In relation to the introduction of the new Simon Jeffreys joined the Committee on 1 January 2014 and underlying profit measure the Committee considered the range of became Chair from 1 March 2014.
Vivian Bazalgette ceased being adjustments to the GAAP result that might be appropriate and a member on 30 June 2014 and Roger Yates joined the alternative disclosure options.
The approach was also discussed Committee on 1 July 2014. with the Auditors.
However, ultimately the Committee concluded that the additional information would help investors better All members of the Audit Committee throughout the year were understand the business performance.
independent Non-executive Directors and this remains the case at the date of this report.
The Board remains satisfied that all After careful review of how all of these points were represented members of the Audit Committee have the experience and in the Report and Accounts, including the new non-GAAP qualifications to perform their roles, noting in particular that a measure, the Committee concluded that their final treatment majority of members have recent and relevant financial experience wasappropriate.
In relation to the review of the Report and Accounts, as part of Details of attendance at the meetings of the Audit Committee the regular Internal Audit plan, the Companys reporting throughout the year can be found on page 55.
Additional processes were, as usual, the subject of a number of internal attendees at the meetings included the Chairman, the Chief audits, which were designed to complement the external audit, Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Corporate and which were reported to and considered by the Committee in Actuary and other members of the Finance team, as well as its review of the Report and Accounts.
representatives from the external auditors,  LLP.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Group Risk Director both attended the joint meeting of the Internal Audit Function Effectiveness Audit and Risk Committees held in October 2014.
In relation to the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, the Committee spent a significant amount of time reviewing the Internal Audit Plan in order to ensure that the Internal Audit Committee Activities during 2014 department had the necessary resources, both internal and Report and Accounts external, to implement the plan in a timely manner.
As in previous years, the Committee spent a significant amount of time reviewing the annual and half yearly Report and Accounts, As part of an independent review of the internal audit function together with the external auditors reports thereon.
The focus was carried out by Deloitte LLP Deloitte in 2013, a number of particularly on process and control issues, for example, confirming changes had been recommended which were intended to the process of how judgements were made, who wasinvolved and strengthen the profile, resources and operation of the Internal how decisions were implemented.
The topics discussed were driven Audit team and improve its alignment with the Risk functions both by consideration of risk of mis-statement of the accounts, but operating within the Group.
The Committee, which accepted also by consideration of risks in the business.
Topics that received those recommendations in full, has continued to monitor progress dedicated time in the year, both in Committee meetings and in and the various actions from the Deloitte report were completed separate informal sessions, included: in 2014. actuarial assumptions, with a particular focus on persistency rates used in the assessment of the embedded value, which was Internal Audit Activity the topic of additional meetings in December and early During the year, the Committee received regular updates in January 2015: relation to the Internal Audit Plan and results from completed review of principal areas where the Group applies accounting audits.
These audits are risk-based and during 2014 covered areas estimates, including valuation of deferred tax assets and such as: liabilities and impairment testing of other intangible assets.
anti-fraud, bribery and corruption controls: Particular attention was directed to asset judgements in light data security: of experience at Tescos during the year: advice guidance: impact on the business from regulatory and legal risks, governance of outsourced administration by third party including disclosure and accounting for them: administrators, including IFDS: a review of the valuations of assets of the Group: acquisition of Independent Financial Adviser firms: process for extending loans or advances to Partners and Solvency II: and assessing the risk of them being unable to repay: the project to upgrade the Groups back-office administration financial implications and the reporting of disclosures in systems.
relation to the new outsourced administration contract with International Financial Data Services IFDS : and transaction costs and the reporting of disclosures around the acquisition of the Henley Group in Asia, and specifically comparison of the forecast cashflows with the Goodwill assessment.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 61 61 When receiving regular updates from the Director of Internal Fair, Balanced and Understandable Opinion Audit in relation to the results from completed audits, the The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to give Committee paid careful attention to any areas where the audit led their opinion as to whether they consider the Companys Report to remedial action being recommended.
The actions arising were and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
During the monitored to ensure completion.
In practice 85% of actions were course of the year the Audit Committee requested a review of the completed in line with the original agreed deadline, withthe rest KPIs and objectives disclosed in the Report and Accounts to aid being completed by appropriately agreed reviseddeadlines.
the reader to understand the Company.
The review resulted in the development of new measures incorporated in the reporting Internal Control Evaluation for this year end.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, in line To aid the Board, the Audit Committee formally reviewed the with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Report and Accounts in relation to this requirement and was able Group adopts the three lines of defence model as the design basis for to confirm their opinion, based on the activities and information its internal control framework and the process for reviewing the described above, that the Companys Report and Accounts for the effectiveness of the framework is aligned to the same model.
year ended 31 December 2014 are indeed fair, balanced and understandable.
In summary, the Chief Executive has ultimate responsibility for the first two lines of defence and uses his knowledge of the business, and that of External Auditor his senior management team, to provide an opinion on the control The Committee has responsibility for the work of the external systems.
Internal Audit then provides an independent second opinion, auditors of the Company.
At the conclusion of the audit, the from a third line perspective, based on Internal Audit activity Committee discussed the findings from their work under the conducted throughout the year and Internal Audits further analysis and headings of the major risks as set out in the audit plan.
appraisal of the output from a wide range of other sources.
During the year, senior management carried out its annual review In providing his opinion, the Chief Executive was able to take into of the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the account the output of the Control Self-Assessment CSA processes Companys external auditor.
This included consideration of the which had been established in 2013 for a number of departments within findings of the annual review by the FRC of the main auditing the Group and which were subsequently fully embedded and extended firms.
The Committee also took into account the Audit Quality to the rest of the Group during 2014.
The CSA processes continue to Review report on  LLP specifically.
As a be encouraged by the Audit Committee and are delivered alongside, result of this work, the Committee concluded that the audit but independently from, the Internal Audit function.
service of  LLP was fit for purpose and would provide a robust evaluation of the risks underlying the Jointly, the two opinions assist the Audit Committee in completing Companys financial statements.
Following the completion of the its annual review and enable the Audit Committee to attest on 2014 audit, the performance of the auditors will again be behalf of the Board that it has been able to properly review the reviewed, including the use of a questionnaire to be completed by effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in Directors and senior managers asking about the performance of accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on Internal the auditors in relation to expectations.
Where any matters have arisen from the review, the Audit will discuss the results with the auditors as part of the next Committee has ensured that corrective action has been taken.
In relation to the review of the independence of the auditors, the Other Activity Committee noted the existence of a formal policy for the provision Finally, a variety of presentations about the business were received of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The aim of the policy from senior management during the year, including presentations is to ensure that external auditor objectivity and independence on cyber security, Solvency II ORSA and tax valuations on capital is safeguarded by setting out the categories of non-audit services losses.
The Committee also carried out a formal review of the risk which the external auditor is allowed to provide to the Group and schedules, and received updates from the Chair of the Risk limiting the amount of activity.
The financial limit for non-audit Committee, particularly in regard to its reshaping of the risk related advice and consultancy work by the external audit firm is framework, and reports from the Managing Director of St. Jamess 100,000 per year.
Non-audit assignments exceeding 25% of the Place International plc the Groups Irish-registered life company.
audit fee, either individually or cumulatively, must have the prior The Committee carefully considered the proposed changes to the approval of the Audit Committee.
The amounts paid to the external appointment and tenure of external auditors and also explored the auditors during the year for audit and non-audit related services are potential impact of various anticipated changes to IFRS accounting.
set out in the Notes to the Accounts on page 120, but the amount The chair of the Committee acted as the key contact for the for non-audit related services in the year was 5,000 2013: nil.
Whistleblowing Policy and the Committee reviewed the The Committee remains satisfied that  arrangements during the year.
The Committees terms of reference LLP remains independent and objective in relation to its audit were reviewed during the year and it is satisfied that they remain activities carried out for the Group.
appropriate and conform to best practice.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 62 62 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Company is committed to regular rotation of the auditors and, taking into account the EU and CMA rules, will review when the next tender is required during 2015 as well as adopting a policy of tendering the audit contract at least every ten years.
 LLP was appointed as the Companys external auditor in 2009 and in 2014 the lead Audit Partner was rotated.
Since the audit service provided in recent years has been deemed fit for purpose, the Company considers that putting the audit engagement out to tender is not necessary at the current time.
Having assessed the performance and independence of the auditors as outlined above, the Committee recommends that  LLP be re-appointed as external auditor and a resolution to effect this will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate website at www.
