S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 65 65 Report of the Nomination Committee Having the appropriate range of high calibre Directors on our Board is key to achieving success in the Groups strategic objectives, whilst helping to mitigate the regulatory and other risks faced by the Group.
Succession planning is also a core remit of the Committee.
Assessing and developing the talent that lies below the Board is key to maintaining healthy motivational and retention levels amongst senior management, as well as ensuring smooth transition when senior staff move in the Company.
The Committee spent a considerable amount of time over the past year reviewing the short and medium term succession plans for the Executive Directors and for senior management below the Board.
The Committee also considered the training and development arrangements in place to enable future successors to Chairman of the widen their skills and experience.
The Committee also considered whether a new Non-executive Nomination Director should be appointed to replace Vivian Bazalgette, but concluded that, at present, the Board has the right balance of Committee Sarah Bates different skills and experience.
This report provides further details of the role of the Nomination Role of the Committee in Summary Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
To regularly review Board and committee composition and structure: To identify, report on and recommend for Board approval suitable candidates for appointment to the Board: Sarah Bates To appropriately consider succession planning for Directors On behalf of the Nomination Committee and senior management, taking into account diversity, 24 February 2015 experience, knowledge and skills: and To report to the Board on the work of the Committee.
Nomination Committee Members Sarah Bates Chair Iain Cornish Baroness Wheatcroft S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 66 66 Report of the Nomination Committee continued The Committee reviewed the balance of skills and experience on Committee Membership during 2014 the Board in light of the resignation of Vivian Bazalgette in June Sarah Bates joined and became Chair of the Committee 2014.
It was noted that the proportion of the Board excluding the on 1 January 2014 and Baroness Wheatcroft also joined the Chairman that was independent directors was still 50% and so the Committee on the same date.
These appointments followed Board continued to comply with the Corporate Code Charles Gregson and Mike Power ceasing to be members on notwithstanding the resignation of Vivian Bazalgette.
Committee also considered the possibility of setting a 25% target for female representation for the Board in 2015, but shareholders Details of attendance at the meetings of the Nomination will note that the Board is close to satisfying the target at the Committee can be found on page 55. present time and that the Company has a female Chairman.
The Board is concerned to encourage diversity, in the widest sense, but Committee Activities during 2014 after careful consideration, the Committee concluded that the In 2014, the Committee spent the majority of its time reviewing Board had an appropriate balance of skills and expertise at the the succession plans for the Executive Directors and other senior present time and, consequently, there was no pressing need to managers below the Board, so as to ensure a strong pipeline of recruit an additional independent Non-executive Director, male or talent in future years.
The Committee reviewed each senior female.
The Committee will continue to review the independence, management role and, in conjunction with the Chief Executive balance and diversity of the Board on a regular basis.
Officer, identified both short and medium term successors for each role and considered any training or development needs to The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and enable the identified successors to succeed in the relevant role.
authority can be found on the corporate website at www.
The Committee also appointed an experienced external consultant, Boardroom Dialogue, to provide advice and assistance in relation to succession planning.
The Committee continued to monitor diversity within the Group, believing that diversity extends beyond the Boardroom and that developing all members of the senior management team and employees generally is vital in order to develop and maintain an effective succession programme.
It was noted that the Group had introduced a number of new initiatives to develop senior talent below the Board, including bespoke training programmes with development consultants, mentoring opportunities and a programme centred on healthy living and wellbeing.
The Chairman also held a meeting with a number of women in managerial roles within the Group to discuss whether there were any barriers to progression and ways in which their development opportunities could be improved.
