Directors report Corporate governance Audit Committee Who sits on the Audit Committee Scheduled Other attendees at Committee meetings include: meetings: 7 The Audit Committee has continued Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: Group N Kheraj appointed on 1 January 2014 and Chair on 1 May 2014 7 7 Chief Risk officer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Director, Compliance, toevolve as it discharges its broad People and Communication: Group General Counsel: Group Head Legal C M Hodgson appointed on 1 May 2014 4 4 and Compliance: Group Company Secretary: Group statutory auditors.
mandate on behalf of the Board Dr B E Grote appointed on 1 July 2014 3 3 As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee meeting, the R Markland 7 7 Committee has private members-only meetings.
inmatters to do with controls and Dr L H Thunell appointed on 1 April 2014 4 4 The Committee has written terms of reference that can be financial reporting viewed at sc.
They include all of the material points Directors who stepped down during 2014 2015 recommended under the UK Corporate Governance Code M Ewing stepped down on 31 January 2014 0 0 1.
Jamie Dundas was unable to attend the meetings on 6February 2014 and R H P Markham stepped down as member and Chair on 1 May 2014 3 3 25February 2014 due to ill health 1 J F T Dundas stepped down on 1 May 2014 1 3 2.
John Paynter was unable to attend the meetings on 29April 2014 and 16October2014 due to prior business engagements 2 J G H Paynter stepped down on 31 December 2014 5 7 Naguib Kheraj Note: There were no ad hoc Committee meetings in 2014 Chair of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder I can confirm that the information the Committee has received The Committees composition and role while providing quality of service to the Groups clients.
Going has been balanced, appropriate and timely, and has enabled forward, oversight of the FCRMP will be provided by the newly This is my first report as Chair of the Audit Committee, The Committee members have detailed and relevant the Committee to full its remit.
established Board Financial Crime Risk Committee, details of having taken over from Rudy Markham on 1 May 2014. experience.
The Board is satisfied that Christine Hodgson which can be found on page 169. hasrecent relevant financial experience and that all the other The Committees composition continued to evolve in 2014.
Committee members have broad experience and knowledge of Margaret Ewing, Rudy Markham, Jamie Dundas and John Financial reporting financial reporting and international businesses.
Details of their Paynter all stepped down from the Committee.
I would like experience can be found in their biographies on pages 128 to The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial tothank them all for their valuable contribution.
All of the Committees members are independent.
reporting is to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial Christine Hodgson and Byron Grote all joined the Committee statements and any formal announcements relating to the in2014.
Lars has a highly developed understanding of The overlapping membership between the Audit Committee Naguib Kheraj Groups financial performance, reviewing any significant bankingand risk management in a financial services context.
and the Board Risk: Remuneration: Brand, Values and Conduct: Chair of the Audit Committee financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Christine brings strong business leadership, accountancy, and Board Financial Crime Risk Committees is one of the finance and technology experience to the Committee.
Byron mechanisms for ensuring that the linkage between the Audit Group Finance issues detailed instructions and guidance on has broad commercial, financial and international experience.
Committee and the other Board committees avoids gaps or reporting requirements to all reporting entities within the Group Ruth Markland continues as a member of the Committee unnecessary duplications between the remit of each committee.
in advance of each reporting period end.
These are followed andbrings a deep understanding of the legal and regulatory upby an extensive dialogue between Group Finance and the The Committees role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the environment.
Further details of the Committee members reporting units on any new requirements, clarifying understanding Groups internal financial controls, to identify, assess, manage experience can be found on pages 128 to 131. and ensuring consistency in reporting.
Much of the processing and monitor financial risks.
It is also responsible for the and related control activities are carried out in the Groups three oversight, and advice to the Board on matters relating to As in previous years, we have maintained our discursive main processing hubs and this helps drive efficiencies and financial reporting.
In discharging its responsibilities, the styleinreporting, with the intention of continuing to enhance consistency in the control environment.
The interaction between Committee acknowledges and embraces its role of protecting engagement with stakeholders.
In addition to the disclosure country reporting teams and the centralised hubs is subject to a the interests of shareholders.
requirements relating to Audit Committees under the UK rigorous process of evaluation.
Where specialist skills or judgement Corporate Governance Code 2012, the report sets out the Given the Committees role on behalf of the Board for oversight are required, such as credit impairment, financial instrument areas of significant and particular focus for the Committee of internal controls, in 2014, the Committee assumed oversight valuation, goodwill assessment, evaluation of significant legal overthe course of the year.
Such areas have included the of the Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme FCRMP cases and pension-related calculations, centralised teams judgements and the significant issues concerning financial from the Board Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee, manage the activity and work with the relevant country teams.
reporting, issues arising in the Groups control environment and acomprehensive, multi-year, programme designed to review The submission of financial information from each reporting the most significant internal investigations that the Group has many aspects of the Groups existing approach to anti-money entity to Group Finance is subject to certication by the responsible conducted in 2014.
The report also sets out how the Committee laundering and sanctions compliance and to enhance them as in-country financial officer, and analytical review procedures are reached a position whereby it was satisfied that the disclosures appropriate to meet this objective.
A key component of the carried out both in-country and at the Group level.
made in the Annual Report and Accounts meet the test of the FCRMP is the response to the 2012 settlements with the US The Committee received reports from Group Finance on fair, balanced and understandable statement made by the authorities regarding historical sanctions compliance.
This changes in accounting standards and disclosure requirements Board, and how the Committee has satisfied itself as to the component is referred to as the US Supervisory Remediation and on significant accounting issues at each reporting period.
quality of the audit conducted by the Groups statutory auditors Program SRP.
The SRP comprises work streams designed At the Committees request it received a report on the key areas and by its Group Internal Audit function.
toensure compliance with the remediation requirements of the Groups income recognition, which are subject to contained in all of the settlement agreements.
Over the course management estimates and judgement, and related mitigating of 2014, the FCRMP has developed three-year objectives which controls in order to look specically at the appropriateness of have been discussed by the Committee, together with detailed income recognition practices.
The Committee was satisfied that plans to achieve those objectives designed to help the Group to the Groups policies and practices are appropriate.
meet its aspiration to lead the way in combating financial crime, The Committee also received detailed reports from specialist 1.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services functions such as Group Risk, Group Legal and Group Tax.
NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of TheCommittee also receive reports and updates from the Justice DOJ and the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC 150 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 151 Directors report Corporate governance Audit Committee Groups statutory auditor KPMG Audit Plc KPMG.
This year, headroom available is sufficient to support the carrying value.
The Committee scrutinised and discussed the proposed Interaction with regulators KPMG has focused particularly on credit, goodwill and valuation.
changes to the Groups Pillar 3 Disclosure arising from: This view is also supported by the independent perspective of The Committee met with one of the Groups UK lead regulators, The Committee is therefore made aware of all materially relevant KPMG.
The Group undertakes its annual assessment of O The updated disclosure requirements required by the Capital the PRA, to discuss a number of topics, including the issues that have concerned management during the year.
goodwill impairment as at 30 September each year and the Requirements Directive with effect from 1 January 2014 Committees views on the risks associated with the strategic Committee receives a detailed paper outlining the forecasts For the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee paid reorganisation further details can be found on pages 158 and O Consideration of future disclosures in the light of the Basel used for determining cash ows, the basis of the assumptions particular attention to the following issues: 159 : resourcing both within Group Internal Audit and more used including any change from previous years, headroom Committee on Banking Supervision Consultative Document broadly within the Group for regulatory work, asset quality and O Impairment of loans and advances Review of the Pillar 3 disclosure requirements published in availability and sensitivities of the forecasts to reasonably financial crime.
In addition, as Committee Chair, Naguib Kheraj possible changes in assumptions.
Additionally, for each interim June 2014 O Goodwill impairment testing held discussions with the Dubai Financial Services Authority: and year-end reporting date, an update is also provided to the the Deputy Chief Executive, Hong Kong Monetary Authority: O Valuation of financial instruments Committee, in particular for cash generating units CGU where Fair, balanced and understandable 1 theUS Monitor and Senior Deputy Governor of the Korean the goodwill held is either material or more prone to pressure in The Committee has reviewed and monitored the Financial Supervisory Service.
Impairment of loans and advances a stress scenario.
During the past few years and in 2014, the appropriateness and completeness of the published financial Committee focused in particular on the goodwill associated The net charge to the profit and loss account in respect of statements of the Group and any formal announcements Speaking Up Policy with the Korean business, given the challenging market impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk relating to the Groups financial performance, including The Groups Speaking Up Policy allows our employees to raise, environment as reected in the reduction in forecasts used to provisions for the year ended 31 December 2014 is $2,141 million.
significant reporting judgements and estimates made by the determine future cash ows as well as the enhanced sensitivity in confidence, any concerns that they may have about possible Through the year, the Committee requested and received Group.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee has considered, improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other areas.
of these numbers to changes in the discount rate.
As at information on specic names and industries based on its and has satisfied itself, that the processes and procedures in 31 December 2014, management identied a shortfall between Aglobal Speaking Up awareness campaign was successfully assessment of the external environment, developments in footprint place ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a the value in use and the net assets of the Korea CGU and rolled out in 2014.
The information provided to the Committee markets and areas identied in discussions with the Board Risk whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the proposed an impairment of $726 million in respect of the on matters reported allows the Committee to consider whether Committee.
There is some common membership across the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups goodwill associated with it.
This impairment would fully write-off there are any trends across the Groups markets in terms of the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee and this ensures performance, business model and strategy.
all goodwill allocated to the Korea CGU.
type and nature of Speaking Up incidences together with the that, in addition to an assessment of current adequacy of provisions, The statement is underpinned by the Committees, and the resolution and consequences.
the Committee is also afforded a forward-looking view on A small impairment charge of $32 million was also proposed in Boards, belief that the Annual Report and Accounts does not potential risks and their impact.
The Committee also receives respect of the goodwill ascribed to the corporate finance CGU exhibit any bias, that all important elements have been significant investigations and material disputes reports from management at each reporting period, detailing, following the announcement to close the Groups cash equities disclosed and that the descriptions of the Groups business as inter alia, the composition of the loan book, provisioning levels business.
The Committee reviewed the forecasts and the As part of routine reporting to the Committee, the Committee set out in the strategic report are consistent with those used for and cover ratio by client segment, and the judgement exercised assumptions used to derive them and agreed that the proposed has received an overview of the internal investigations referred financial reporting in the Financial statements.
around the individual and portfolio impairment provisions.
In impairment charges were reasonable.
to the Compliance Investigations team in 2014 and summaries 2014, this covered the following key areas: In making its assessment, the Committee applies its of the most significant internal investigations underway.
Going The Committee considered managements proposed accumulated knowledge and experience from Board meetings, forward, those internal investigations that relate to financial crime In Corporate & Institutional Clients and Commercial Clients, impairment against the carrying value of one of the Groups engagement with management throughout the year and from will be reported to the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee.
major individual provisions were assessed for adequacy through associate investments, including the assumptions behind it.
access to management performance and information.
a review of the assumptions underpinning possible recovery Further details can be found in note 11, on page 252, and The Committee has also received summary overviews of Key judgements and the significant issues reported are options and related cash ows.
For certain significant note23, on pages 280 to 282. material disputes and significant cross-border orders facing the consistent with the disclosures of key estimation exposures in the performing book, particularly those graded Group and the action taken to manage them and mitigate risk uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial credit grade 12 and managed by Group Special Assets Valuation of financial instruments arising from them.
statements on page 232 Management, the Committee was briefed on business plans, The judgements in relation to the valuation of financial management assessment of the potential cash ows and Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance When it has been necessary to use specialist terms, these instruments are more subjective in respect of Level 3 assets, have been dened for clarity and consistency in the Glossary collateral available.
Trends in early alert accounts see pages where the value is based on models that use a significant The Committee has reviewed the resourcing and proposed on pages 330 to 333 62 and 63 were shared and the concentration of exposures in degree of non-market-based inputs.
For the Group, the quantum work plans for both the Group Internal Audit and Group certain sectors such as Commodities and geographies such as of such assets is very low: of the $200 billion financial assets Compliance functions, and is satisfied that both are appropriate China and India were analysed in further detail.
Oversight of internal controls held at fair value as at December 2014, only $3.7 billion, or in light of the proposed areas of focus and the expertise and In Retail Clients, where provisions are assessed more on a 1.9 per cent, was Level 3. skill that are required within both functions, given the current The Committee has considered reports in respect of the control collective basis other than for Mortgages, an analysis by regulatory environment.
The Committee is also comfortable with environment in the Groups businesses.
The Committee receives reports at each reporting period, products and geographies was provided with related the independence of the Group Internal Audit function.
detailing the valuation process which is undertaken by a unit The Committee discussed control environment issues, their root delinquency trends.
In respect of Korea, the charge driven by independent of the business, the amounts reserved to cater for In addition to considering the resourcing requirements of the causes and managements responses and remediation activities.
the Personal Debt Restructuring Scheme PDRS was analysed model and projection risks, which cover both Level 2 and Level Group Internal Audit function, the Committee met with the At each scheduled Committee meeting, Group Internal Audit in respect of the unsecured book with an understanding of the 3 assets, and the significant valuation judgements in respect of functions senior leaders.
In addition, over the course of the provides the Committee with its view of the system of internal characteristics of products offered, the industry experience and Level 3 instruments.
year, both the former Committee Chair, Rudy Markham, and the controls across all risk types, business and country functions.
In management response on mitigating actions through more current Committee Chair, Naguib Kheraj, had regular meetings addition, the Committee is provided with an audit issues map stringent underwriting standards.
The Committee also The Committee discussed the proposed disclosure within this with the Group Head of Internal Audit.
which highlights the most significant matters being monitored by continued to gain comfort from the fact that the Retail loan years Annual Report and Accounts arising from: Group Internal Audit and warrant the Committees attention.
book is predominantly secured and the loan-to-value ratio on The Committee monitored and assessed the role and O Amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards the mortgage book remains low at 49.3 per cent.
effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function.
This included Group Internal Audits reporting to the Committee has continued O Alignment to best practice through the application of the monitoring actions from an external benchmarking review to evolve.
During the course of 2014, Group Internal Audit has The Committee has discussed impairment with management British Bankers Association BBA Code for Financial performed in 2013 and reported in 2014 and a review of reported to the Committee on each of the themes incorporated and the auditors and considers the provisions held within each Reporting Disclosure internal Quality Assurance information.
The Committee reviewed into the 2014 audit plan.
As in 2013, Group Internal Audit has of the client segments to be appropriate.
provided a point-in-time assessment against each of these themes.
O Bilateral discussions between the UK Prudential Regulation 1.
Pursuant to the 21 September 2012 Consent Order agreed to by the New York Goodwill impairment testing Authority PRA and the BBA, which inform best practice In addition to reporting to the Audit Committee, Group Internal Department of Financial Services the NYDFS and Standard Chartered Bank SCB, included in the BBA code noted above a compliance monitor was appointed to conduct a comprehensive review of the Audit also provides the Board Risk Committee with a summary The total goodwill carried on the balance sheet as at Bank Secrecy Act Anti-Money Laundering and Ofce of Foreign Assets Control of Group Internal Audits appraisal of controls across key risks O 31 December 2014 is $4,224 million and, based on the review Enhancement of our existing disclosures in relation to the compliance programs, policies and procedures at SCBs New York branch.
subject to the Committees oversight.
Pursuant to the 19 August 2014 Consent Order agreed to by the NYDFS and SCB, of forecasts and assumptions by senior management, the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the compliance monitors term has been extended for two additional years, through Committee considers that, other than as noted below, the the Financial Stability Board January 2017 152 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 153 Directors report Corporate governance Audit Committee and approved Group Internal Audits Charter, reviewed and As a result of the tender process and in line with increased Linkages between the Committee and subsidiary light of the strategic reorganisation, key internal control issues, monitored progress against its annual audit plan, and reviewed Boardaudit committees expectations on audit committees to demonstrate effective and the actions planned and taken to meet the governance its monitoring of post audit actions.
governance, a review of the Groups existing approach to the challenges in the relevant region.
While being mindful of the need not to adversely impact the annual performance and effectiveness assessment was Following the 2014 strategic reorganisation, Group Internal Audit independence of the Groups subsidiary audit committees, performed to benchmark it against best practice.
Based on Ongoing training and development balanced effective alignment to the new business structures there are documented principles in place that define the information available from the large audit rms, it was felt that with a position that allowed it to observe the changes as they linkages between the Audit Committee and the audit In conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, a half-day the existing survey could be enhanced in terms of the scope unfolded.
Group Internal Audit retained a client segment focus committees of subsidiary companies and the role of the informal session to which all directors were invited was held.
and the range and categories of questions, increased scoring of which enables end-to-end auditing of business processes and subsidiary audit committees.
In addition, in 2014 the Group The session sought to develop a better understanding of the responses as well as being sent to a wider audience, including provides exibility in stakeholder engagement.
The functions Head of Internal Audit attended subsidiary audit committee issues in relation to structurally subordinated holding company members of both the Audit Committee and subsidiary audit change governance audit team reviewed the overall strategic meetings.
Another way in which the Committee strives to lending, economics of large underwriting and single-name committee chairs.
The results of the survey were discussed by reorganisation project plans, risk logs and action trackers to ensure appropriate linkages between the Committee and the concentrations.
In addition and also in conjunction with the the Committee.
Overall, it was felt that KPMG continues to ensure that appropriate project standards were in place.
In Groups subsidiary board audit committees is by holding an Board Risk Committee, an informal discussion session was provide a good quality audit opinion as well as provide valued addition, more detailed reviews of the objectives and annual call hosted by the Committee Chair with the chairs of the held on information and cyber security.
feedback on issues across a range of subjects, including achievements of a sample of the 16 work streams established subsidiary audit committees.
This call provides the opportunity regulatory reporting, interpretation of local accounting standards, were reviewed.
Further details concerning the Groups strategic to share, among other things, the Committees priorities for the Observations and actions taken following the 2013 and operational and financial controls and developments in the local reorganisation can be found on pages 158 and 159. year ahead and to discuss ways in which the linkages between 2014 Committee effectiveness reviews market.
As in previous years there are a number of areas in the subsidiaries and the Committee can be further strengthened Group Compliance reports to the Committee on significant which KPMG could improve.
However, these were not An internally facilitated effectiveness review was conducted in and enhanced without compromising independence.
legal, compliance and regulatory risks facing the Group, and considered to be material and the Committee recommended to 2014.
This was in keeping with the approach adopted by the key actions being taken to address or mitigate them.
Reports the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Groups other Board committees.
This review, facilitated by Group Overview of governance issues in the Groups footprint also include thematic observations and compliance monitoring.
statutory auditor at the 2015 AGM.
Corporate Secretariat, involved each Committee member On an annual basis, the Committee receives separate reports providing their thoughts on the Committees effectiveness in The Committee also considered the findings of the review Group statutory auditor from the Group Executive Director and Chief Executive officer, addition to providing responses to some specic questions.
The undertaken by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Asia, and the Group Executive Director and Chief Executive feedback was then formally discussed by the Committee.
While On a regular basis and outside of Committee meetings, the Review team AQR of KPMGs 2013 audit of the Group.
The officer, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Americas.
the Committee members believed that the Committee had been Committee meets with the Groups statutory auditor KPMG, AQR review was part of a thematic review across UK banks that performing well and was effective, there were suggestions for theGroup Finance Director, Group Head of Internal Audit, and focused on credit provisioning and related controls.
The AQRs In 2014, these reports provided the Committee with updates on Committee enhancement, as set out in the following table.
Group Head of Legal and Compliance.
These meetings allow review found that limited improvements were required by the role and structure of the geographic governance model in Committee members to discuss freely matters relating to the KPMG.
The Committee discussed the action to be taken by auditors remit and issues arising from the audit.
KPMG in response to the findings so as to satisfy itself that the Summary of the key themes identied in the 2014 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken issues identied would be addressed.
2014 2013 The Committee has exercised oversight of the work undertaken Theme action by KPMG throughout the year.
As Committee Chair, Naguib met Non-audit services Theme action identied Action plan for 2015 identied Actions taken with local audit partners in Dubai, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Consideration will be given to ways in Information provided to the Committee will be There is possible As part of the ongoing New York and, together with Christine Hodgson, the local audit In 2014, the Group spent $4.1 million on non-audit services which the papers provided to the Committee distinguished more rigorously between scope to explore non-executive director partner in Singapore.
Such meetings enable the Committee provided by KPMG and $67.6 million on non-audit services with can be improved to better support information the Committee must have in order further training, throughout the year members to gain greater insight as to the challenges faced in other audit rms.
high-quality discussions on the issues to full its duties and other optional information opportunities for Committee members have the Groups markets from a statutory audit perspective.
for those Committee members with an appetite greater interaction met with senior Further details on non-audit services provided by KPMG There is room for improvements to be to delve more deeply into a particular topic with senior management teams outside can be found in note 8 on page 251 made to the pre-read material to ensure The Committee has discussed with KPMG the business and management of formal meetings that Committee members have a clear A summary sheet will be provided by paper financial risks and has sought assurance that these risks have business teams During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved a understanding of the key issues prior to authors for each paper highlighting the key been properly addressed in the audit strategy and plan, which outside of formal discussion at the meeting issues for focus by the Committee revised Group policy on the award of non-audit services to have been reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee is meetings auditors the Policy.
The Groups previous Policy was in satisfied that KPMG has allocated sufficient resource to address It is important to distinguish between When agenda-setting, greater consideration Consideration will Opportunities for further alignment with the UK Corporate Governance Code in that it these risks.
The Committee has sought and received assurance those topics that are for the Committees will be given and space will be made to enable continue to be renement of agendas have stated that the Groups statutory auditors were not the information education and those where the Committee to reect on issues being given to the need been identied.
Further that no undue pressure has been asserted on the level of audit automatic choice for non-audit services and consideration the Committee needs to actively debate brought to its attention and consider bigger to maintain enhancements will continue fees so as to ensure that there is no risk to audit work being should always be given to the use of other rms.
If the Groups picture issues, allowing greater focus on root enough time on to be made to the quality and conducted effectively and independently.
In order to improve its effectiveness, causes Committee the content of the paper so statutory auditor was appointed to provide non-audit services, there should perhaps be fewer items for agendas for as to continue to ensure that The current lead audit partner will rotate off the account at our the primary responsibility was to ensure that the independence debate, with more time allocated to each broad Committee members have a 2015 annual general meeting AGM on 6 May 2015, having and objectivity of the audit rm was not or could not be issue perspective clear understanding of the served the mandatory five years.
Like her predecessor, the new perceived to be compromised by the appointment.
discussions key issues prior to discussion lead audit partner also has a background of auditing banks and at Committee meetings It was felt that the Policy could be further strengthened to be understands the markets in which the Group operates.
Through Consideration will be given to inviting Business unit heads or function heads will be more explicit by stating that the auditors should only be used the 2014 year-end process, the Committee has worked closely more business unit heads or subject invited to attend Committee meetings to when there is evidence that there is no alternative in terms of with the new lead audit partner in preparation for her transition matter experts to meetings, to enable a enable more detailed discussion on issues quality and cost, whether knowledge and experience of the more focused discussion on steps being and the steps being taken to address these into the role.
Group is required to deliver an efficient and effective solution or taken to deal with issues identied Consideration will be given to factoring in KPMG has been the Groups statutory auditor for over 25 years where they are required to be used by regulatory requirements.
It would be useful for the Committee as a more meetings with the local Group statutory and has regularly rotated its lead partner in accordance with the Such an amendment to the Policy is also more in step with whole to meet with the local Group auditors as part of the programme for Financial Reporting Council recommendations.
changing regulatory requirements around the provision of statutory auditors when attending overseas board meetings non-audit services by statutory auditors, particularly in view overseas board meetings In 2013, the Committee conducted a tender for audit services, Local Group statutory auditors from the ofexpected EU audit reforms.
The Policy clearly sets out the the details of which were reported in the 2013 Annual Report Groups markets will be invited to attend criteria for when the Committees prior written approval is Committee meetings over the course of 2015 and Accounts.
After a robust and thorough tender process and required.
Further information on the Groups approach to careful evaluation of what the participating rms had to offer, the non-audit services can be found on pages 217 and 218.
Board concluded, on the recommendation of the Committee, Note 8 on page 251 describes the types of non-audit services that KPMG was the best rm to serve the Group.
provided by KPMG 154 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 155
