Risk and Capital review Risk management approach and an additional component to cater for potential market Group operates.
Economic and credit conditions are Loan write-off is again broadly driven by past experience of the Renegotiated and forborne loans movements.
point at which further recovery is unlikely.
Write-off occurs at interdependent within each geography and as a result there In certain circumstances, the Group may renegotiate client loans.
isno single factor to which the Groups loan impairment the same time that IIPs are established for all products except The Group uses bilateral and multilateral netting to reduce allowances as a whole are sensitive.
It is possible that actual mortgage loans, which have not been restructured.
The latter Loans that are renegotiated for commercial reasons, such as pre-settlement and settlement counterparty risk.
Pre-settlement events over the next year differ from the assumptions built into isfully impaired after 720 days past due.
when a client had a credit rating upgrade, are not included as risk exposures are normally netted using bilateral netting our model, resulting in material adjustments to the carrying part of renegotiated and forborne loans because they are not documentation in legally approved jurisdictions.
Settlement The fact that it is not possible to be certain that a loan is amount of loans and advances.
indicative of any credit stress.
exposures are generally netted using Delivery versus Payments impaired until several months after it becomes delinquent or Payment versus Payments systems.
Master netting means that it is also not possible to be certain which delinquent Loans that are renegotiated primarily to grant extended tenor Retail Clients agreements are generally enforced only in the event of default.
The Group has determined that toa client who is facing some difficulties but who we do not In line with International Accounting Standards IAS 32, Retail Clients portfolios consist of a large number of comparatively it is more likely than not that a loan is non-performing after 90 believe is impaired are reported as Other renegotiated loans.
derivative exposures are presented on a net basis in the small exposures, where it is impractical to assess each loan days and therefore uses 90 days delinquency as the Loans that are renegotiated on terms that are not consistent financial statements only if there is a legal right to offset and onan individual basis for impairment.
The primary indicator of distinguishing feature between performing and non-performing with those readily available in the market and or where we have there is intent to settle on a net basis or realise the assets and potential impairment in these portfolios is therefore delinquency.
This is, however, only an approximate granted a concession compared to the original terms of the liabilities simultaneously.
A loan is considered delinquent or past due, when the measure and it also means that, for Retail Clients portfolios, loans, are considered to be subject to forbearance strategies customer has failed to make a principal or interest payment in impaired loans do not equate to non-performing loans, because and are disclosed as Loans subject to forbearance, which is In addition, we enter into credit support annexes CSAs with accordance with the loan contract.
For delinquency reporting impairment cannot be generally determined on an individual asubset of impaired loans.
counterparties where collateral is deemed a necessary or purposes we follow industry standards, measuring delinquency basis until a later date.
desirable mitigant to the exposure.
Further details on CSAs Forbearance strategies assist clients who are temporarily as of 1, 30, 60, 90, 120 and 150 days past due.
Impairment is areset out on page 73.
It is inevitable that, at the balance sheet date, the noninnancial distress and are unable to meet their original measured against these buckets in two stages: delinquent portfolio will include a few impaired loans that have contractual repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated Securities In the first stage we raise portfolio impairment provisions PIPs.
not manifested themselves as delinquent.
These are known as bythe client, the bank or a third party including government These are calculated by applying expected loss rates to incurred, but not reported losses.
A PIP is raised against these sponsored programmes or a conglomerate of credit institutions The portfolio limits and parameters for the underwriting and delinquency buckets.
These are based on past experience of by applying past experience adjusted for current conditions to and includes debt restructuring, such as a new repayment purchase of all predened securities assets to be held for sale loss, supplemented by an assessment of specic factors that non-delinquent loans on a portfolio basis.
schedule, payment deferrals, tenor extensions and interest are approved by the Underwriting Committee.
The Underwriting affect each portfolio and that, in particular, aim to adjust historic onlypayments.
Committee is established under the authority of the Credit Risk For further details on Retail see page 75 to 83. data for current market conditions.
Loss rates are generally Committee.
The business operates within set limits, which Once a loan is subject to forbearance or is renegotiated, the calculated separately for each product in each country either include country, single issuer, holding period and credit Corporate & Institutional and Commercial and Private loan continues to be reported as such, until the loan matures through the use of historical data or using proxies and separate gradelimits.
Banking Clients oris otherwise derecognised.
loss rates are used for renegotiated and forborne loans to Day-to-day credit risk management activities for traded reect their increased risk.
PIPs take into account the fact that, Loans are classied as impaired where analysis and review Retail Clients securities are carried out by a specialist team within the Risk while delinquency is an indication of impairment, not all indicate that full payment of either interest or principal is function whose activities include oversight and approval within delinquent loans particularly those in the early stages of questionable, or as soon as payment of interest or principal For Retail Clients, all loans subject to forbearance in addition the levels delegated by the Underwriting Committee.
Issuer delinquency will in fact be impaired.
This will only become is90 days overdue.
Impaired accounts are managed by our toother renegotiated loans are managed within a separate credit risk, including settlement and pre-settlement risk, and apparent with the passage of time and as we investigate the specialist recovery unit, GSAM, which is separate from our main portfolio.
If such loans subsequently become past due, price risk are controlled by the Risk function.
causes of delinquency on a case-by-case basis.
Where any amount is considered irrecoverable, charge-off and IIP is accelerated to 90 days past due for are overdue by more than 30 days are more closely monitored anIIP is raised.
This provision is the difference between the unsecured loans and automobile finance or 120 days past due The Underwriting Committee approves individual proposals and subject to specic collections processes for this purpose.
loan-carrying amount and the present value of estimated for secured loans.
The accelerated loss rates applied to this tounderwrite new security issues for our clients.
Where an At the outset of delinquency, therefore, it is not possible to futurecash ows.
portfolio are derived from experience with other renegotiated underwritten security is held for a period longer than the target determine whether a loan is impaired: it is only possible to loans, rather than the Retail Clients portfolio as a whole, to sell-down period, the final decision on whether to sell the The individual circumstances of each client are taken into estimate the likelihood that it is.
This is taken into account of recognise the greater degree of inherent risk.
position rests with the Risk function.
account when GSAM estimates future cash ows.
All available inthe PIP method, which estimates loss by extrapolating past sources, such as cash ow arising from operations, selling experience over whole portfolios, rather than analysing Corporate & Institutional and Commercial and Loan impairment assets or subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under individual loans on a case-by-case basis.
PrivateBanking Clients guarantees, are considered.
In any decision relating to the The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise In the second stage we are able to replace PIPs with individual raising of provisions, we attempt to balance economic Forbearance and other renegotiations are applied on a incurred impairment losses either on specic loan assets or impairment provisions IIPs as we develop more knowledge conditions, local knowledge and experience, and the results case-by-case basis and are not subject to business-wide within a portfolio of loans and advances.
Individually impaired about each individual account.
We apply IIPs after the following ofindependent asset reviews.
In some cases, a new loan is granted as part loans are those loans against which individual impairment number of days delinquency: ofthe restructure, in others, the contractual terms and provisions have been raised.
Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect repayment of the existing loans are changed or extended O For mortgages, after 150 days ofrecovering a portion of an exposure against which an Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves forexample, interest-only for a period.
impairment provision has been raised, that amount will be O significant judgement, and considers the level of arrears as For secured Wealth Management products, after 90 days written off.
Loans classied as subject to forbearance are managed by wellas the assessment of matters such as future economic O For unsecured consumer finance loans, after 90 days GSAM and are kept under close review to assess the clients conditions and the value of collateral, for which there may not As with Retail Clients, a PIP is held to cover the inherent risk ability to adhere to the restructured repayment strategy and O be a readily accessible market.
For all other unsecured loans and loans secured on oflosses which, although not identied, are known through toidentify any events that could result in a deterioration in the automobiles, after 150 days experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
This is set with Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been clients ability to repay.
reference to historical loss rates and subjective factors such IIPs are based on the estimated present values of future separately identied at the balance sheet date are determined asthe economic environment and the trends in key portfolio If the terms of the renegotiation are such that, where the by taking into account past loss experience as a result of cashows, in particular those resulting from the realisation of indicators.
The PIP methodology provides for accounts for present value of the new cash ows is lower than the present uncertainties arising from the economic environment, and security.
The days past due used to trigger IIPs are driven by which an IIP has not been raised.
value of the original cash ows, the loan would be considered defaults based on portfolio trends.
Actual losses identied past experience, which shows that once an account reaches tobe impaired and, at a minimum, a discount provision would coulddiffer signicantly from the impairment provisions the relevant number of days past due, the probability of For further details on Corporate & Institutional, Commercial be raised and shown under loans subject to forbearance.
reported, for example, as a result of uncertainties arising from recovery other than by raising security as appropriate is low.
andPrivate Banking Clients see page 75 and page 83.
Theseaccounts are monitored as described on page 109. the economic environment.
For all products there are certain situations where the IIP process is accelerated, such as in cases involving bankruptcy, Renegotiated and forborne loans are disclosed by client The total amount of the Groups impairment allowances is customer fraud and death.
IIPs are also accelerated for all segments on page 77. inherently uncertain, being sensitive to changes in economic restructured accounts to 90 days past due for unsecured and and credit conditions across the geographies in which the automobile finance and 120 days past due for secured loans.
