Directors report Corporate governance During the year, directors received training on a range of topics, including: control of inside information obligations in the context Re-election of directors The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only one ofIanHannam v FCA: UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2014, including Senior Managers Regime: and the changing non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Of our The performance of all directors is rigorously reviewed annually regulatory and macroeconomic landscape.
executive directors, Andy Halford is a non-executive director and used as the basis for recommending the re-election of ofMarks and Spencer Group PLC and Jaspal Bindra is a directors to shareholders.
In line with the UK Corporate non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Directors induction and ongoing development in 2014 Governance Code, we continue to adopt the practice of proposing all of our directors for annual re election at the Subsidiary governance philosophy and linkages Regulatory Companys AGM.
All directors will stand for re election this Directors Visits to our environment year, with the exception of Peter Sands, who, as previously The Group continues to have an integrated approach to duties and markets and and announced, will step down from the Board in June 2015. governance across all countries, irrespective of whether the Induction corporate with local macroeconomic 1 training governance management landscape main activities of the Group are operated through a branch or subsidiary.
Governance is managed across the Groups eight Sir John Peace n a Independence of directors geographic regions.
In addition, Corporate Secretariat is run asa global function with consistent policies and standards.
The Board conducted a rigorous assessment of the P A Sands n a Management ofgeographic governance is structured to cover independence of the non-executive directors.
RuthMarkland economic and political developments, financial performance, O P Bhatt n a and Paul Skinner, who have both served on the Board governance and risks, franchise development and people.
forover 11 years, did not participate in this assessment.
J S Bindra n a As at 31 December 2014, the Group had 28 banking Ruth Markland and PaulSkinners in-depth knowledge of the subsidiaries and 65 independent non-executive directors Dr K M Campbell n a Group, combined with the consistency they provide through excluding our PLC Board independent non-executive directors.
their continued service, remains invaluable as we continue to Dr L Cheung n a As the independent non-executive directors on our Board travel ensure a smooth transition of the Board and its committees.
throughout the Groups footprint, they play a critical role in In addition, both Ruth and Paul demonstrate superb Dr B E Grote actively engaging with the banking subsidiary independent stewardship as Chairs of their respective committees and non-executive directors.
An annual African Chairmans Ruth continues to provide the Chairman with excellent A N Halford Conference is held, with Sir John Peace in attendance, where support as Senior Independent Director.
Given that Ruth the chairmen of our African subsidiaries meet.
In 2014, it was C M Hodgson n a andPaul have served on the Board for over 11 years, their held in June in Washington DC.
The ASEAN boards met in appointments were the subject of particular scrutiny.
N Kheraj Shanghai and the Greater China boards had their annual joint However, the Board agreed that each ofthem continued to strategy sessions in Hong Kong.
demonstrate the attributes of an independent non-executive S J Lowth n a director and there was no evidence that their extended Before stepping down as Audit Committee Chair, Rudy Markham tenure has impacted on their independence.
With the hosted an annual call with those independent non-executive R Markland n a significant change in the Board composition since 2011, directors who are members of banking subsidiary audit A M G Rees n a there has been real value in maintaining some stability committees.
Naguib Kheraj, as the new Audit Committee Chair, through Ruth and Paul remaining on the Board during this will continue to host similar annual calls.
We have also set up Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE n a transition.
The Board is satisfied that all of its non-executive anonline forum for the subsidiary independent non-executive directors bring robust independent oversight and continue to directors so that we can share Group information and key V Shankar n a remain independent.
We continually look at ways to improve our model for engaging the subsidiary independent P D Skinner, CBE n a As previously announced Ruth and Paul will retire from the non-executive directors, in order that they remain well-informed Board by the end of 2015 as it continues to progress the O H J Stocken, CBE n a and well-equipped to make decisions that are aligned to the multi-year Board succession plan.
Dr L H Thunell n a External directorships and other business interests 1.
Applicable to new directors appointed during 2014 Details of the directors external directorships can be found in These briengs took the form of a combination of presentations, discussions and the circulation of papers their biographies on pages 128 to 131.
We closely monitor the outside business interests of our directors and are satisfied that all of our directors are compliant with the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA requirements, which came into effect on 1July2014, limiting the number of directorships both executive and non-executive directors are permitted to hold.
Before committing to an additional role, directors confirm that no conicts will arise, that the role will not breach their limit as set out in the PRA rules, and provide the necessary assurance that the appointment will not adversely impact their ability to continue to full their role as a director of the Group.
Committee Chairs are particularly mindful of their obligations.
This year, as in previous years, directors have consistently demonstrated their ability to provide any additional time commitment as needed.
