Directors report Corporate governance We have also spent time reecting on the disappointing vote A three-day investor trip held in Hong Kong in November 2014, How the Group Board committee structure has changed received on the directors remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM.
attended by shareholders representing around 50 per cent of We have been listening to our shareholders.
During the year we the register, followed by an event for all London-based equity consulted with shareholders representing over half of our share analysts.
This was an opportunity to demonstrate how we are register, supported by senior management, the Chairman and responding to the challenges the Group is facing, highlight the Standard Chartered PLC Board As at 31 December 2013 Chair of the Remuneration Committee, who played active roles enormous opportunities that exist across our markets and in this process.
The consultation was very useful and the demonstrate the actions being taken to execute the refreshed constructive feedback has helped to shape a number of strategy.
During the event, investors were able to interact with Primary Enabling Special purpose enhancements to the way in which the policy will be four Group executive directors and 25 members of senior committees committees committee implemented in 2015. management.
The detailed slide packs from the event can be viewed at Institutional shareholders programme http: investors.
cfm Audit Board Risk Brand and Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Regulatory Investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing Committee Committee Values Committee Committee Committee Compliance Various investor lunches and meetings hosted by a combination Committee Oversight day-to-day communications with institutional investors.
The of our Chairman, directors and other senior management, Committee function supports the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive including the Group Treasurer, regional and business and Group Finance Director, other Board members and senior Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight of Oversight of management.
management in conducting a comprehensive shareholder review of review of review of brand review of review of Board overall Board matters relating financial, audit fundamental positioning, remuneration, and executive effectiveness and to the Groups programme spread over the year.
An insight into the level of Retail shareholders programme and internal risks including treating share plans and succession governance compliance with engagement undertaken during 2014 is set out below: control issues credit, market, customers fairly, other incentives issues its obligations The Group Corporate Secretariat oversees communication with capital, liquidity, reputational risk, under the Formal presentation of full year and half year results to our retail shareholders.
The AGM, held on 8 May 2014, provided an operational, ethics and settlements with institutional shareholders and analysts, followed by post-results 1 opportunity for the Board to meet with our retail shareholders, country crosssustainability the US authorities investor roadshows in major investor centres across Europe, border and issues in relation to to listen to their views and respond to their questions.
pension risks US sanctions The results of voting at general meetings can be viewed at and anti-money See http: investors.
cfm for further http: investors.
cfm laundering information compliance and In addition, during the year, we hosted a meeting with the related matters Interim management statement issued for the three months United Kingdom Shareholders Association and we engaged ending 31 March 2014 and nine months ending 30 September with specialist fund managers focusing on UK retail investors.
2014, followed by a call with investors and analysts.
We Standard Chartered PLC Board discontinued the issue of our pre-close statement in the second Debt investor programme As at 1 January 2015 half of 2014.
Group Treasury manage the Groups relationships with debt See http: investors.
investors and the three major rating agencies.
Country chief cfm?CategoryID 51 Audit Committee Board Risk Brand, Values Remuneration Governance and Board Financial executives and chief financial ofcers lead on management of Committee and Conduct Committee Nomination Crime Risk Industry conferences attended by executive directors and subsidiary ratings.
In 2014, we met with debt investors and Committee Committee Committee senior regional and business management.
Conference rating agencies across Europe, the US and Asia.
The Group is Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review attendance provided an opportunity to meet a large number of an active issuer of senior unsecured and non-equity capital so it of financial, audit and of fundamental risks of brand positioning, of remuneration, of Board and of all financial crime investors in London, New York, Toronto, Amsterdam, the Nordic is important to maintain regular dialogue with debt investors to internal control issues including credit, conduct, treating share plans and executive compliance matters region, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Beijing.
ensure continued appetite for the Groups credit.
The Groups market, capital, customers fairly, other incentives succession, overall credit ratings are important to the external perception of the liquidity, operational, reputational risk, Board effectiveness The presentations given at those conferences were made country cross-border ethics and and governance Groups financial strength and creditworthiness.
available on our website at http: investors.
com en and pension risks sustainability issues issues conference.
cfm Further information can be found at: http: investors.
cfm significant engagement by the Chairman with shareholders and investor bodies, including roadshows in London and Edinburgh, to obtain shareholder feedback and consider corporate governance issues.
In April 2014, the Chairman hosted a Board committees Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee was set up as a governance dinner in London attended by 18 key investors.
special purpose committee responsible for the oversight of We have implemented a number of changes to the Board Thedinner was well received and has been a regular feature matters relating to the Groups compliance with its obligations committee structure as part of the Boards commitment to raise 1 ofour market communication in recent years, providing an under the settlements with the US authorities.
This included its the bar on conduct and provide more effective oversight.
avenue for debate on relevant AGM and topical governance responses to other requests, subpoenas and orders from any issues, and, more broadly, deepening relationships with our On 1 October 2014, the Brand and Values Committee was US Federal, State, or other relevant authority in respect of such topshareholders.
renamed the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee, to more settlements and or the Groups historical and current compliance accurately reect the Committees focus on different aspects of with US sanctions regulations.
The Board Financial Crime Risk conduct and, in particular, to demonstrate its oversight role in Committee will have a broader remit than the Board Regulatory the drive to signicantly raise the bar in this area.
In December Compliance Oversight Committee, providing an additional focus 2014, the Nomination Committee and the Governance and oversight of all financial crime compliance matters.
In Committee were integrated to create a single Governance and addition, those aspects of the Board Risk Committee, the Audit Nomination Committee, which gives broader representation for Committee and the Brand, Values and Conduct Committees governance-related matters.
On 1 January 2015, we established a new Board committee, 1.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee, which replaced the NYDFS, the Board of Governors of Federal Reserve System FED, the New York Board Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee.
TheBoard County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC 146 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 147
