Risk and Capital review Risk management approach O O To uphold the overall integrity of the Groups risk return Credit and country cross-border: the Group manages its credit Standard Chartered Bank Court Committees decisions, and in particular ensure that risks are properly and country cross-border exposures following the principle of assessed, that risk return decisions are made transparently diversication across products, geographies, client segments on the basis of this proper assessment, and controlled in and industry sectors.
Specic risk tolerances are set for Global Business Credit Risk Committee Standard Chartered Group Risk Committee Risk Committee accordance with the Groups standards and risk appetite single-name credit concentrations, industry credit concentrations, Bank Court portfolio tenor, retail unsecured credit concentrations and O To exercise direct risk control ownership for credit, market, Group Financial Crime Market and Traded Credit country cross-border credit risk concentrations country cross-border, short-term liquidity and operational Risk Committee Risk Committee O risktypes Capital and earnings volatility: under stressed conditions, ofaseverity experienced on average once in 25 years, the Group Functions Operational Principal Finance The independence of the Risk function is to ensure that the Risk Committee Investment Committee Groups prudential capital ratios on a transitional basis should necessary balance in risk return decisions is not compromised exceed minimum regulatory capital requirements, without by short-term pressures to generate revenues.
This is Group Information Management Business Responsibility and recourse to external sources.
Specic tolerances are set for Governance Committee particularly important given that revenues are recognised from Reputational Risk Committee minimum Common Equity Tier 1 capital and leverage ratios the point of sale, while losses arising from risk positions typically under 1-in-25-year stress conditions Group Pension Business Process manifest themselves over time.
Risk Committee Governance Committees O Market risk: the Group should control its trading portfolio and In addition, the Risk function is a centre of excellence that activities to ensure that market risk losses financial or provides specialist capabilities of relevance to risk management reputational do not cause material damage to the Groups processes in the wider organisation.
Liquidity Management Group Asset and franchise.
Specic tolerances are set for minimum financial Committee Liability Committee markets, stress profitability and short-term profit and loss Risk tolerance and appetite volatility Capital Management We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise in the Committee O Liquidity risk: the Group should be able to meet its payment interests of all our stakeholders.
and collateral obligations under extreme but plausible liquidity Global Business Balance We recognise three sets of constraints which determine the stress scenarios without recourse to extraordinary central Sheet Committee risks that we are willing to take in pursuit of our strategy: bank support.
Specic tolerances are set for minimum assets to deposits and liquidity coverage ratios Tax Management O Risk capacity defines externally imposed constraints within Committee O which the Group must operate.
It is the maximum level of risk Operational risk: the Group aims to control operational risks the Group can assume, given its current capabilities and to ensure that operational losses financial or reputational, including any related to conduct of business matters, do not resources, before breaching constraints determined by Members of the Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset is dened by a given risk type and the risk management regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, or otherwise cause material damage to the Groups franchise.
This and Liability Committee are drawn from the Court.
The Group processes that relate to that risk type.
These responsibilities failing to meet the expectations of regulators and law statement is underpinned by risk tolerances for each Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Risk officer.
cut across the Group and are not constrained by functional, enforcement agencies operational top risk.
The risk control metrics that underpin the TheGroup Asset and Liability Committee is chaired by the business and geographic boundaries.
The major risk types operational top risks are in the process of being dened as O Risk tolerance is the boundary dened by the Board that Group Finance Director.
Risk limits and risk exposure approval are described individually in the following sections part of the roll out of the Groups operational risk framework determines the maximum level of risk the Group is ordinarily authority frameworks are set by the Group Risk Committee in ORF.
See page 100 for the list of the Groups current O Third line of defence: the independent assurance provided willing to take in pursuit of its strategy, in accordance with its respect of credit risk, country cross-border risk, market risk operational top risks bythe Group Internal Audit function.
Its role is dened and risk principles.
Risk tolerance must constrain risk to the levels andoperational risk.
The Group Asset and Liability Committee O overseen by the Audit Committee where the potential for any financial or reputational damage is Reputational risk: the Group will protect its reputation to ensure sets the approval authority framework in respect of liquidity risk.
consistent with the sustained pursuit of strategy and in line that there is no material damage to the Groups franchise Risk approval authorities may be exercised by risk committees The findings from the Group Internal Audit functions audits are with the reasonable expectations of stakeholders.
reported to all relevant management and governance bodies, The Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset and Liability tolerance cannot exceed risk capacity Committee are responsible for ensuring that our risk prole is accountable line managers, relevant oversight function or The committee governance structure ensures that risk-taking O committee and committees of the Board.
Risk appetite is the amount of risk that the Group regards managed in compliance with the risk tolerances set by the authority and risk management policies are cascaded down as optimal in order to generate returns, taking account of Board.
The Board Risk Committee advises the Board on the from the Board through to the appropriate functional, business Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance of the current and reasonably foreseeable external market Risk Tolerance Statement and monitors that the Group remains and country-level committees.
Information regarding material effectiveness of managements control of its own business conditions.
Risk appetite cannot exceed risk tolerance incompliance with it.
risk issues and compliance with policies and standards is activities the first line and of the processes maintained by the communicated to the country, business, functional and risk control functions the second line.
As a result, Group The Groups risk prole is our overall exposure to risk, at a given Stress testing Group-level committees.
Internal Audit provides assurance that the overall system of point in time, covering all applicable risk types.
Risk control control effectiveness is working as required within the risk tools such as exposure limits, underwriting standards, Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the Roles and responsibilities for risk management are dened management framework.
scorecard cut-offs and policies and other operational control financial and management capability of Standard Chartered under a Three Lines of Defence model.
Each line of defence parameters are used to keep the Groups risk prole within risk tocontinue operating effectively under extreme but plausible describes a specic set of responsibilities for risk management The Risk function appetite and therefore also risk tolerance and risk capacity.
The Group Chief Risk officer directly manages a Risk function The Board has approved a Risk Tolerance Statement, which Our stress-testing framework is designed to: O First line of defence: all employees are required to ensure the that is separate from the origination, trading and sales functions isunderpinned by a set of financial and operational control O effective management of risks within the scope of their direct Contribute to the setting and monitoring of risk tolerance of the businesses.
The Group Chief Risk officer also chairs the parameters, known as risk tolerances.
These risk tolerances organisational responsibilities.
Business unit, function and O Group Risk Committee and is a member of the Court.
directly constrain the aggregate risk exposures that can be Identify key risks to our strategy, financial position and reputation geographic heads are accountable for risk management in taken across the Group.
O their respective businesses and functions, and for countries The role of the Risk function is: Support the development of mitigating actions and where they have governance responsibilities The Groups Risk Tolerance Statement, and the related risk contingency plans, including business continuity O To maintain the risk management framework, ensuring it tolerance categories approved by the Board, are as follows: O O Second line of defence: this comprises the risk control remains appropriate to the Groups activities, is effectively Meet regulatory requirements O General: the Group will not compromise adherence to owners, supported by their respective control functions.
Risk communicated and implemented across the Group, and to Our stress-testing activity focuses on the potential impact of control owners are responsible for ensuring that the risks administer related governance and reporting processes itsrisktolerances in order to pursue revenue growth or market, macroeconomic, geo-political and physical events on higherreturns within the scope of their responsibilities remain within relevant geographies, client segments and asset classes.
The scope of a risk control owners responsibilities Stress tests are performed at Group, country and business level 106 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 107
