Risk and Capital review Principal uncertainties Risk management approach The Group recognises that its compliance with historical, The management of risk lies at the heart of Acting within an authority delegated by the Board, the Board current and future sanctions, as well as AML and BSA StandardChartereds business.
One of the main risks Risk Committee, whose membership is comprised exclusively requirements, and customer due diligence practices, not just in the Group incurs arises from extending credit to clients of non-executive directors of the Group, has responsibility the US but throughout its footprint, are and will remain a focus through our trading and lending operations.
Beyond foroversight and review of prudential risks, including but not of the relevant authorities.
credit risk, we are also exposed to a range of other risk limited to credit, market, capital, liquidity and operational risks.
types such as country cross-border, market, liquidity, Itreviews the Groups overall Risk Tolerance Statement and As part of their remit to oversee market conduct, regulators and operational, pension, reputational and other risks that makes recommendations thereon to the Board.
Its responsibilities other agencies in certain markets are conducting investigations are inherent to our strategy, product range and also include reviewing the appropriateness and effectiveness or requesting reviews into a number of areas of regulatory geographical coverage.
ofthe Groups risk management systems and controls, compliance and market conduct, including sales and trading, considering the implications of material regulatory change involving a range of financial products, and submissions made Risk management framework proposals, ensuring effective due diligence on material acquisitions to set various market interest rates and other financial and disposals, and monitoring the activities of the Group Risk benchmarks, such as foreign exchange.
At relevant times, Effective risk management is fundamental to being able to generate Committee and the Group Asset and Liability Committee.
certain of the Groups branches and or subsidiaries were and profits consistently and sustainably and is therefore a central part are participants in some of those markets, in some cases of the financial and operational management of theGroup.
The Board Risk Committee receives regular reports on risk submitting data to bodies that set such rates and other financial management, including our portfolio trends, policies and Through our risk management framework we manage benchmarks.
The Group is contributing to industry proposals to standards, stress testing, liquidity and capital adequacy, and is enterprise-wide risks, with the objective of maximising strengthen financial benchmarks processes in certain markets authorised to investigate or seek any information relating to an risk-adjusted returns while remaining within our risk tolerance.
and continues to review its practices and processes in the light activity within its terms of reference.
The Board Risk Committee of the investigations, reviews and the industry proposals.
As part of this framework, the Board has approved a set of also conducts deep dive reviews on a rolling basis of different principles that describe the risk management culture we wish sections of the consolidated group risk information report.
The Group is cooperating with all relevant ongoing reviews, tosustain: requests for information and investigations.
The outcome of The Brand, Values and Conduct Committee oversees the these reviews, requests for information and investigations is brand, values and good reputation of the Group, ensuring that Balancing risk and return uncertain and could result in further actions, penalties or fines, reputational risk is consistent with the Risk Tolerance Statement O but it is not possible to predict the extent of any liabilities or We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise, in the approved by the Board and the creation of long-term interests of all our stakeholders other consequences that may arise.
O In meeting regulatory expectations and demonstrating active We only take risk within our risk tolerances and risk appetite, The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee oversees the Groups risk management, the Group also takes steps to restrict or and where consistent with our approved strategy effective compliance with financial crime regulations.
restructure or otherwise mitigate higher-risk business activities, O We manage our risk prole to maintain a low probability of an The Audit Committee oversees financial, audit and internal which could include divesting or closing businesses that exist unexpected loss event that would materially undermine the control issues.
confidence of our investors Further details on the role of the Board and its committees For further details on legal and regulatory matters refer to inmatters of risk governance are covered in the Directors Conduct of business note43 on page 303. report on pages 128 to 219 O We demonstrate we are Here for good through our conduct, Overall accountability for risk management is held by the and are mindful of the reputational consequences of As a result of our normal business operations, Standard Chartered Bank Court the Court, which comprises inappropriate conduct StandardChartered is exposed to a broader range of risks the Group executive directors and other senior executives of than those principal uncertainties mentioned above and our O Standard Chartered Bank.
We seek to achieve good outcomes for clients, investors and approach tomanaging risk is detailed on the following pages.
the markets in which we operate, while abiding by the spirit The Court is the highest executive body of the Group and its and letter of laws and regulations terms of reference are approved by the Board of Standard O Chartered PLC.
The Court delegates authority for the We treat our colleagues fairly and with respect management of risk to the Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset and Liability Committee.
Responsibility and accountability O We take individual responsibility to ensure risk-taking is The Group Risk Committee is responsible for the management of all risks other than those delegated by the Court to the Group disciplined and focused, particularly within our area of authority Asset and Liability Committee.
The Group Risk Committee is O We make sure risk-taking is transparent, controlled and responsible for the establishment of, and compliance with, reported in line with the risk management framework, within policies relating to credit risk, country cross-border risk, risk appetite and risk tolerance boundaries and only where marketrisk, operational risk, pension risk and reputational risk.
there is appropriate infrastructure and resource The Group Risk Committee also defines our overall risk management framework.
Anticipation The Group Asset and Liability Committee is responsible O We seek to anticipate material future risks, learn lessons from forthemanagement of capital and the establishment of, events that have produced adverse outcomes and ensure andcompliance with, policies relating to balance sheet awareness of known risks management, including management of our liquidity, capital adequacy and structural foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Competitive advantage The Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset and Liability O We seek to achieve competitive advantage through efficient Committee are essentially unchanged following the and effective risk management and control reorganisation of our business, although the committee structures below them have changed signicantly in some Risk governance areas.
The previous divisional risk committee structures have been combined to achieve better integration and alignment Ultimate responsibility for setting our risk tolerance boundaries and for the effective management of risk rests with the Board.
