Directors report Senior management Corporate governance Exemplary governance supports our decisions and guides our behaviours At Standard Chartered, our rich heritage, culture and values remain core to the way we do business Tracy Clarke David Fein Richard Goulding Jan Verplancke The senior management of the Group is made up of the Court of Standard Chartered Bank theCourt, David Fein, in his capacity as Group General Counsel, and Annemarie Durbin seepage 131, in her capacity as Group Head, Independent Governance and Workplace.
Asat4 March 2015, theCourt comprises the executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC, Tracy Clarke, Richard Goulding and Jan Verplancke.
Sir John Peace Chairman Tracy Clarke 48 career, David was an Assistant Operating officer for the Wholesale Director, Compliance, People and United States Attorney for the Banking business, before becoming Communication Southern District of New York and the Group Chief Risk officer, with Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee was integrated with the served as Deputy Chief of the responsibility for managing credit, Tracy joined Standard Chartered in Criminal Division and Counsel to the market and operational risk across Governance Committee during the year, to create a single 1985.
She was appointed a Director This has been a difficult year as we continue to transition United States Attorney.
Richard is a trustee of Governance and Nomination Committee.
This Committee of Standard Chartered Bank in the Group back onto a trajectory of sustainable and served as Associate White House theGlobal Association of Risk hasbeen intensely focused on executive and non-executive January 2013. profitable growth, delivering returns above our cost of Counsel: a partner at the law rm Professionals.
succession, putting in place a number of changes to the Career: Tracy spent her early career ofWiggin and Dana: and Visiting equity.
This repositioning is taking place against an Experience: Richard brings an Boards composition in line with our multi-year plan to refresh in Wholesale Banking operations and Lecturer in Law at Yale Law School.
intensely challenging environment of structural change in-depth knowledge of the credit, the Board and reduce its overall size.
In addition, the client relationship roles both in the UK David is a key advisor to the Board within the banking industry, cyclical headwinds and a market and operational risk agenda and Hong Kong, before going on to ofStandard Chartered PLC and the Governance and Nomination Committee has remained focused as well as experience across a wide complex regulatory environment.
As a Board we have become Head of the Group Chief Court of Standard Chartered Bank on ensuring that appropriate succession plans are in place range of operational functions.
taken significant action to address our immediate Executives Ofce and later Group on all material legal matters.
among the senior management team, supporting the execution performance challenges and to reposition the Group Head of Corporate Affairs.
In 2006, InJuly2014, David was appointed Jan Verplancke 51 of the Groups strategy.
Through the ongoing delivery of our Tracy became Group Head of Human ChairofSeeing is Believing, forgrowth.
We remain focused on raising the bar on Chief Information officer and Group multi-year succession plan, we have continued to ensure that Resources.
Her portfolio was StandardChartereds global initiative conduct across every part of the Group, and have put Head of Technology and Operations the Board and senior management have the knowledge, skills, expanded in January 2010 to tackling avoidable blindness.
He also inplace changes to the Boards composition in line encompass Group Head of Corporate sits on the boards of Guiding Eyes Jan joined Standard Chartered in experience and background to develop, challenge and support withour broader multi-year succession plan.
Affairs and in April 2013 she took on forthe Blind and Derek Jeters Turn 2 2004 and was appointed a Director our strategic ambitions, both now and in the future.
More details the additional responsibility for Legal Foundation.
of Standard Chartered Bank in While we have been focused on shaping and executing the on the activities of the Governance and Nomination Committee and Compliance.
On 8 January 2015, Experience: David brings a wealth refreshed strategy, we have also taken time to reect on and can be found on pages 166 and 167. independent non-executive director of itwas announced that Jan will be of legal knowledge and experience sharpen our approach in respect to all aspects of the plan and Sky Plc and chair of its remuneration retiring as Chief Information officer We recently announced that Peter Sands, our Group Chief alongside a deep understanding of its execution.
As a Board we have also rightly continued to ask committee.
She is a trustee of and Group Head of Technology and the US legal system, having held a Executive, will be leaving the Group with effect from June 2015.
WORKing for YOUth, a charity Operations from the Group and as a questions of the Groups short-term performance and this will number of significant roles in the US Peter has made an immense contribution to the success of working with business to create job Director of the Court of Standard remain a key item of discussion in the year ahead.
Standard Chartered and has had a transformative impact opportunities for young people.
At Standard Chartered, our rich heritage, culture and values during his 13-year tenure both as Group Chief Executive and, is a member of the Institute of Richard Goulding 55 Career: Jan joined Standard Financial Services and a fellow of the remain core to the way we do business, underpinning our previously, as Group Finance Director.
His leadership and Group Chief Risk officer Chartered from Dell where he was Chartered Institute of Personnel and approach to everything we do and our commitment to be insight, over a period of huge change and challenge for the chief information officer EMEA.
Richard joined Standard Chartered in Herefor good.
However, we recognise that societys trust in the Aswell as having overall systems entire industry, ensure he leaves the Group well placed to 2002 and was appointed a Director of Experience: Tracy brings a wide responsibility for EMEA, he was banking industry remains fragile, and that conduct continues achieve its full potential as one of the worlds leading financial Standard Chartered Bank in January range of managerial and operational responsible for the expansion of new tobe a huge challenge for the industry.
This is why the Board institutions.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Peter 2013.
On 8 January 2015, it was experience across corporate affairs, markets and the consolidation of iscommitted to raising the bar in this area across every aspect for his tremendous service to the Group throughout his tenure.
announced that Richard will be retiring brand and marketing, media Dells back-ofce operations.
Jan is as Chief Risk officer from the Group of the Groups operations.
We have committed significant relations, human resources and legal responsible for all systems Bill Winters will join the Group in May 2015 and be appointed to and as a Director of the Court of investment to our financial crime and conduct agenda, including and compliance.
development, technology support the Board as Group Chief Executive with effect from June 2015.
Standard Chartered Bank during 2015. surveillance system upgrades, people and training.
We endorsed and banking operations at Standard Bill is a globally respected banker who brings substantial David Fein 54 Career: Richard qualied as a Chartered.
Jan is a non-executive the updated Group Code of Conduct and re-issued it in 2014, financial experience from leading a successful global business Group General Counsel chartered accountant with Arthur director of Scope International Private requiring every employee across our markets to personally as well as an exceptional understanding of the global regulatory Andersen and Company.
He went on Limited and Standard Chartered re-commit to it.
We also established a new Board committee David joined Standard Chartered in to become a member of the global Bank China Limited.
Alongside the Board, Bill will be September 2013. with a mandate focused specically on financial crime compliance executive board of UBS investment instrumental in executing our refreshed strategy and returning Experience: Jan brings significant matters.
The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee became Career: Before joining banking division, chaired the the Group swiftly to sustainable and profitable growth.
systems, operations and technical effective on 1 January 2015, providing the Board with both StandardChartered, David was operating committee and took expertise to the Group.
United States Attorney for the District responsibility for programme and broader and deeper oversight than the previous Board We also recently announced that Jaspal Bindra, Group of Connecticut, appointed by regional management.
Richard joined Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee, and includes Executive Director and Chief Executive officer, Asia, has President Obama and confirmed by Standard Chartered from the Old three external experts who bring invaluable experience.
decided to step down from the Board at the end of April 2015, the United States Senate.
In that Mutual Group, where he was chief Moredetails on this new committee, its membership and and will be leaving Standard Chartered shortly thereafter.
Jaspal capacity, he was appointed Vice operating officer of their global responsibilities can be found on page 169. has made an enormous contribution to the Board and the wider Chair of the Attorney Generals financial services division, based in Advisory Committees White-Collar London and Boston.
When Richard Group throughout his long and successful 16-year career.
Earlier in his joined the Group he was the Chief 132 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 133
