Directors report Corporate governance Corporate governance Board Risk Committee Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Observations and actions taken following the 2013 and Committee member providing their thoughts on the Committees 2014 Committee effectiveness reviews effectiveness in addition to providing feedback in response to asmall number of specic questions.
The themes arising from In keeping with the approach to Committee effectiveness the feedback were then discussed by the Committee.
An action adopted by the other Board committees, in 2014 the Committee plan has been formulated to address theobservations and a conducted an internally facilitated effectiveness review.
This was We remain committed to our conduct summary of the findings appear in the following table.
facilitated by the Group Corporate Secretariat and involved each agenda, ensuring we demonstrate our Summary of the key themes identied in the 2014 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken Here for good brand promise 2014 2013 Theme action identied Action plan for 2015 Theme action identied Actions taken There is a need to continue to Building on the work undertaken There was scope for the Committee To ensure that the Committee was take steps to strike the right in 2014 following the transition papers to be more concise, while not distracted from operating balance on the Committee to the new Committee Chair, the balancing the need to ensure that effectively, work was undertaken in agenda and in information Committees rolling agenda will the Committee receives the correct 2013 to further rene agendas and provided to the Committee so continue to be kept under level of detail in order to effectively papers.
For example, additional as to allow time for oversight review so as to strike the right full its duties background information designed Paul Skinner, CBE reviewing regular reports and balance in the information for optional reading is now provided Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee monitoring challenging provided to the Committee separately to Committee members executive risk management, and is not included in the papers for As the Committee is most deeper dives into specic Committee meetings effective when dealing with issues, horizon scanning and Dear Shareholder its community investment initiatives.
The Committee once again specic topics on a focused As part of the transition to the new strategic risk welcomed the high participation in volunteering by employees, basis, there is an opportunity Committee Chair, the opportunity During 2014, the Committees name changed to the which continues to surpass our peers.
for the Committee to move away has been taken to review rolling Brand, Values and Conduct Committee previously the from standard agenda items and agendas and information ows to Brand and Values Committee.
This was to emphasise During the year, the Committee reviewed the brand strategies allocate more time to allocated the Committee the role the Committee has in the Groups conduct ofindividual segments including Retail Clients, Private Banking specic items agenda.
In addition to conduct, the Committee has Clients, and Corporate & Institutional Clients, giving us essential As the Group is now operating Business unit heads will be oversight of the Groups culture and values, reputational insights into the Groups strategic execution.
In addition, the within the new strategic invited to Committee meetings risk, government and regulatory relationships, Committee noted the mutual success of the new 2014 brand organisational design, the as part of an operational risk environmental and sustainability issues, and brand advertising campaign, which has been adapted and customised Committee could increase the deep dive programme positioning.
Throughout 2014, the Committee worked to globally across seven languages.
time spent with the business Committee members will ensure that it added value to the business, carrying out unit heads to gain their continue to visit a variety of the The Committee met the Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia perspective on the way risk is aseries of in-depth reviews across its mandate.
Groups markets and engage board and management team while visiting the country in April.
managed with many levels of the Groups Conduct has been a significant focus for the Committee in The impact of sponsorship initiatives such as Liverpool Football risk management across the 2014, and we remain committed to ensuring the Group Club LFC and the Kuala Lumpur marathon was evident, as Groups footprint demonstrates its Here for good brand promise.
It was was the use of Here for good messaging, which was encouraging to see the progress made on the conduct agenda, exemplied in a variety of forms.
with advancement in the governance framework, strategy The Committee reviewed the Groups reputational risk exposure process and the incorporation of conduct within the Groups at each meeting, including an analysis of the material risk management framework.
The continued integration of the reputational risks facing the Group and the strategies in place Groups Code of Conduct the Code has been complemented toprotect the Groups internal and external reputation.
by the introduction of a new employee engagement survey, MyVoice.
This survey demonstrated a strong conduct culture, In December, we carried out a review of our effectiveness as with over 95 per cent of respondents understanding what the aCommittee to identify improvements for the future.
We believe Code means to them and that they are personally committed it is fundamentally important to ensure that the Committee totreating clients fairly.
Employees also scored highly in not continues, through its oversight, to add value and reduce risk tolerating unethical behaviour and knowing what Here for good across the business.
The Committee is confident that there is a real commitment by employees to further strengthening the Groups compliance culture.
We continue to believe that strong commitment to its culture and values can be an important differentiator for the Group.
Adetailed report demonstrated significant progress made in Paul Skinner, CBE this area, including employee wellness initiatives and the Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Groups approach to diversity and inclusion.
The Committee has reviewed the Groups sustainability strategy and believes it is important that the business contributes to sustainable economic growth and development in key developing markets.
As part of the Groups commitment to be aresponsible company, the Committee seeks assurances that the Group is meeting or exceeding industry best practice in many areas such as our environmental, social and governance processes.
We also continue to monitor the Groups progress in 160 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 161 Directors report Corporate governance Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Who sits on the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee At each meeting, the Committee is provided with an update TheAwards have once again proved popular with employees onthe material reputational risks facing the Group from the with 552 entries and 82,000 votes received from employees.
perspective of both internal and external stakeholders.
This The Committee continues to support the Awards and its includes reputational risks associated with politicisation of powerful connection to Here for good.
Scheduled Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include: regulatory issues, remuneration, data security and privacy, and meetings: 5 Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Director of Compliance, People and tax-related issues, with each risk type being assigned a specic Sustainability P D Skinner, CBE Chair 5 5 Communication: Group Company Secretary: Group Head of Corporate Affairs.
During the year, the Committee has sought and received In 2014, the Committee received an update on the Groups Dr K Campbell appointed 1 December 2014 1 1 assurance on the governance structure in place to identify and sustainability strategy, the Groups commitment to promote manage reputational risks.
Dr B E Grote appointed 1 July 2014 3 3 sustainable social and economic development across the Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 5 5 Since January 2015, the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee countries in which we operate.
Sustainability is integrated into has taken responsibility for any reputational risk associated with our business and is a key component of how we deliver on our C M Hodgson appointed 1 February 2014 5 5 money laundering, sanctions abuse, bribery and corruption or Here for good brand promise.
Directors who stepped down during 2014 2015 1.
Jamie Dundas was unable to attend the meeting on 26 March 2014 due to ill health any related topic.
Lars Thunell stepped down from the Committee to focus on his role as Chair of the 1 The Committee continues to provide oversight of the Groups J F T Dundas stepped down 1 May 2014 0 1 Board Risk Committee three sustainability priorities: contributing to sustainable 2 Dr L H Thunell stepped down 30 September 2014 4 4 Note: There were no ad hoc Committee meetings in 2014 Culture and values economic growth, being a responsible company and investing The Committee considers it fundamentally important that the in communities.
The Committee monitors the Groups Group promotes an open, inclusive and collaborative working commitment to contribute to sustainable economic growth environment.
To provide the Committee with deeper context andexpanded initiatives such as Power Africa and mobile onthe work being undertaken within the Group to reinforce our payment capabilities.
The Committee noted how the Group culture and values, the Committee received detailed progress hasadvanced its external disclosures with detailed reports on the subject of employee well-being, and diversity country-by-country tax disclosure consistent with the Committee membership Inaddition, a new conduct risk assessment has been and inclusion.
The Committee supported the Groups approach EUrequirements.
institutionalised as a core part of any new market strategy.
The Committee is chaired by Paul Skinner, who has extensive to employee well-being, including access to wider healthcare TheCommittee rmly believes that a robust governance The Committee received an in-depth review of the Groups experience of branded, customer-facing businesses on a global provision and education awareness.
As a Committee we were structure is required to deliver the Group conduct programme community investment strategy, which is aligned to the core scale, sustainability environmental issues arising in the natural pleased to see that as part of the comprehensive diversity and and welcomed the establishment of project groups, led by the themes of health and education.
The Committee acknowledged resources industry, and government relationships.
Dr Han, inclusion programme, several Group-wide initiatives have been business and supported by second line functions, such as the outstanding employee volunteering efforts, with engagement aformer prime minister of the Republic of Korea, has deep launched or embedded, further demonstrating our Here for Legal and Compliance.
The Committee welcomed the in-depth levels greater than our peers and the continued focus on experience of geo-political issues, multilateral agencies and good brand promise.
The Committee supported the sustained diagnostic carried out by Oliver Wyman a leading management promoting high quality skills-based volunteering.
We noted that sustainability environmental policies, and is currently the UN focus on advancing gender diversity across the Group, noting consulting rm into the Groups current position relating to the Group was on track to raise more than $10 million for Seeing Secretary-Generals Special Envoy for Disaster Risk Reduction the success of our signature Women in Leadership and conduct.
The Group-wide conduct programme will be tracked is Believing in 2014, including fundraising and Group matching.
and Water, and a member of the UN Secretary-Generals Womens Development Programmes operating across by the Committee throughout 2015.
The Groups progress on its other programmes was also Advisory Board on Water and Sanitation.
recognised, with Goal reaching more than 50,000 girls in 2014: has a wealth of experience in the area of sustainability and is Treating Customers Fairly is a key Financial Conduct Authority The Committee also welcomed the progress made in raising financial education for youth engaging more than 13,100 youth in currently chair of the Capgemini UK Sustainability Board.
Byron principle in the management of client relationships.
In 2014, the awareness of inclusion and disability issues, noting the use of 2014 alone: and the refocusing of the Living with HIV programme Grote, who joined the Committee in July, has extensive global Committee conducted a review into Treating Customers Fairly disability networks in the UK and Singapore, and disability through a new partnership with the MTV Staying Alive Foundation experience through his variety of roles within BP plc from 1988 and considered the progress being made on key cultural listening groups in Malaysia, Thailand and Oman to help shape to promote education and awareness.
until 2013, including deep experience of reputational risk issues drivers: the Code, Speaking Up, fair accountability processes the action plan for 2014 and 2015.
A further area of focus for the and strategies.
Kurt Campbell joined the Committee on and sales incentives.
The Committee continues to endorse the For the past two years, the Group has monitored developments Committee was how lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 1 December 2014, and brings geo-political government focus on being Here for Clients through the delivery of the related to integrated reporting.
Emerging best practice is for employees are supported throughout the Group.
The relations experience, having served as the US Assistant Groups client-focused strategy to deepen relationships and companies to move away from preparing standalone sustainability Committee supported the establishment of networks in the US, Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacic Affairs from being a force for good.
reviews and instead integrate more non-financial data into a the UK, Hong Kong and Singapore, and was pleased to see 2009to 2013. companys annual report to demonstrate how an organisation Following the relaunch of the Code in 2013, it was encouraging that in the UK the Group had been placed highly on the creates value.
Therefore, for 2014, the Committee has supported to see that by the end of 2014, 99 per cent of employees Stonewall Global Workplace Equality Index.
A key element of Role and responsibilities the Groups decision to move towards integrated reporting.
globally had reconrmed their commitment to it.
These results our brand and business proposition is the diversity of our The Committees remit includes oversight of the positioning of demonstrate the further commitment by both management revenue streams and geographical distribution.
The Committee Further details on sustainability can be found on pages 26 to 29. the Groups brand, reputational risk, government and regulatory andemployees to continue strengthening the Groups therefore continues to support national diversity of potential relationships, environmental and sustainability issues, and our compliance culture.
candidates in hiring, promotion, succession planning and Brand conduct, culture and values.
In January 2015, the governance structure at Standard The Committee supported a new brand advertising campaign, Chartered was strengthened with the creation of the Board In late 2014, a new employee engagement survey, My Voice, which was launched during 2014.
Playing to our Here for good Conduct Financial Crime Risk Committee.
This new Committee will have was introduced across the Group, with the results being brand promise, it focused on people and companies in our The external focus on the conduct of financial institutions and oversight of all material financial crime-related matters, including reviewed and discussed by the Committee.
More than markets, positioning our brand to be aspirational, and their staff, with respect to their customers and markets, the Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme, which was 85 per cent of employees across 68 countries completed the demonstrates that we are a committed, caring and continued to increase.
To bring even greater focus to conduct, previously overseen by the Audit Committee, and financial survey.
The Committee was encouraged to see positive results knowledgeable guide to our clients.
The Committee received the Brand and Values Committee was redesignated the Brand, crime-related Speaking Up.
The Committees role continues to across the Group on aspects of our conduct culture, and high updates from senior management in the business on how this Values and Conduct Committee in October 2014. be the oversight of the raising the bar on conduct agenda and individual commitment and engagement levels.
Senior would be implemented on the ground, including how it ensuring all relevant aspects of conduct are covered management are analysing the data across key risk and control complemented the new Retail Clients brand strategy, and on During 2014, the Committee was provided with an update on appropriately by the Boards committees.
functions, products and client segments to identify how the Private Banking Clients segment was leveraging the strategy and the progress the Group is making with its raising opportunities to enhance our effective collaborative working key messages from the campaign.
the bar on conduct agenda, which is one of the Groups top Reputational risk environment.
The progress on action plans will be reported to five priorities.
Conduct thinking is now further embedded into the Committee in 2015. our global strategy and business model decisions.
Integral to Another significant role of the Committee is the oversight of this are the tests used to determine if an activity is on strategy, theprocesses by which the Group identies and manages The Chairmans Here for good Awards the Awards, launched and the Committee supported the introduction of a Here reputational risk in an effective and transparent manner, in 2012, are designed to enable Group employees to recognise forgood conduct test, as a key feature of this assessment.
consistent with the Board-approved Risk Tolerance Statement.
the team and individual who best represents Here for good.
162 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 163 Directors report Corporate governance Brand, Values and Conduct Committee The Committee continues to evaluate the progress being made that banking can be a force for good.
The Committee was Summary of the key themes identied in the 2014 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken in digital media and regularly reviews how various media mindful that, due to the Groups diverse geographic footprint, channels are being utilised to develop the brand.
The there are typically a number of supervisory matters or 2014 2013 Committee was pleased to note that the new brand advertising investigations ongoing at any time.
Each major issue receives Theme action identied Action plan for 2015 Theme action identied Actions taken campaign used 27 versions of visuals with animated pictures appropriate management attention and is reported to the that would be visible on multiple devices including tablets and relevant governance committee within the Group.
An in-depth Ensure committee members We will aim to hold more The Committee could benefit from a A brand session was held in March, mobile phones.
analysis into the government and regulatory relationships within have more in-depth, countrysessions on a range of topics, relevant local topic-focused session 2014 in Malaysia, focusing on the India was conducted, which allowed the Committee to gain related topic sessions covering including during overseas during overseas Board visits Groups brand position and In 2014, the Committee undertook thorough reviews into the its terms of reference Boardvisits development in Malaysia afuller appreciation of the government and regulatory context implementation of key strategic initiatives on brand governance inthis important market.
Continue to ensure input from We will continue to identify The Committee should hold a During 2014, the Committee held and measurement.
The formation of the combined global Brand senior representatives from the appropriate representatives discussion session with leading detailed discussions in respect of and Marketing function was the first significant step to improve Since January 2015, the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee business as well as seeking from the business to attend external practitioners on a topic the new brand campaign and its brand governance.
During the year, the Committee has focused has taken responsibility for the Groups compliance with any greater external expert input on specic parts of future within its mandate impact on the business.
This its attention on gaining clearer insights on the return on brand remediation or other commitments made in respect of any key topics where appropriate Committee meetings.
Specialist replaced the externally facilitated and marketing investment.
The Committee continues to support regulatory order, deferred prosecution agreement or other external input will be utilised to discussion session the use of comprehensive brand and marketing measurement disciplinary action taken in relation to the Group arising from, add value to key topics tools, which has been evidenced by the launch of a new project orin association with, money laundering, sanctions abuse, Given the Committees The Committee has considered The Committee should receive an While in Malaysia during an assessing end-to-end processes and identifying marketing bribery and corruption.
increased focus on conduct, its role and coverage of conduct update on how significant subsidiary overseas Board visit, the automation required for ongoing measurement.
The Committee ensure that its coverage over the year ahead and will boards and directors are addressing Committeeheld a session with will continue to receive updates on this initiative during 2015.
Committee linkages complements the role and ensure that conduct is covered areas within the Committees terms thelocal board directors, including responsibilities of other effectively, and potential gaps, of reference and agenda non-executive directors During the Boards visit to Malaysia in April 2014, the Committee Where there is a perceived overlap of responsibilities between Boardcommittees areas of duplication and was provided with an in-depth review of the Groups brand the Committee and other Board committees, such as the Board unnecessary complexity position and strategy.
It reviewed the contribution of the key Financial Crime Risk Committee, the Audit Committee and the areavoided sponsorship initiatives of LFC and the Kuala Lumpur marathon Board Risk Committee, the respective committee chairs have and was provided with context on factors affecting the brands the discretion to agree the most appropriate committee to full awareness in the market.
The Committee was satisfied to see any obligation.
There is a clear mapping of such overlapping examples of Here for good implementation.
items to ensure each committee focuses on its area of responsibility.
The linkages between committees are further We continue to maximise our LFC sponsorship asset and to use enhanced through the existence of cross-membership.
this to drive brand awareness across our markets where LFC and football have a wide appeal.
For example, the Standard Committee effectiveness review Chartered Trophy the Trophy tournament earned first prize forBest International Marketing Campaign at the BT Sports This year, the Committee undertook an internally facilitated Industry Awards.
The Trophys qualifying tournaments took effectiveness review, with input from executive management place across 14 markets in Asia, Africa, Europe and the and regular meeting participants.
asked to provide their thoughts and feedback on progress made by the Committee throughout 2014, suggestions for the Government and regulatory relationships Committees agenda in 2015 and any top-of-mind general thoughts on the Committees effectiveness overall.
Proactive The Committee has continued to oversee the Groups approach steps have been taken to consolidate the responses from the to its main government and regulatory relationships across our review and implement them into the Committees 2015 agenda major markets, noting the opportunities for the Group to engage to improve its future effectiveness.
positively with governments and policymakers, demonstrating 164 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 165
