Strategic report Operating and financial review North East Asia Greater China ASEAN South Asia MENAP Africa Europe Americas EIGHT REGIONS Our business Sharpening our focus and reshaping the business to better support our clients and deliver future growth Consumer Price Tracker.
These have been rolled out across anumber of key markets.
The indicators increase the amount of private sector information that is available and they add to the availability of information between ofcial data releases.
We operate in some of the most They help to position us as a trusted go-to advisor on Africa.
In Kenya and Nigeria, 200 businesses, active in different attractive markets in the world, segments of the economy, responded to our monthly survey, whichwill continue to represent providing an insight into business conditions.
Our Business Sentiment Indicators summarise, in a single number, how hugeopportunities for us optimistic businesses feel about current conditions and provide a gauge of overall economic conditions in the country.
The sub-indicators give us greater insight into what may be worrying the private sector.
Our Consumer Price Tracker uses crowd sourcing and cutting-edge mobile technology to gather information on the pricing of local products.
By analysing and comparing prices Mike Rees and the placement of everyday items, the Consumer Price Deputy Group Chief Executive Tracker delivers near real-time consumer price ination data.
Deepening our understanding of Africa to support Each month, hundreds of people in key Nigerian cities are ourclients engaged in capturing price information on their smartphones.
Aligning to deliver our strategy Africa faces a lack of economic data compared to international Each week, price information on approximately 15,000 Our client segments, product groups and regions In 2014, the external environment remained challenging for the markets, with many of the ofcial statistics often being out foodand beverage products is captured, aggregated, industry as a whole, with a number of structural shifts, such as ofdate.
prudential and conduct regulation and changing trade patterns, The lack of good economic data contributes to uncertainty, The use of this technology to overcome the lack of availability as well as cyclical headwinds, such as low interest rates, low increases the cost of doing business and creates challenges of timely price data is relatively new.
We are already using it volatility and commodity price uctuations.
Our performance with the formulation of policies, business investment and todeepen our understanding of the Nigerian economy, and was impacted by this environment as well as by a significant economic expansion.
It can also undermine the regions sharing that information with our clients.
programme of restructuring actions, and operating income investment potential.
fellby 2 per cent to $18.3 billion.
In line with our brand promise of being Here for good, the With the aim of addressing this issue, Standard Chartered information we now generate from our pioneering indicators Operating profit fell by 25 per cent to $5.2 billion, reecting partnered with two international research organisations stands to benefit governments, central banks, companies, theimpact of rising regulatory costs, an increase in loan MNIIndicators and Premise Data Corporation to launch two investors, analysts and economists.
impairments and actions taken to reshape and fide-risk the pioneering indicators: a Business Sentiment Indicator and a business.
We also made significant investments across the business to ensure exemplary conduct, including: training anddevelopment: recruitment processes and incentives: From a product perspective, we have moved from a model exiting: our Retail Clients businesses in Germany and Lebanon andspecic programmes focusing on combating financial whereby product groups typically served either Consumer or which we have sold: and our third-party sourcing channel for crimeandmoney laundering.
Wholesale Banking, to one where each product group serves Retail Clients which we either discontinued or brought 1 client needs across multiple segments.
This allows greater, giving us greater oversight of training, ensuring that in-house We are committed totaking further action to get back on sharing of our product and platform capabilities.
our Code of Conduct is adhered to, and that our standards atrack of sustainable, profitable growth, and we continue around responsible selling and marketing are upheld.
tomake progress in a number of areas.
Reshaping the business Theoverall impact on revenue from these actions is We understand and are responding to the challenges we face, around$450 million.
In 2014, in order to align more closely to the Groups strategic re-orientating to place greater emphasis on the areas of our intent, we sharpened our business focus, using vetests that We also looked at where we needed to become more business that represent the greatest opportunities.
The first we established in 2013. efficient, and in October 2014 announced a target of more thing we did in 2014, was to reorganise ourselves to align than$400 million in productivity improvements for 2015 across completely with the Groups strategic intent: banking the people The tests involve asking questions such as: does this business Retail Clients, Corporate & Institutional Clients and products and companies driving investment, trade and the creation of bank the people, companies and institutions that shape our and support functions.
wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
This is about markets future?
Does this business drive investment, trade client relationships, products and geographic focus, and it is andthe creation of wealth?
Is the business aligned with our In Retail Clients in particular, we are now executing the strategy Unlocking opportunities thefoundation of everything we do.
We are now organised to commitment to be Here for good?
Does the business at a much faster pace, with a greater focus on depth in key We are well placed to capture the opportunities that exist within have four client segments, supported by five product groups strengthen our position in Asia, Africa and the Middle East?
cities, digital and our afuent segments Priority and Business and between our client segments and product groups.
We are one bank with one business.
Andnally, does the business contribute to our earnings Clients.
We are focusing on creating greater efficiency, with growth, returns and capital accretion trajectory, and is the increased centralisation and standardisation of systems and Across all client segments our aim is to build sustainable, The reorganisation also created greater alignment within the business model sustainable?
processes, and technology upgrades to drive an increase in long-term and trusted relationships with our clients.
With the different areas of our business, allowing us to serve our clients straight-through processing and make better use of client creation of Commercial Clients, our segment for mid-sized better, grouping them logically and in line with their needs.
How we conduct ourselves and our business is an integral part data.
We are also restructuring our branch network with a corporates, we are now better able to deliver on this, serving Italso enabled us to streamline our support structure and of how we execute our strategy and how we live up to our brand shifttowards serving our clients when and where they need clients across different segments to meet their changing realise a number of cost efficiencies.
promise to be Here for good.
It is about doing what we should, usthrough digital channels.
needsas they diversify, grow and prosper.
This approach also enables us to drive referrals between We have made some tough decisions and trade-offs.
We found segments banking both the personal and business needs that there were some businesses that did not t with our ofour clients and draw on the capabilities from across the broader portfolio, such as our Consumer Finance businesses breadth of the business to bank the employees and supply inHong Kong, China and Korea which we are in the process of 1.
Except for the Philippines, which is currently under review chains of our clients.
30 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 31 FOUR CLIENT SEGMENTS Corporate & Institutional Clients Commercial Clients Private Banking Clients Retail Clients Corporate Finance Financial Markets Transaction Banking Wealth Management Retail Products FIVE PRODUCT GROUPS Strategic report Operating and financial review Our business 1 Consumer Internet Bank Award at the Global Finance Awards clients.
We also remain well positioned as the leading foreign foreign exchange, and cross-border payment ows in seven for the fourth year running.
correspondent bank in China and were voted Best Renminbi eligible offshore centres.
It provides us with greater insights Bank by The Asset, capturing the opportunity presented by the At the same time, we do face challenges.
We need to become and market knowledge to better help our clients understand offshore renminbi market.
and capitalise on the opportunities created by RMB more cost-efficient, simplifying and standardising, to make the most of our franchise.
To this end, we are freeing up resources Wealth Management: we have a resilient franchise internationalisation.
today to invest in the technologies we need for tomorrow, in underpinned by diversied income streams and strong According to the RGI, as of November 2014, it took only linewith the evolving needs and preferences of our clients.
As a result, Wealth Management has grown 17months for the offshore RMB market to double in size.
strongly year-on-year, with an increase in income of 17 per cent Our four client segments are supported by our five product and growth in assets under management of 13 per cent.
Using the data provided by the Index and working together groups.
As we shifted to a model whereby each product across client segments, product groups and geographies, groupsupports multiple segments, we reviewed and rened In March, we signed a multi-year deal to extend our wehave been able to provide greater support to our clients ourproduct group strategies to align with and support the bancassurance partnership with Prudential in Asia, providing tomeet their RMB needs.
We have also supported the UK clientsegment strategies, helping us to build deep and our clients with exclusive access to a wide range of products government in coordinating the first sales of UK government trustedrelationships.
across nine markets, reecting our aspiration to become debt denominated in RMB.
aleader in growing and protecting our clients wealth.
Corporate Finance: our Corporate Finance business is We are deepening and building trusted relationships with Thisresulted in a growth in bancassurance income.
We remain well positioned to play ourclients by advising on how they can better manage their aleading role in facilitating investment and deepening in Retail Products: Retail Products is a key source of deposits treasuries and cross-border payments.
We advised Jeju Air, a financial markets.
Income fell 1 per cent with significant for the Group and, with 88 per cent of Retail deposits coming Korean budget airline, to centralise RMB collections in China marketchallenges and high liquidity resulting in increased from current account savings accounts, it is critical for Helping our clients seize renminbi opportunities and then make cross-border payments to its RMB deposit repayment levels.
Income in Retail As the internationalisation of the renminbi RMB continues to account in Korea, without foreign exchange conversion.
Products was down by 4 per cent due to fide-risking actions, accelerate, so too does its importance to our clients as they Financial Markets: the resilience of Financial Markets is This is helping Jeju Air to reduce undue currency conversions regulatory changes and adverse mortgage market conditions seek to expand and grow cross-border business.
underpinned by the diversity of our products, clients and incertain markets.
There is substantial opportunity to bank the from RMB to dollars and nally into Korean won.
The airlines geographies, as well as a stable and efficient business model.
We created the Standard Chartered Renminbi Globalisation treasury staff can now decide to invest the RMB deposits or to growing afuent segments in key cities in our footprint.
Increasing volumes were offset by global margin compression Index RGI in 2012 to measure the pace of internationalisation exchange them into other currencies anoption they did not and a decline in own account income, resulting in a fall in overall Our footprint is a competitive differentiator and across the of the RMB.
The Index tracks RMB deposits, capital raising, have before.
clientsegment and product groups we saw network income grow by 3 per cent in Corporate & Institutional Clients, Transaction Banking: offering cash management, trade contributing to 58 per cent of client income.
Our largest Growing with people and companies Private Banking Clients: the reorganisation of our business andsecurities services, Transaction Banking recorded a fall originating regions are Europe, the Americas and South Asia.
sharpened the strategic prole of Private Banking by more inincome of 3 per cent.
Our goal is to deliver sustainable performance and grow with our Collaborating and delivering more effectively on our network effectively linking with the Commercial Clients opportunity clients.
To help us achieve this, we revisited our client segment Income remains very well diversied across client type and willremain a focus for us into 2015 and beyond.
andproviding greater support from product groups such strategies to reafrm and refresh our client-led approach.
Against tough market conditions, our franchise remains asFinancial Markets, Transaction Banking and Wealth strong, having been voted Best Global Transaction Bank by Corporate & Institutional Clients: accounting for 55 per cent Management.
With income growth of 4 per cent, which TheBanker and number one Transaction Bank in Asia by our 1.
East & Partners Asian Institutional Transaction Banking Study May 2014 Survey of client income, this segment serves our Financial Institution, includes the impact of exits in Korea and Geneva, Private and Global and Local Corporate Clients.
Income forthe Banking achieved the highest revenue growth of all the segment as a whole fell by 2 per cent as a result of challenging clientsegments.
market conditions and actions taken to reshape thebusiness.
for only 4 per cent of the worlds power supply with the bulk of To better address our clients specic needs, we reorganised this concentrated in South Africa and the North African region.
By simplifying our processes and ensuring that our systems are our front ofce, ne-tuned our proposition as a private bank This means that two out of three Sub-Saharan Africans more efficient, we have freed up more time for our people to forentrepreneurs and strengthened our focus on the private ornearly 600 million people lack access to electricity.
spend with clients, and this is yielding returns.
Our focus on banking of the families that own the companies making up deepening relationships has resulted in the average number of theCommercial Clients segment.
As part of our Power Africa commitment, we are providing products per client rising by 6 per cent, to 6.3, and the average advisory, nancing, debt-structuring services and policy Retail Clients: accounting for 33 per cent of income, the number of markets per client rising 7 per cent, to 2.8.
Through our participation, we RetailClients segment offers full retail banking services to over percentage of clients generating 80 per cent of our income expectto have a substantial impact by helping to add up 10 million individual and business clients across 34 markets.
increased to 19.7 per cent, up from 17.7 per cent in 2013. to7,500megawatts of generation capacity to Africas power Income rose by 2 per cent in 2014. grid in an effort to deliver electricity to more than 20 million Commercial Clients: established in April 2014, Commercial In 2014, we began to execute the Retail Clients strategy at a new households and companies by 2018.
Clients brought together the medium-sized enterprise much faster pace and reorganised the entire sales force around component of small and medium-sized enterprises SME To ensure continued economic growth in Africa, large-scale our three client groups Business Clients, Priority Clients and fromConsumer Banking with the Middle Market segment investments in power generation are required to sustain Personal Clients.
We also sharpened our focus on Priority and fromWholesale Banking.
This enabled us to sharpen focus momentum while creating better lives for people.
With our cross-border reach and products onserving the needs of mid-sized local companies at an early infrastructure in place, it will negatively impact competitiveness designed to meet their needs, we are extremely well positioned stage of their lifecycle, leveraging our cross-border network and hold back economic potential.
to do more with these two afuent client groups.
This is a capabilities to support their growth aspirations.
Bolstering investment in power generation across strategy that puts our clients at the centre of what we do and One of the projects under the initiative is the Azura-Edo Power Sub-Saharan Africa While we made excellent progress in establishing the segment, positions us for strong growth.
Our Employee Banking Project in Nigeria, which will harness the countrys domestic and improving our risk and controls, income fell by 22 per cent proposition banking the employees of our clients is a great We have made a $5 billion commitment to support the Power gas resources to generate 450 megawatts of additional power.
While external headwinds were example of this strategy in action, growing, in 22 markets, by The Okija Power Project is another example that will use Africa Initiative between the United States, six African challenging, a significant factor was the time and resource 15.3 per cent year-on-year to now account for 24.3 per cent governments and the private sector to help bolster investment domestic natural gas to generate 495 megawatts of committed to client due diligence remediation, client exits and ofRetail Clients revenue.
in power generation and improve access to clean, reliable fide-risking in the former SME business.
As we look to change power across Sub-Saharan Africa from 2013 to 2018.
Building better technology is another key element of our Retail Our participation in the Power Africa Initiative is a powerful our growth trajectory, we will focus on growing our reach Clients strategy and we continued to invest more in the digital A pressing concern for social and economic development in example of how we are making a material difference in the among those companies in our markets that are expanding and mobile channels that will deliver easy, convenient banking Africa is the lack of access to a reliable and clean energy communities where we operate, supporting the next stage of internationally, enhancing our systems and platforms and to our clients.
We were pleased to be awarded the Worlds Best supply.
The African subcontinent is underserved, accounting Africas growth, and helping to transform the regions prospects.
investing in and strengthening our frontline staff.
