Risk and Capital review Risk management approach hedges of net investments in overseas operations translated Policies and procedures This is intended to ensure that, in the unlikely event of an acute Internal organisation Three Lines of Defence tothe parent companys functional currency, dollars.
loss of confidence in the Group or any individual entity within it, Our liquidity risk management framework requires limits to be To implement the operational risk management approach in the there is sufficient time to take corrective action.
Every country We may also, under certain individually approved set for prudent liquidity management.
There are limits on: Group, the Group applies the Three Lines of Defence, as set out must pass, on a standalone basis, with no presumption of circumstances, enter into economic hedges that do not in the risk management framework.
O The local and foreign currency cash ow gaps Group support.
The Groups resilience to market-wide qualifyfor IAS 39 hedge accounting treatment, and which disruption, such as loss of interbank money or foreign The first line of defence has responsibility for identifying and O areaccordingly marked-to-market through the profit and loss The level of external wholesale funding, to ensure that the size exchangemarkets, is tested using the 30-day market-wide managing all risks within first line processes as an integral part account, thereby creating an accounting asymmetry.
These are of this funding is proportionate to the local market and our stress scenario, and is monitored by country Asset and of first line responsibilities.
entered into primarily to ensure that residual interest rate and local operations LiabilityCommittees.
foreign exchange risks are being effectively managed.
Current In the second line of defence, Group Operational Risk is O The level of borrowing from other countries within the Group, economic hedge relationships include hedging the foreign Finally, the 90-day stress test considers more prolonged responsible for setting and maintaining the standards for the to contain the risk of contagion from one country to another exchange risk on certain debt issuances and on other monetary stresses that affect markets across a number of the Groups operational risk management approach.
In addition, the second O instruments held in currencies other than dollars.
Commitments, both onand off-balance sheet, to ensure main footprint countries and in which the Group itself may line of defence comprises both second line risk control there are sufficient funds available in the event of drawdown comeunder some sustained pressure.
This pressure may be ownersof each operational risk sub-type and second line Liquidity risk unwarranted or may be because the Group is inextricably linked Group policy owners.
O The advances-to-deposits ratio, to ensure that commercial with those markets countries.
This stress is managed at a advances are funded by stable sources and that customer Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have sufficient The third line of defence is the independent assurance provided Group rather than individual country level.
It tests the adequacy financial resources available to meet our obligations as they lending is funded by customer deposits by the Group Internal Audit function, which has no management of contingency funding arrangements beyond the marketable falldue, or can only access these financial resources at responsibilities for any of the activities it examines.
Group O The amount of assets that may be funded from other securities held to cover the eight-day stress, including the ability excessive cost.
Internal Audit provides assurance that the overall system of currencies to support countries from elsewhere in the Group.
control effectiveness is working as required within the risk It is our policy to maintain adequate liquidity at all times, in all O The amount of medium-term assets that have to be funded Our country stress testing considers potential currency management framework.
See page 106 for more information geographic locations and for all currencies, and hence to be by medium-term funding mismatches between outows and inows.
Particular focus onthe Three Lines of Defence.
ina position to meet obligations as they fall due.
We manage ispaid to mismatches in less liquid currencies and those that liquidity risk both on a short-term and structural basis.
In the In addition, we prescribe a liquidity stress scenario that includes are not freely convertible.
Mismatches are controlled by Risk tolerance approach short term, our focus is on ensuring that the cash ow demands accelerated withdrawal of deposits over a period of time.
Each management action triggers set by MTCR.
Group-wide stress can be met when required.
In the medium term, the focus is on country has to ensure on a daily basis that cash inows would Operational risk is managed within tolerances aligned to achieve tests also consider the portability of liquidity surpluses between ensuring that the balance sheet remains structurally sound and exceed outows under such a scenario.
the Board-approved Risk Tolerance Statement.
The Group aims Group entities, taking account of regulatory restrictions on large is aligned to our strategy.
to control operational risks to ensure that operational losses All limits are reviewed at least annually, and more frequently and intra-group exposures.
financial or reputational, including any related to conduct The Group Asset and Liability Committee is the responsible ifrequired, to ensure that they remain relevant given market Standard Chartered Banks credit ratings as at December 2014 ofbusiness matters, do not cause material damage to the governing body that approves our liquidity management policies.
Compliance with limits is were AAnegative Fitch, A with negative outlook S&P and Groups franchise.
The Liquidity Management Committee receives authority from monitored independently on a regular basis by MTCR and A1 Moodys.
A downgrade in credit rating would increase the Group Asset and Liability Committee and is responsible for Finance.
Limit excesses are escalated and approved under In order to comply with this statement, the operational risk derivative collateral requirements and outows due to ratingsetting or delegating authority to set liquidity limits and proposing adelegated authority structure and reported to the country management approach includes the following requirements: linked liabilities.
The impact of a two-notch downgrade results liquidity risk policies.
Liquidity in each country is managed by Asset and Liability Committee.
Excesses are also reported O inan estimated outow of $2.1 billion.
The Group will systematically identify top risks and emerging the country Asset and Liability Committee within predened monthly to the Liquidity Management Committee, which risks with the involvement of the Board and senior liquidity limits and in compliance with Group liquidity policies providesfurther oversight.
Operational risk management to define the appropriate course of action, and practices, as well as local regulatory requirements.
MTCR We have significant levels of marketable securities, including including business restrictions and Group Treasury propose and oversee the implementation We define operational risk as the potential for loss resulting from government securities that can be monetised or pledged as O of policies and other controls relating to the above risks.
inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or All material processes will be mapped and owned with collateral in the event of a liquidity stress.
In addition, a Funding appropriate key control standards dened to mitigate risks from the impact of external events, including legal risks.
We seek to manage our liquidity prudently in all geographical Crisis Response and Recovery Plan FCRRP, reviewed and O locations and for all currencies.
Exceptional market events approved annually, is maintained by Group Treasury.
The As operational risk arises from all activities carried out within the The Group will not miss any opportunity to learn lessons from could impact us adversely, thereby potentially affecting our FCRRP strengthens existing governance processes by Group, the potential for operational risk events occurring across internal or external events and will implement relevant ability to full our obligations as they fall due.
The principal providing a broad set of Early Warning Indicators EWIs, an a large and complex international organisation is a constant mitigation actions uncertainties for liquidity risk are that customers withdraw their escalation framework and a set of management actions that challenge.
To address this we aim to achieve industrial O The Group will systematically test internal capital adequacy deposits at a substantially faster rate than expected, or that could be effectively implemented by the appropriate level of strength process and control design standards for all activities, through scenario analysis and stress testing asset repayments are not received on the expected maturity senior management in the event of a liquidity stress.
A similar and benchmark practices against peers, other industries and date.
To mitigate these uncertainties, we maintain a diverse and plan is maintained within each major country.
Risk classication largely customer-driven funding base, while our customer loans are mostly of short tenor.
In addition we have contingency Liquidity management stress scenarios Operational risk governance Risk types are the different ways that we may be exposed to funding plans including a portfolio of liquid assets that can be loss.
Each risk type is a grouping of potential losses that are The Group conducts a range of liquidity-related stress analyses, The Group Risk Committee provides oversight of operational realised if a liquidity stress occurs, as well as ready access to material, and which may arise in different activities or areas both for internal and regulatory purposes.
risk management across the Group.
It is supported by the wholesale funds under normal market conditions.
Global Business Risk Committee, the Group Functions Internally, three stress tests are run routinely: a severe eight-day Customer assets are, as far as possible, funded in the same Operational Risk Committee, the Group Financial Crime Risk The Group uses risk types principally as an aid to ensure name-specic stress, a 30-day market-wide stress and a currency.
Where mismatches arise, they are controlled by limits Committee and the Group Information Management comprehensive and consistent identication of risks, 90-day combined name-specic and market-wide stress.
in each country on the amount of foreign currency that can be Governance Committee, which oversee operational risk arising whereverthey may arise.
Operational risk types are listed Liquidity risks are also considered as part of the Groups wider swapped to local currency and vice versa.
Such limits are from the global businesses, Group functions, financial crime inthetable overleaf.
periodic scenario analysis, including reverse stress testing.
therefore a means of reducing the risk that obligations could compliance and information management respectively.
Inaddition, the Group runs a range of stress tests to meet notbe met in the required currency in the event that access to regulatory requirements, as dened by the PRA and local foreign exchange markets becomes restricted.
limits we consider a range of factors including: The eight-day stress is specically designed to determine a O The size and depth of local foreign exchange markets minimum quantity of marketable securities that must be held at O The local regulatory environment, particularly the presence all times in all countries.
This stress is computed daily, and the orrisk of imposition of foreign exchange controls minimum marketable securities requirement is observed daily.
