Risk and Capital review Risk management approach Country cross-border risk The Market and Traded Credit Risk Committee, under authority To assess their predictive power, VaR models are backtested Group Treasury market risk against actual results.
ultimately delegated by the Group Risk Committee, is responsible Country cross-border risk is the risk that we will be unable to Group Treasury raises debt and equity capital and the proceeds for setting business and desk-level value at risk VaR and stress obtain payment from our customers or third parties on their See an analysis of VaR and backtesting results in 2014 on are invested within the Group as capital or placed with ALM.
loss triggers for market risk within the levels set by the Group contractual obligations as a result of certain actions taken by pages 89 to 91.
Interest rate risk arises due to the investment of equity and Risk Committee.
The Market and Traded Credit Risk Committee foreign governments, chiey relating to convertibility and reserves into rate-sensitive assets, as well as some tenor is also responsible for policies and standards for the control transferability of foreign currency.
Stress testing mismatches between debt issuance and placements.
This risk ofmarket risk and overseeing their effective implementation.
is measured as the impact on net interest income NII of an Losses beyond the 97.5 per cent confidence interval are not The Group Risk Committee is responsible for our country These policies cover both trading and non-trading books of unexpected and instantaneous adverse parallel shift in rates cross-border risk limits and delegates the setting and theGroup.
captured by a VaR calculation, which therefore gives no and is monitored over a rolling one-year time horizon.
management of those limits to the Group Country Risk function.
indication of the size of unexpected losses in these situations.
The Market and Traded Credit Risk function approves the limits Seedetails in Market risk on page 92.
The business heads and country chief executive ofcers within delegated authorities and monitors exposures against MTCR complements the VaR measurement by weekly stress manage exposures within these limits and policies.
Countries These risks are monitored and controlled by the Groups Capital these limits.
Additional limits are placed on specic instruments testing of market risk exposures to highlight the potential risk designated as higher risk are subject to increased central Management Committee.
and position concentrations where appropriate.
Sensitivity that may arise from extreme market events that are rare but monitoring.
measures are used in addition to VaR as risk management tools.
Group Treasury also manages the structural foreign exchange Assets that generate country cross-border exposure are those For example, interest rate sensitivity is measured in terms of risk that arises from non-US dollar currency net investments in Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk management where the main source of repayment or security is derived from exposure to a one basis point increase in yields, whereas foreign branches and subsidiaries.
The impact of foreign exchange framework and considers both historical market events and a country other than the country in which the asset is booked.
exchange, commodity and equity sensitivities are measured in movements is taken to reserves which form part of the capital forward-looking scenarios.
A consistent stress-testing These cover a wide range of products, including loans and terms of the underlying values or amounts involved.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital methodology is applied to trading and non-trading books.
advances, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, trade are controlled through revaluation limits on underlying price and ratio is partially mitigated by the fact that both the value of these Thestress-testing methodology assumes that scope for andother bills, acceptances, amounts receivable under finance volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk and other variables that investments and the risk-weighted assets in those currencies management action would be limited during a stress event, leases, derivatives, certicates of deposit and other negotiable determine the options value.
follow broadly the same exchange rate movements.
With the reecting the decrease in market liquidity that often occurs.
paper, investment securities and formal commitments.
approval of the Capital Management Committee, Group Treasury Cross-border assets also include exposures to local residents VaR Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reect changes in risk may hedge the net investments if it is anticipated that the capital denominated in currencies other than the local currency prole and economic events.
The Market and Traded Credit ratio will be materially affected by exchange rate movements.
We measure the risk of losses arising from future potential andlocal-currency assets funded by intra-group funding.
Risk function reviews stress exposures and, where necessary, Changes in the valuation of these positions are taken to adverse movements in market rates, prices and volatilities using Cross-border exposure also includes the value of commodity, enforces reductions in overall market risk exposure.
See details in Market risk on page 109. a VaR methodology.
VaR, in general, is a quantitative measure aircraft and shipping assets owned by the Group that are held Risk Committee considers the results of stress tests as part of of market risk that applies recent historical market conditions in a given country.
its supervision of risk tolerance.
Derivatives toestimate the potential future loss in market value that will not be exceeded in a set time period at a set statistical confidence Regular stress-test scenarios are applied to interest rates, credit Derivatives are contracts with characteristics and value derived Market risk level.
VaR provides a consistent measure that can be applied spreads, exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
from underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange rates Market risk is the potential for loss of earnings or economic across trading businesses and products over time and can be This covers all asset classes in the Financial Markets banking or indices.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and options value due to adverse changes in financial market rates or set against actual daily trading profit and loss outcome.
Derivatives are an important risk management tool prices.
The Groups exposure to market risk arises for banks and their clients because they can be used to VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared, reecting specic market predominantly from providing clients access to financial manage market price risk.
The market risk of derivatives is ofone business day and to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
conditions and for particular concentrations of risk that arise markets, facilitation of which entails the Group taking moderate managed in essentially the same way as other traded products.
This confidence level suggests that potential daily losses, in within the business.
All trading teams support client activity: excess of the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced six Our derivative transactions are principally in instruments where there are no proprietary trading teams.
Hence, income earned times per year.
Market risk VaR coverage the mark-to-market values are readily determinable by reference from market risk-related activities is broadly stable.
Market risk to independent prices and valuation quotes.
also arises in the non-trading book from the requirement to hold We apply two VaR methodologies: Interest rate risk from non-trading book portfolios is transferred a large liquid assets buffer of high-quality liquid debt securities to Financial Markets where it is managed by local Asset and We enter into derivative contracts in the normal course of O Historical simulation: involves the revaluation of all existing and from the translation of non-US dollar denominated assets, Liability Management ALM desks under the supervision of business to meet client requirements and to manage our positions to reect the effect of historically observed changes liabilities and earnings.
local Asset and Liability Committees.
ALM deals in the market exposure to uctuations in market price movements.
in market risk factors on the valuation of the current portfolio.
in approved financial instruments in order to manage the net The primary categories of market risk for the Group are: This approach is applied for general market risk factors and Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance interest rate risk, subject to approved VaR and risk limits.
the majority of specic credit spread risk VaR sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Recognition of O Interest rate risk: arising from changes in yield curves, credit VaR and stress tests are therefore applied to these non-trading fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives O spreads and implied volatilities on interest rate options Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology is similar to book exposures except Group Treasury, see below in the are classied as trading or held for hedging purposes.
historical simulation but with considerably more input risk O Currency exchange rate risk: arising from changes in same way as for the trading book, including available-for-sale factor observations.
These are generated by random The credit risk arising from all financial derivatives is managed exchange rates and implied volatilities on FX Options securities.
Securities classed as Loans and Receivables or sampling techniques, but the results retain the essential as part of the overall lending limits to financial institutions and Held-to-maturity are not reected in VaR or stress tests since O Commodity price risk: arising from changes in commodity variability and correlations of historically observed risk factor corporate clients.
This is covered in more detail in the Credit risk they are accounted for on an amortised cost basis, so market prices and commodity option implied volatilities: covering changes.
This approach is applied for some of the specic section on page 73. price movements have limited effect on either profit and loss or energy, precious metals, base metals and agriculture credit spread risk VaR in relation to idiosyncratic exposures reserves.
in credit markets Hedging O Equity price risk: arising from changes in the prices of Structural foreign exchange risks are managed by Group equities, equity indices, equity baskets and implied volatilities In both methods a historical observation period of one year is Countries within the Group use futures, forwards, swaps and Treasury, as described below, and are not included within on related options chosen and applied.
options primarily to mitigate interest and foreign exchange risk Group VaR.
Otherwise, the non-trading book does not run open arising from their in-country exposures.
The Group also uses VaR is calculated as our exposure as at the close of business, foreign exchange positions.
Market risk governance futures, forwards and options to hedge foreign exchange and generally UK time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from those Equity risk relating to non-listed private equity and strategic interest rate risk.
The Board approves the Groups risk tolerances for market risk.
reported at the end of the day.
investments is not included within VaR.
It is separately managed Subject to the risk tolerances set for market risk, the Group In accounting terms under IAS 39, hedges are classied into A small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions through delegated limits for both investment and divestment, RiskCommittee sets Group-level market risk limits and stress three types: fair value hedges, predominantly where xed rates is not included in VaR or cannot be appropriately captured by and is also subject to regular review by an investment loss triggers.
of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for oating rates: VaR.
This is recognised through a Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV committee.
cash ow hedges, predominantly where variable rates of framework, which estimates these risks and applies capital These are included as Level 3 assets, as disclosed in note 15 interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for xed rates: and add-ons.
to the financial statements 112 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 113
