Risk and Capital review Risk prole Principal uncertainties The Groups prole of operational loss events in 2013 and 2014 Itshows the percentage distribution of gross operational losses The management of risk lies at the heart of Financial markets dislocation is also summarised by Basel event type in the table below.
by Basel event type: StandardChartereds business.
We seek to contain There is a risk that a sudden financial market dislocation, % Loss andmitigate risks to ensure they remain within our perhaps as a result of a tightening of monetary policy in the risktolerance and are adequately compensated for.
Distribution of operational losses by Basel event type 2014 2013 major economies, a deterioration of the sovereign debt crisis in Business disruption and system failures 2.1 1.1 An overview of our risk prole is set out in pages 60 to 100 and the eurozone or a geo-political event, could signicantly our approach to risk management is set out in pages 105 to 117. increase general financial market volatility.
This could affect our Clients products and business practices 18.4 35.9 performance or the availability of capital or liquidity.
In addition, Employment practices and workplace safety 0.1 0.9 The key uncertainties we face in the current year are set out 1 reduction of monetary intervention by the US Federal Reserve, Execution delivery and process management 48.0 38.2 below.
This should not be regarded as a complete and or other central banks, could disrupt external funding for some 2 External fraud 31.2 18.2 comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties economies, leading to lower growth and financial market Internal fraud 0.2 5.7 that we may experience.
These factors may have an impact on the mark-to- 1.
Includes the civil monetary penalty market valuations of assets in our available-for-sale and trading Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions in footprint 2.
Includes the China commodities fraud portfolios.
The potential losses incurred by certain clients countries holding derivative contracts during periods of financial market Operational losses are one indicator of the effectiveness and of exposures or aggregation of risks and may also be a gross Macroeconomic conditions have an impact on personal volatility could also lead to an increase in disputes and robustness of the operational risk control environment.
In risk, triggering any one of a set of ltering criteria.
expenditure and consumption, demand for business products corporate defaults.
At the same time, financial market instability addition, lessons learned reviews and root cause analyses from and services, the debt-service burden of consumers and could cause some financial institution counterparties to Emerging risks are also considered, both internally from the external and internal loss events, including near misses, are businesses, the general availability of credit for retail and experience tighter liquidity conditions, or even fail.
There is no Groups internal operational risk prole and from external used to improve processes and controls.
corporate borrowers, and the availability of capital and liquidity certainty that government action to reduce the systemic risk will events.
Where relevant, an emerging risk may be categorised funding for our business.
All these factors may impact our be successful and it may have unintended consequences.
and prioritised as a top risk for specic monitoring.
Top risks and emerging risks performance.
We stress test our market risk exposures to highlight the Given their signicance, top risks attract closer scrutiny from A top risk is a risk exposure, or a group of highly correlated risk The world economy is coming out of a difficult period and potential impact of extreme market events on those exposures top levels of management and governance committees.
exposures, that has the highest potential to breach the Groups uncertainty remains.
The unwinding of the US Federal Reserves and to confirm that they are within authorised stress loss Toprisks are expected to change over time based on top-down risk capacity.
The objective is to identify those risks that can quantitative easing programme could lead to higher interest triggers.
Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reect assessments by senior management.
materially impact the Groups risk capacity, and to calibrate rates, volatility in financial markets and capital ight from changes in risk prole and economic events.
Where necessary, metrics as early warning indicators against undesirable The Groups operational top risks as at 31 December 2014 emerging markets, which may threaten the growth trajectory overall reductions in market risk exposure are enforced.
We outcomes and performance under stress.
Top risk candidates areshown in the table below.
Chinas slowing economic closely monitor the performance of our financial institution are identied through a top-down assessment of concentration growth and the rebalancing of the economy may depress prices counterparties and adjust our exposure to these counterparties and trade in a number of commodity sectors such as energy, as necessary.
We maintain robust processes to assess the Top risks metals and mining, and a deeper and more prolonged appropriateness and suitability of products and services we slowdown could have wider economic repercussions.
provide to clients to mitigate the risk of disputes.
Macro-prudential, regulatory and external risks Internal processes, systems and change risks Supply shocks can result in weak or volatile commodity prices, Geo-political events O O Regulatory non-compliance Change management which in turn can damage the economic growth prospects or sovereign creditworthiness of commodity-exporting countries.
We operate in a large number of markets around the world, O O Anti-money laundering Data management andour performance is in part reliant on the openness of The sovereign crisis in the eurozone is not fully resolved and, O O International sanctions and terrorist nancing Major systems failure cross-border trade and capital ows.
We face a risk that although some risks have been addressed by ongoing policy geo-political tensions or conicts in our footprint could impact O O External fraud significant business interruption initiatives, there is still a need for substantial new structural trade ows, our customers ability to pay, and our ability to reform see additional information on the risk of redenomination O O Information and cyber security Rogue trading manage capital or operations across borders.
The proposed UK referendum on membership O O Critical third-party vendors Internal fraud ofthe European Union EU would bring further economic We actively monitor the political situation in all our principal andpolitical uncertainty.
We also monitor the development of broader O O Additional conduct including bribery and corruption Manipulation of market data submission geo-political events such as in Ukraine, the Middle East and Our exposure to eurozone sovereign debt is very low.
However, O Mis-selling territorial disputes in North East Asia.
We conduct stress tests we remain alert to the risk of secondary impacts from events on the impact of extreme but plausible geo-political events on O Product management onnancial institutions, other counterparties and global our performance, and the potential for such events to economic growth.
O Collateral management jeopardise our ability to operate within our stated risk appetite.
Ination and property prices appear to be under control in most Further details on stress testing are given on page 107. of the countries in which we operate, though some central Other risks Pension risk banks are already employing macro-prudential tools to temper Risk of fraud and other criminal acts Reputational risk Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an property price increases.
Changes in monetary policy could The banking industry has long been a target for third parties actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
lead to significant increases in interest rates from their currently Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups seeking to defraud, disrupt legitimate economic activity, or Seefurther pension disclosure in Risk management approach low historical levels, with resulting impacts on the wider franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on facilitate other illegal activities.
Concerns about cyber crime on page 117. economy and on property values.
market capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a have risen signicantly, driven in part by geo-political events.
negative view of the Group or its actions.
Failures in behaviours We balance risk and return, taking account of changing Cyber crime risks include fraud, vandalism and damage to or systems may affect stakeholders perceptions of the Groups conditions through the economic cycle, and monitor economic critical infrastructure.
commitment to its Here for good brand promise.
trends in our markets very closely.
We conduct stress tests to While the internet and networked technologies have provided assess the effects of extreme but plausible trading conditions on A summary of our current practices regarding reputational major opportunities for digitising business, they have also our portfolio and also continuously review the suitability of our riskmanagement is provided in Risk management approach givenrise to significant risks as well-equipped and motivated risk policies and controls.
We manage credit exposures following onpage117.
The incidence of cyber the principle of diversication across products, geographies crime is rising, becoming more globally coordinated, and is andclient segments.
This provides strong resilience against achallenge for all organisations.
economic shocks in one or more of our portfolios.
