Directors report Corporate governance Board Risk Committee Who sits on the Board Risk Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Other attendees at Committee meetings include: meetings: 6 meetings: 2 In 2014, the Board Risk Committee Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: Group Chief Risk officer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Group Company Secretary: Dr L H Thunell appointed Chair on 1 April 2014 6 6 2 2 hasbeen proactive in ensuring that Group Treasurer: and Group statutory auditors.
1 O P Bhatt 5 6 2 2 As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee meeting, the therisks facing the Group are well N Kheraj appointed on 1 January 2014 6 62 2 Committee has private members-only meetings.
P D Skinner, CBE 6 6 2 2 understood and that steps are being Directors who stepped down during 2014 15 taken to mitigate these 1.
Om Bhatt was unable to attend the scheduled meeting on 14 May 2014 due to prior J F T Dundas stepped down as Chair on 1 April 2014 and 2 2 business engagements from the Committee on 1 May 2014 0 1 0 1 2.
Jamie Dundas was unable to attend the ad hoc meeting on 24 February 2014 and R H P Markham stepped down on 1 May 2014 1 1 1 1 the scheduled meeting on 2 April 2014 due to ill health 3 3 3.
Simon Lowth was unable to attend the ad hoc meeting on 9 July 2014 and the S J Lowth stepped down on 1 January 2015 4 6 1 2 scheduled meetings on 28 July and 4 December 2014 due to prior business R Markland stepped down on 1 January 2015 6 6 2 2 engagements Dr Lars Thunell 4.
Oliver Stocken was unable to attend the ad hoc meeting on 9 July 2014 due to prior 4 O H J Stocken, CBE stepped down on 28 February 2015 6 6 1 2 business engagements Chair of the Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder exposures.
The Committee discussed the findings of these The Committees composition and role Risk information provided to the Committee reviews and the actions taken.
I became Chair on 1 April 2014, having joined the The Committees composition reects the Groups belief that it The Committee tracks a wide range of risk metrics through a Committee on 1 February 2013.
I would like to thank As part of the multi-year Board succession plan, the is essential that the Committee benefit from a deep and broad risk information report.
This report provides an overview of the theprevious Committee Chair, Jamie Dundas, for Committees composition continued to evolve during 2014. experience of banking and of the risk factors affecting it, but Groups overall risk prole against the Groups Risk Tolerance hisvaluable contribution to the Committee since its Inaddition to Jamie Dundas stepping down, Rudy Markham also from the experience from other industries and professions.
Statement, and provides a breakdown of risk exposures for creation in March 2010. also stepped down from the Board and the Committee in 2014 each of the major risk types, including credit risk by client Further details of the Committee members experience can be and Simon Lowth and Ruth Markland stepped down from the segment, market, liquidity, capital risk, cross-border, The overarching objective of the Committees work is to found on pages 128 to 131.
Committee as a result of joining the newly established Board reputational and pension risk.
The Committee also receives maintain assurance that the Group continues to operate within Financial Crime Risk Committee further details of this new To guard against gaps or unnecessary duplication between the reports on portfolio trends, policies and standards and stress the Board-approved strategy and Risk Tolerance Statement, Committee can be found on page 169.
Oliver Stocken also Board committees, there is overlapping membership between testing.
The Committee is authorised to investigate or seek any and that the Groups risk management systems and controls stepped down from the Committee on 28 February 2015. the Board Risk Committee and the Audit, Remuneration, Brand, information relating to any activity within its terms of reference.
are properly structured and implemented.
In 2014, together with Values and Conduct, and Board Financial Crime Risk Committees.
theGroup Chief Risk officer, as Committee Chair I jointly Iwould like to take this opportunity to thank Rudy, Simon, A report from the Group Chief Risk officer is presented at every sponsored an exercise to review the Groups risk management Ruthand Oliver for their valuable contribution to the Committee.
The Committees role is to exercise oversight on behalf of the scheduled meeting.
These reports cover the macroeconomic and risk management frameworks.
Further details can be found Naguib Kheraj joined the Committee on 1 January 2014.
Board of Group enterprise-wide risk, and to provide assurance environment, geo-political outlook and ongoing risks such as on pages 105 to 107 of the Risk and Capital review.
Naguibs membership has brought extensive international to the Board that the overall framework for complying with the the ongoing growth challenges in the eurozone, the escalation banking, finance and business leadership experience to the Risk Management Principles and Risk Tolerance Statement is of sanctions against and from Russia, and slower growth in Given the continuing challenging macroeconomic conditions Committee.
In the few instances where it does not Indias and Chinas economy.
In addition to these regular and the pace and complexity of changing regulatory have primary oversight for a given type of risk, the Committee reports, at every scheduled meeting, the Committee also requirements, the Board Risk Committee has been proactive I can confirm that the information that the Committee has interacts closely with the other Board committees where the receives a report from the Group Treasurer, which covers inensuring that the risks facing the Group are well understood received has been balanced, appropriate and timely, and remits of those other committees clearly cover risk-related market developments, liquidity, capital, recovery and resolution and that steps are being taken to mitigate these.
hasenabled the Committee to full its remit.
For example, the Audit Committee has oversight of the planning, rating agency and international regulatory updates.
For example, as a result of the slower economic growth Groups internal financial controls, the Remuneration Committee Such information enables the Committee to discuss with intheChinese and Indian economies and the subsequent has oversight of the risks relating to remuneration, the Brand, management the major risks faced by the Group across the reduction indemand for commodities, the Committee has Values and Conduct Committee has oversight of the Groups business and geographies.
received reports on how the Group is actively managing its mechanisms by which reputational risk is managed, and the commodity credit exposure.
Further details can be found newly established Board Financial Crime Risk Committee has The Committee has had deeper discussions in 2014 on the onpages 62 and63 of theRiskand Capital review.
Dr Lars Thunell oversight responsibilities in relation to financial crime following topics: Chair of the Board Risk Committee compliance matters.
This interaction helps the Committee to O In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee has Market and traded credit risk ensure that it is well-informed as to the discussions held, and recognised the challenges facing the Group.
We have O the close collaboration of the Committee Chairs helps to ensure Retail credit risk considered and discussed the findings from internal reviews that there are no gaps and any potential for unnecessary O ofthe Groups largest exposures and the actions taken to Corporate & Institutional Clients credit risk duplication is avoided.
O Long-term balance sheet trends In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee is closely In addition to the regular stress testing and overall compliance O supported by the Group Chief Risk officer, Group Finance Cyber crime security and data leakage with risk appetite, a particular area of focus for the Committee Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and Group Treasurer, O during the year has been the results of a new stress test of the Unsatisfactory operational risk events together with other business functions on risks within their banking system.
This focused on the eight largest UK financial respective areas of responsibility.
institutions and was introduced by the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England BoE.
Further details can be found on page 116 of the Risk and Capital review.
At the Committees request, internal reviews were undertaken by Group Internal Audit concerning two of the Groups large 156 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 157 Directors report Corporate governance Board Risk Committee As part of the overseas Board meeting held in Malaysia in April The Groups Code of Conduct sets the standards for individual Operational risk Interaction with management 2014, the Committee held a meeting at which, in addition to the behaviour.
The Groups management of operational risk continues to be On a regular basis, Lars Thunell, as Committee Chair, meets regular updates, a focused discussion was held with local The Committee discussed the findings of the Group Internal enhanced.
The Committee has been updated in relation to the individually with the Group Chief Risk officer and Group Head management concerning the challenges, opportunities, risks Audits independent assessment of managements control of its Groups Operational Risk Transformation Programme.
These meetings allow free discussion of any and mitigants, and the proactive steps taken in relation to risk own business activities.
The assessment provided assurance transformation programme is designed to enable the Group to matters relating to issues arising from the Committees formal management in Malaysia.
that the overall system of control effectiveness is working as identify any processes that are operating outside of acceptable discussions.
In addition, as Committee Chair, Lars addressed Given the increased levels of early alerts and impairments, required within the risk management framework.
parameters in a timely fashion and to rectify any causes for the Risk functions internal conference which was attended by theCommittee has focused on reviewing the Groups larger deviation well in advance of any material problem developing.
The presentation Further details regarding the risk management framework exposures and those exposures relating to industry segments Ahigh-level operational risk-roll-out plan was originally tabled covered the Boards view of the Groups Risk function, the canbe found on page 105 of the Risk and Capital review that are cyclical.
tothe Committee in October 2013 and work under this current environment, the strengths of the Risk function, and the programme is scheduled for completion by the end of March challenges and opportunities for the function.
The Committee focused on the following at its meetings in 2014: Capital and liquidity 2015.
The framework will bring further rigour in the identication The Committee has assessed the effectiveness, resourcing and of risk processes capable of producing unsatisfactory At every scheduled meeting, the Committee considers and Risk tolerance independence of judgement of the Groups risk management discusses the Groups capital and liquidity position and the operational risk outcomes that are material to the Group.
function, especially in light of the changes to the Groups risk Every year the Committee pays careful attention to the regulatory environment and expectations.
The Committee has The Committee has discussed the top operational risks facing management function following the strategic reorganisation.
formulation of the Groups Risk Tolerance Statement, in order to been provided with an update on the performance statistics for the Group and the action being taken or to be taken to mitigate assure itself that it is effective in setting appropriate boundaries the internal ratings-based IRB models in line with regulation them.
The operational risks include macro-prudential, regulator Interaction with regulators in respect of all main risk types.
The Groups Risk Tolerance that requires performance monitoring for IRB models be an and external risks, together with internal processes, systems Statement defines the maximum level of risk the Group is The Committee met with one of the Groups UK lead regulators, essential part of senior management reporting.
The Committee and change risks.
Further details of these can be found on ordinarily willing to take in pursuit of its strategy, in accordance the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The purpose of the has considered the Groups Individual Liquidity Adequacy page100 of the Risk and Capital review.
Operational losses with its Risk Principles.
Risk tolerance constrains risk to the meeting was to enable a discussion between the Committee Assessment, which considers the Groups liquidity position, its areone indicator of the effectiveness and robustness of the levels where the potential for any financial or reputational and the PRA concerning prudentially focused topics such as framework and whether sufficient liquidity resources are being operational risk control environment.
In addition internal reviews damage is consistent with the sustained pursuit of strategy and financial markets risk oversight and the Operational Risk maintained to meet liabilities as they fall due.
In addition to and root-cause analyses from external and internal loss events, in line with the reasonable expectations of stakeholders.
receiving regular liquidity updates, the Committee reviews the including near misses, are used to improve processes and behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews a range of focused liquidity risk stress-testing framework and assumptions together controls.
risk tolerance assessments and stress tests which consider Ongoing training and development with the results of the liquidity stress tests.
With regard to More details concerning the Groups approach to alignment with the Groups Risk Tolerance Statement.
capital, the Committee reviewed and discussed in detail the In conjunction with the Audit Committee, a half-day informal operationalrisk can be found on pages 115 to 117 Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment in order to Previously, the Groups Risk Tolerance Statement was referred session, to which all directors were invited, was held.
The oftheRiskand Capital review satisfy itself that the Groups approach to capital planning is to as the Group Risk Appetite Statement.
During the year, the session covered structurally subordinated holding company comprehensive, rigorous and consistent with both the current Committee Chair and the Group Chief Risk officer jointly lending, economics of large underwriting and single-name Risk management disclosures regulatory requirements and with developments under Basel III sponsored an exercise to review the Groups risk management concentrations.
In addition and also in conjunction with the or other likely regulatory initiatives.
The Committee has reviewed the risk disclosures in the Annual and risk appetite frameworks.
In conducting this exercise, the Audit Committee, an informal discussion session was held Further details concerning capital can be found on Report and Accounts and the Half Year Reports and has expertise of external consultants Oliver Wyman was drawn oninformation and cyber security.
pages118to 125 and liquidity can be found on pages 114 reviewed and approved the disclosure on the work of the upon.
The Committee reviewed and discussed the risk to117 of the Risk and Capital review Committee.
In reviewing the operational risk disclosures made management principles, which are part of the risk management in this years Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee has framework, and specically supported the proposal to the Stress testing taken into consideration The Financial Stability Boards Board that these incorporate more explicit statements on guidelines on principles and recommendations on disclosure conduct of business.
In addition, the Committee discussed and The Committee tracks a wide range of risk metrics which are contained in the Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks recommended to the Board: also periodically reported to the Board.
Stress testing and report issued by the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force EDTF O An updated Risk Appetite Statement, which was renamed scenario analysis are used to assess the financial and in October 2012.
In addition, a comparison of the Groups 2013 theRisk Tolerance Statement management capability of the Group to continue to operate disclosures with those published by peers was conducted.
effectively under extreme but plausible trading conditions.
O The operational and financial risks that were proposed as Asaresult of the review, enhancements in relation to the TheCommittee maintains oversight of the Groups overall Groups operational risk disclosures have been made.
In toprisks stress-testing programme, reviewing the design, key conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Committee also O Risk tolerances for those top risks that represent hard assumptions and the outcomes of principal tests.
In 2014, the reviewed the Basel II Pillar 3 annual disclosure.
constraints within which the Group must contain its risks regular stress testing of overall compliance with risk tolerance, capital adequacy and mandatory annual Reverse Stress Tests Committee reporting to the Board The Committee has satisfied itself that the Group remains within which were individually discussed by the Committee.
The its Risk Tolerance Statement, with a strong capital and liquidity The Board received summaries of the risk information report Committee also discussed the results of a new stress test of the position that can be shown to be resilient to stress.
banking systems, focused on the eight largest UK banks and and minutes of the Committee meetings.
Building on the Further details regarding the Groups Risk Tolerance approach adopted in 2013, there has also been formal periodic introduced by the Financial Policy Committee of the BoE.
The Statement can be found on page 14 of the Strategic report results were discussed at an ad hoc Committee meeting and risk reporting to the Board in 2014 on risk issues, in addition to an overview from the Committee Chair on the areas of focus reported prior to their submission to the Board and then to the BoE.
forthe Committee, together with its main activities and the Risk management framework discussions held by the Committee in relation to the half and Further details of stress testing can be found on page 107 During 2014, Group Internal Audit conducted an independent fullyear results.
ofthe Risk and Capital review assessment of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management framework provides the architecture for the overall management and control of all risks and for the implementation of the risk management principles.
An early alert is the process for proactive identication and management of counterparty exposures exhibiting signs of weakness of a material nature requiring monitoring, supervision or close attention by management 158 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 159
