Directors report Corporate governance These changes follow on from previous executive changes to This year, the Remuneration Committee has been particularly Our approach to governance disclosures The role of the Board and its committees the Board since last year, when we announced as part of the focused on responding to shareholder concerns raised at last Throughout this report we have sought to give an insight into The Board is accountable for the long-term success of the strategic reorganisation that two of our executive directors, years annual general meeting in respect of directors the importance placed on exemplary governance across the Group and is responsible for ensuring leadership within a Steve Bertamini and Richard Meddings, would step down remuneration and specic elements of the remuneration policy.
Group and to demonstrate a genuine understanding of how framework of effective controls, while approving the strategy, fromthe Board.
They stepped down in March and June 2014 The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a series of corporate governance supports our decisions and guides our and that the Group is suitably resourced to achieve its strategic respectively.
In July 2014, we were delighted to welcome consultations and meetings with representatives from over half behaviours within Standard Chartered.
In doing so, the Board considers its responsibilities AndyHalford as our new Group Finance Director.
of our shareholder register to better understand the issues, and to, and the impact of its decisions on, the Groups stakeholders has put in place measures to address these.
More detail on the There have also been a number of changes to non-executive Code compliance including the Groups employees, shareholders, suppliers, the activities of the Remuneration Committee and the policy can representation on the Board since last year.
We welcomed environment and the communities in which it operates.
We apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Byron Grote to the Board in July 2014 as an independent The Board also delegates certain responsibilities to its Code 2012 issued by the Financial Reporting Council non-executive director.
Byron brings considerable international, I am confident that the actions we have taken as a Board will committees to assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring theCode.
We also apply the Hong Kong Corporate business leadership and financial experience to the Board.
address our immediate performance challenges and reposition independent oversight.
The Board agreed a number of changes Governance Code as set out in Appendix 14 of the Hong the Group for its new phase of growth.
The changes we have It was with regret that, for personal reasons, John Paynter, to its committee structure during 2014 to ensure it is more Kong Listing Rules and have complied with its code put in place to the Boards composition, in line with our broader independent non-executive director, decided to step down with effectively aligned to support the work of the Board and provides provisions, save that the Board Risk Committee is multi-year succession plan, fully support the ongoing execution effect from 31 December 2014 after six years on the Board.
a more comprehensive framework of oversight.
Details of the responsible for the oversight of internal control other than of our refreshed strategy.
At the same time, we remain focused Oliver Stocken, who agreed to remain on the Board for a short changes are set out on pages 147 and 148. internal control over financial reporting and risk on raising the bar on conduct across every part of the Group period following Johns departure, retired from the Board in management systems Hong Kong Corporate Governance and delivering on our commitment to be Here for good.
The Board also delegates authority for the operational February 2015 having served over 10 years as an independent Code provision C. 3.3 paragraphs f, g and h. If there management of the Groups business to the Group Chief non-executive director.
I would like to thank both John and were no Board Risk Committee, these matters would be Executive or further delegation by him in respect of matters Oliver for their highly valuable contributions and commitment.
the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running and We announced in February 2015 the appointment to the management of the business.
Subject to the below, the directors confirm that the Group Boardof two new independent non-executive directors, has complied with all of the provisions of the Code during With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Gay Huey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread.
Between them the year ended 31 December 2014.
By way of explanation Sir John Peace Committee which, in keeping with the provisions of the UK theybring extensive banking, risk, business leadership we advise that: Chairman Corporate Governance Code, is chaired by the Group Chairman, andinternational experience with a deep knowledge and allofthe Board committees are made up of independent Oliver Stocken did not seek re-election at the 2014 AGM understanding of our key markets.
They also provide non-executive directors and play a key role in supporting the as he was due to step down from the Board before the furthervaluable diversity of insight and perspective to the Board.
In addition to comprising five independent non-executive end of 2014.
However, following John Paynter stepping Boarddebate.
directors, the Board Financial Crime Risk Committees down from the Board in December 2014 and to support At the same time, we also announced the retirement of our membership includes three independent external advisors.
the smooth transition of the Boards composition, Oliver twolongest-standing independent non-executive directors, Further details of the changes to these committees, including agreed to remain on the Board for a short period, before Ruth Markland and Paul Skinner.
Both Ruth and Paul have membership changes, can be found on pages 150 to 209, along stepping down on 28 February2015.
beenincredibly dedicated and supportive members of the with an update from the Chairs on the work of their committees Board, providing wise counsel to the Group for over 10 years.
Richard Meddings did not seek re-election at the 2014 AGM following an announcement made in January 2014 The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, Finally, we announced at the same time that it is my intention to that he would step down from the Board in June 2014. along with written terms of reference for all the Boards step down from the Board during the course of 2016 after nine committees, can be viewed at sc.
com years on the Board, with seven years as Chairman.
This timing We have reviewed the new provisions set out in the UK will ensure Board-level continuity and allow sufficient time for Corporate Governance Code 2014, which we are not Bill Winters to transition into his new role as Group Chief formally required to report against until December 2015.
Throughout this corporate governance report we have provided a narrative statement of how governance A diverse Board with a mixture of experience, skills and operates within the Group and our application of the perspectives is critical to ensuring that we remain an effective principles set out in the Hong Kong Listing Rules and the Board.
We continue to believe that diversity should be viewed in main principles of the Code.
its broadest sense and, at Standard Chartered, we have a long history of diverse Board membership which continues to this The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct day.
More detail on the diverse nature and make-up of our regarding securities transactions by directors on terms no Board can be found on pages 136 to 138. less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Having made specic enquiry of all directors, the Group confirms that all directors have complied with the required standards of the adopted code of conduct.
Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.
hk respectively To the extent applicable, information required by paragraphs 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 of the Large and MediumSized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is available in Other disclosures on pages210to 218.
