Directors report Corporate governance remit relating to financial crime have transferred to the Board throughout the course of the year.
Given the continuing Membership of the Board committees Financial Crime Risk Committee.
Unlike the Board Regulatory transition of the Board as we move through the multi-year Compliance Oversight Committee, the Board Financial Crime Board succession plan, membership of all the committees has Governance Board and Brand, Values Financial Risk Committee is made up exclusively of independent evolved during 2014, ensuring a balance between stability and Audit Board Risk Nomination Remuneration and Conduct Crime Risk members.
Chaired by Simon Lowth, it has five independent fresh perspectives.
The Chairs of the Audit and Board Risk 1 As at 4 March 2015 Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee non-executive directors, and an advisory group, consisting of Committees have also changed during the year.
Sir John Peace atleast three external experts who are neither directors nor The Board Risk Committee maintains Group-wide oversight of employees of Standard Chartered but who have skills relevant P A Sands all risk types.
Alongside this, each of the Board committees to the Committee and whose input is regarded as valuable.
takes primary responsibility for relevant risk types.
For instance, O P Bhatt The Boards conscious decision to delegate a broader range of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee has primary Dr K M Campbell responsibilities and issues to Board committees means that it is oversight of the approach by which reputational risk is critical we have effective linkages between the committees and managed.
The Remuneration Committee oversees risk arising Dr L Cheung the Board as a whole.
This is particularly important given it is from remuneration.
The Board Risk Committee has primary Dr B E Grote impractical for all independent non-executive directors to be oversight of the way credit, capital, market, liquidity, operational, A N Halford members of all the committees.
We have continued to explore country cross-border and pension risk is managed, and the various mechanisms to enhance these linkages and ensure Audit Committee oversees the management of financial and C M Hodgson thatthere are no gaps or unnecessary overlap or duplications internal controls.
The roles of the Boards committees are N Kheraj between the remit of each committee.
These include described in more detail on pages 150 to 209. overlapping membership between Board committees and S J Lowth As part of each directors tailored engagement programme, our regular interaction between the committee Chairs.
The Group independent non-executive directors are encouraged to attend R Markland also has a dedicated resource within Corporate Secretariat meetings of committees of which they are not members, to gain responsible for the effectiveness of each Board committee as Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE greater insight into the work undertaken and the matters well as taking a holistic approach to ensuring all the Board P D Skinner, CBE discussed.
In addition, in 2014 an informal Audit and Board Risk committees are fullling their oversight responsibilities.
Committee discussion was held to which all independent Dr L H Thunell In addition to there being common committee membership, non-executive directors were invited.
The Committee also comprises three external experts theBoard receives the minutes or a written summary of each opportunity for more in-depth discussion on structurally Chairman Member Permanent invitee of the committees meetings excluding the Governance and subordinated holding company lending, economics of large Nomination Committee.
In addition to the minutes, the underwriting and single-name concentrations, as well as committee Chairs provide regular updates to the Board information and cyber security.
Inaddition, for the Audit, Board Risk, and Brand, Values and Conduct Committees, respondents were requested The effectiveness of the Board committees is reviewed annually, to provide responses to two or three specic questions.
facilitated by Group Corporate Secretariat.
In keeping with the Board committee member linkages Thefeedback was then formally discussed by each of the free style approach, which worked well in 2013, members and committees and an action plan was formulated to address permanent attendees of the Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration, theobservations.
A summary of the findings can be found at Board Financial Governance and Remuneration Brand, Values Board Risk and Brand, Values and Conduct Committees were invited to the end of each of the committee sections.
Crime Risk Nomination Committee and Conduct Committee provide their top of mind thoughts on their committees Committee Committee Committee Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Remuneration Committee Governance and Nomination Committee As at 4 March 2015 148 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 149
