Directors report Corporate governance Corporate governance Board Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Who sat on the Board Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee Meetings: 4 Other attendees at Committee meetings included: The formation of this Board committee Group Chief Executive: Group Company Secretary: Sir John Peace Chair 4 4 Group General Counsel demonstrates the importance the V Shankar 4 4 A M G Rees 4 4 Group attaches to fullling its role in N Kheraj appointed on 1 May 2014 2 2 the ght against financial crime, and R Markland 4 4 the level ofresources it is committing P D Skinner, CBE 4 4 Dr L H Thunell appointed on 1 May 2014 2 2 to that effort Directors who stepped down during 2014 2015 R H P Markham stepped down on 1 May 2014 2 2 1.
Jamie Dundas was unable to attend the meetings on 27 January 2014 and 1 J F T Dundas stepped down on 1 May 2014 0 2 26February 2014 due to ill health Simon Lowth Chair of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Role and responsibilities Who sits on the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Committee composition and role S J Lowth Chair The Committee was established at the beginning of 2013 As part of the Boards commitment to further strengthen its asaspecial purpose committee.
Its membership included oversight of all aspects of conduct across the Group, a number C M Hodgson theCommittee Chairs of the Board committees, the Group of changes to the Board committee structure were made at the N Kheraj Executive Director and Chief Executive officer Europe, Middle beginning of 2015.
A new Board committee has been R Markland East, Africa and Americas, and the Deputy Group Chief established to focus on financial crime compliance matters.
The Chief Executive officer, Group Company Dr L H Thunell TheBoard Financial Crime Risk Committee took effect on Secretary, and Group General Counsel were regular attendees.
L Campos external expert The Committee ceased to exist with effect from 1 January 2015 B H Khoo external expert The Committees responsibilities include oversight of the following the establishment of a new permanent Board Groups policies, procedures, systems, controls and assurance F F Townsend external expert committee, the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee, further for its anti-money laundering, sanctions, compliance, corruption details of which are set out on page 169.
Other attendees at Committee meetings will include: and tax crime prevention efforts.
This Committee replaced and Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Company Secretary: has taken over the work of the Board Regulatory Compliance During 2014 the Committee met on an ad hoc basis to oversee, GroupGeneral Counsel: Director, Compliance, People and Communication: Oversight Committee.
The Committee has taken on some on behalf of the Board, matters relating to the Groups Global Head, Financial Crime Compliance: Special Advisor to the General areasof responsibility previously overseen by the Audit Counsels Ofce compliance with its obligations under the settlements with the Committee and the Board Risk Committee, where it has US authorities.
This included the Groups responses to other beendeemed appropriate in the context of financial crime requests, subpoenas and orders from any US Federal, State compliance oversight.
orother relevant authority in respect of such settlements and orthe Groups historical and current compliance with The Committee is made up exclusively of independent USsanctions regulations.
The Committee is chaired by Simon Lowth and comprises four additional independent non-executive directors.
During the year the Board performed the role of the Committee They are Naguib Kheraj Chair of the Audit Committee, Lars on some regulatory issues, including the final settlement made Thunell Chair of the Board Risk Committee, Ruth Markland with the New York Department of Financial Services regarding Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Christine Hodgson.
deficiencies in the anti-money laundering transaction surveillance It also comprises an advisory group, consisting of not less than system at the Groups New York branch announced to the three external experts who are neither directors nor employees market on 19 August 2014. of the Group but have skills relevant to the Committee and whose input is regarded as valuable.
The three external expertmembers are Lzaro Campos, Boon Hui Khoo and Frances Townsend.
The Committee will have at least four scheduled meetings a year.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC 168 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 169
