Directors report Board of directors Sir John Peace 66 Experience: Peter brings extensive Jaspal Bindra 54 becoming partner in 1983.
Between Chairman executive and strategic leadership Group Executive Director & Chief 1996 and 2003, Ruth was managing experience and a deep understanding Executive officer, Asia partner in Asia, responsible for the Sir John was appointed to the Board of international banking and the rms eight ofces across the region.
as Deputy Chairman in 2007, Jaspal was appointed to the Board in regulatory environment.
Ruth is the senior independent becoming Group Chairman in 2009.
On 26 February 2015, director and chair of the remuneration On 26 February 2015, it was it was announced that Jaspal will step Mike Rees 59 committee at The Sage Group plc announced that Sir John intends to down from the Board on 30 April 2015.
Deputy Chief Executive and member of the supervisory board step down from the Board during the Career: Jaspal began his career with of Arcadis NV.
Mike was appointed to the Board as Bank of America in 1984, working Ruth served as chair of the board of Chief Executive officer, Wholesale Career: Sir John joined the board of across treasury markets and trustees of the WRVS charity.
Sir John Peace Peter Sands Mike Rees Andy Halford Banking in August 2009, becoming GUS plc in 1997, of which Burberry consumer banking in India and Chairman Group Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Group Finance Director Deputy Chief Executive in April 2014.
Experience: Ruth brings significant and Experian were a part, becoming Singapore, before joining UBS expertise in Asia and a deep chief executive from 2000 until 2006.
Career: Mike held several roles in Investment Bank.
Jaspal joined understanding of the legal and In 2002, Burberry was oated on the finance at JP Morgan before joining Standard Chartered in 1998 and has regulatory environment.
London Stock Exchange with Sir John Standard Chartered in 1990 as the held senior positions in the Group as its chairman, a position he Chief Financial officer for Global such as Global Head of Client Committees: Chair of the continues to hold.
In 2006, Sir John Treasury, becoming the Regional Relationship for Wholesale Bank and Remuneration Committee, member of was appointed chairman of Experian Treasurer in Singapore, responsible Chief Executive officer for India, the Audit Committee, theGovernance following the demerger of GUS plc, for the South East Asia Treasury before joining the Board as Chief and Nomination Committee and the aposition he held until he stepped businesses.
Mike was later appointed Executive officer, Asia.
He is a Board Financial Crime Risk down in July 2014.
Sir John is Group Head of Global Markets and non-executive director at Reckitt Committee committed to supporting his local Chief Executive, Wholesale Banking, Benckiser Group plc, a member of the community and has a long-standing responsible for all commercial banking board of governors of XLRI Business Om Bhatt 63 Jaspal Bindra V Shankar Ruth Markland Om Bhatt interest in education.
He chaired the products in addition to his School, a member of the City of Independent Non-Executive Director Group Executive Director & Chief Group Executive Director & Chief Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director board of governors of Nottingham responsibilities for global markets London Advisory Council for India and Executive officer, Asia Executive officer Europe, Middle East, Om was appointed to the Board in Trent University for 10 years, has been products.
He was appointed Deputy a director of the US-India Business Africa and Americas January 2013. a trustee of the Djanogly City Chief Executive in 2014, responsible Council.
Academy in Nottingham since 1999, for the integrated Wholesale and Career: In a career spanning 38 years Experience: Jaspal brings is Lord-Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire Consumer Banking business.
Mike with the State Bank of India SBI, wide-ranging international banking and a fellow of the Royal Society of isa member of the International Indias largest commercial bank, Om experience.
Sir John has an honorary Advisory Board of Mauritius and the held a number of roles, beginning with doctorate from the University of mayor of Romes business advisory the lead bank department, which V Shankar 57 Nottingham and was knighted in 2011 council.
He led Group Executive Director & Chief for services to business and the the project team that pioneered SBIs Experience: Mike is a qualied Executive officer Europe, Middle voluntary sector.
technology initiative in the 1990s, chartered accountant and brings East, Africa and Americas undertook assignments at SBIs Experience: Sir John has a strong extensive and wide-ranging Shankar was appointed to the Board London and Washington ofces and financial services and retailing international banking experience.
in January 2012. held general management roles Dr Kurt Campbell Dr Louis Cheung Dr Byron Grote Christine Hodgson background as well as significant between 2004 and 2006.
He became Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director board and chairmanship experience, Andy Halford 55 Career: Shankar spent 19 years at managing director of SBI in 2006, in addition to extensive international Group Finance Director Bank of America before joining culminating in his appointment as experience and exemplary Standard Chartered in 2001 as Group Andy was appointed to the Board as chairman of the State Bank Group, governance credentials.
He was Group Finance Director in July 2014. until he stepped down in 2011.
Om appointed Group Head of Origination Committees: Chair of the has also served as chairman of the Career: Andy was group finance and Client Coverage in 2007 and Governance and Nomination Indian Banks Association and was director at East Midlands Electricity promoted to his current role in 2010.
Committee anindependent non-executive plc prior to joining Vodafone in 1999 Shankar is a non-executive director director of Oil and Natural Gas as financial director for Vodafone ofMajid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, a Peter Sands 53 Corporation before stepping down Limited, the UK operating company.
trustee of the Asia Society, New York Group Chief Executive inDecember 2014.
Om is an In2001, Andy was appointed financial and a member of the board of independent non-executive director Peter was appointed to the Board as director for Vodafones Northern trustees of the Singaporean Indian ofHindustan Unilever Ltd, Tata Steel, Group Finance Director in May 2002, Europe, Middle East and Africa region Development Association.
Based in Naguib Kheraj Simon Lowth Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE Paul Skinner, CBE Tata Consultancy Services and Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director becoming Group Chief Executive in and later the chief financial officer of the UAE.
governor of the board of the Center November 2006.
On 26 February Verizon Wireless in the US.
He was Experience: Shankar brings for Creative Leadership.
2015, it was announced that Peter will amember of the board of wide-ranging international banking step down from the Board and as representatives of the Verizon Experience: Om brings extensive experience.
Group Chief Executive in June 2015.
Andy was banking, financial services and appointed chief financial officer in leadership acumen, with deep Career: Peter began his career at the Ruth Markland 62 2005, a position he held for nine knowledge and experience across UK Foreign and Commonwealth Senior Independent Director years.
As Group Finance Director at India, one of our largest markets.
Ofce before joining the worldwide Standard Chartered, Andy is Ruth was appointed to the Board in consultants McKinsey & Company in Committees: Member of the Board responsible for Finance, Corporate November 2003 and became Senior 1988, where he became partner in Risk Committee Treasury, Group Corporate Independent Director in July 2013.
1996 and director in 2000, working Development and Strategy functions.
On 26 February 2015, it was extensively in the banking and Dr Kurt Campbell 57 Andy is a non-executive director at announced that, having served as an Annemarie Durbin Dr Lars Thunell technology sectors in a wide range of Independent Non-Executive Director Marks and Spencer Group plc and a independent non-executive director Group Company Secretary Independent Non-Executive Director international markets.
Peter joined the member of the Business Forum on for over 11 years, Ruth will step down Kurt was appointed to the Board in Board of Standard Chartered PLC as Tax and Competitiveness.
Based in from the Board by the end of 2015.
The Board is accountable for ensuring that, as a collective Group Finance Director with London.
She will step down as Remuneration body, it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience responsibility for Finance, Strategy, Career: Kurt has served in several Committee Chair with effect from Risk, and Technology and Operations, Experience: Andy has a strong capacities in the US government, toperform its role effectively.
It provides leadership through theconclusion of the AGM on before becoming Chief Executive.
finance background and deep including deputy assistant secretary oversight and review and by providing guidance whilst setting 6May2015.
Peter is the lead non-executive experience of managing a complex of defense for Asia and Pacic Affairs the strategic direction.
director of the Department of Health.
international business across dynamic Career: Ruth joined Freshelds and director on the National Security Based in London.
Bruckhaus Deringer in 1977 working Council Staff in the White House.
in both London and Singapore, From 2003 to 2009, Kurt was the 128 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 129 Directors report Board of directors founder and chairman of StratAsia, subsequently serving as BPs Naguib Kheraj 50 portfolio and risk management and the Ministry of Defence and as Annemarie Durbin 51 On 26 February 2015, we announced a number of new astrategic advisory rm focused on executive vice president, corporate Independent Non-Executive Director strategy.
chairman of both the Commonwealth Group Company Secretary appointments tothe Board.
Bill Winters will join the Group Asia.
From 2009 to 2013, Kurt served business activities, from 2012 to 2013 Business Council and International Naguib was appointed to the Board in Committees: Chair of the Board Annemarie was appointed in 2007. ahead of his appointment to the Board as Group Chief as the US Assistant Secretary of State with responsibility for the groups Chamber of Commerce UK.
Financial Crime Risk Committee Executive in June 2015, replacing Peter Sands.
In addition, for East Asian and Pacic Affairs.
He integrated supply and trading currently chairman of the MoDs Career: Annemarie has a bachelors GayHuey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread will join the Board was widely credited as being a key activities, alternative energy, shipping Career: Naguib began his career in Defence Equipment and Support degree in commerce, is a qualied Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 78 asindependent non-executive directors with effect from architect of the pivot to Asia.
Byron is currently a banking at Salomon Brothers in 1986 entity, a non-executive director of the lawyer and has an MSc in executive Independent Non-Executive Director 1April2015.
A full biography for Gay Huey Evans and Jasmine was a central gure in advancing the non-executive director and chair of and went on to hold a number of Tetra Laval Group and LAir Liquide coaching.
She joined Standard Whitbread can be found in the 2015 Notice of Annual General US-China relationship, building the audit committee at Unilever plc senior positions at Robert Fleming, Dr Han was appointed to the Board in SA, and is a member of the public Chartered in 1995, holding senior Meeting.
stronger ties to Asian allies, and in the and Unilever NV and will step down Barclays, JP Morgan Cazenove and January 2010. interest body of PwC and of the roles in Wholesale Banking, including opening of Myanmar.
Previously, Kurt from its board at the end of April 2015.
Over the course of 12 years advisory body of Norton Rose Head of Financial Institutions for Bill Winters 53 is a career banker with significant front-line global Career: Dr Han is a former prime was the chief executive officer and Byron is also a non-executive director at Barclays, Naguib served as group Fulbright LLP.
Europe and Africa, and had global banking experience and a proven track record of leadership and minister of the Republic of Korea.
He co-founder of the Center for a New and audit committee chair at Anglo finance director and vice-chairman responsibility for the Development financial success.
He has extensive experience of working in emerging has a distinguished political, Experience: Paul has extensive American Security.
Kurt was also an American plc, and a non-executive and in various business leadership Organisation client segment.
markets and a proven record in spotting and nurturing talent.
Billbegan diplomatic and administrative career, experience of customer-facing global associate professor at Harvards John director on the supervisory board at positions in Wealth Management, Annemarie held Consumer Banking his career with JP Morgan Chase, becoming one of the top five most serving as deputy prime minister and businesses across our geographical F Kennedy School of Government.
Byron will join the Institutional Asset Management and head roles in the Philippines and senior executives at JP Morgan, and went on to become co-chief minister of finance, foreign affairs, and footprint and of managing a large is chairman and chief executive officer board of Tesco PLC as a Investment Banking.
Naguib was Thailand and was Chief Executive executive officer of the investment bank from 2004 until he stepped industry and trade before serving as global commodities trading business.
of The Asian Group LLC, a strategic non-executive director from 1 May also a Barclays nominated officer in both countries.
Bill was the only career banker to be invited to be a prime minister from 2008 to 2009.
He He has also served in major public advisory and investment group 2015.
He is also a member of the non-executive director of Absa Group returning to the UK in 2006, committee member of the Independent Commission on Banking, also served as Korean ambassador to sector roles.
specialising in the Asia Pacic region.
European Audit Committee in South Africa, and of First Annemarie has held a number of established by the UK government in 2010 to recommend ways to the United States, chief of staff to the Leadership Network and an emeritus Caribbean International Bank.
He Committees: Chair of the Brand, group support function roles, improve competition and financial stability in banking.
Subsequently, Experience: Kurt has a wealth of president, president of the 56th member of the Cornell Johnson was chief executive officer of JP Values and Conduct Committee.
including Head of Resourcing and Bill also served as advisor to the Parliamentary Commission on experience of the US political Session of the United Nations General School Advisory Council at Cornell Morgan Cazenove, a leading Member of the Remuneration Reward within Human Resources Banking Standards and was asked by the Court of the Bank of England environment and significant Assembly, special envoy of the UN University.
London-based investment banking Committee, the Board Risk and Group Head of Corporate Affairs.
to complete an independent review of the Banks liquidity operations.
experience of some of our key Secretary-General on Climate Change business.
Naguib is a former Committee and the Governance and Currently, in addition to being the Bill is an independent non-executive director of Novartis International AG markets, notably across Asia.
Experience: Byron brings broad and chairman of the 2009 non-executive director of NHS Nomination Committee Group Company Secretary, and was previously a non-executive director of RIT Capital Partners Plc.
commercial, financial and international Organisation for Economic Committees: Member of the Brand, England and has served as a senior Annemaries role also covers the experience.
Cooperation and Development Gay Huey Evans 60 is an experienced non-executive director with Values and Conduct Committee advisor to Her Majestys Revenue Dr Lars Thunell 66 Global Corporate Secretariat function, Ministerial Council Meeting in Paris.
significant commercial, financial services and regulatory experience, Committees: Member of the Audit and Customs Service and to the Independent Non-Executive Director the Groups Corporate Real Estate DrHan sits on a number of advisory having spent 26 years working in a variety of executive roles in a number Dr Louis Cheung 51 Committee and the Brand, Values and Financial Services Authority in the Services function and administrative boards and is currently the United Lars was appointed to the Board in of global finance and banking institutions.
Gay is a non-executive director Independent Non-Executive Director Conduct Committee UK.
Naguib is currently a nonoversight of the Groups Internal Audit Nations Secretary-Generals Special November 2012. at Aviva plc, ConocoPhillips, Bank Itau BBA International Limited and executive director of Rothesay Life, function.
Annemarie is the Groups Louis was appointed to the Board in Envoy for Disaster Risk Reduction and deputy chair of the Financial Reporting Council.
She was previously Christine Hodgson 50 aspecialist pensions insurer, and a Career: Lars was president and chief executive sponsor for our diversity January 2013.
Water, the UN Secretary-Generals a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange Group PLC.
Independent Non-Executive Director member of the investment committee executive officer of Securum, the and inclusion and Living with HIV Advisory Board on Water and Career: Louis was a global partner of of Wellcome Trust.
He spends the Swedish Government bad bank, programmes.
Annemarie is a Jasmine Whitbread 51 has significant business leadership Christine was appointed to the Board Sanitation, is the founding chair of the McKinsey & Company and a leader in majority of his time as a senior from 1992 to 1994, chief executive non-executive director of WHSmith experience as well as first-hand experience of operating across our in September 2013.
On 26 February High-Level Experts and Leaders its Asia Pacic financial institutions advisor to the Aga Khan officer of Trygg-Hansa from 1994 to PLC and member of its audit, markets.
Jasmine is the chief executive officer of Save the Children 2015, it was announced that Christine Panel on Water and Disaster, is the practice prior to joining Ping An Development Network and serves on 1997 and chief executive officer of remuneration and nomination International, a role she has held since 2010, with extensive experience will be appointed as Remuneration co-chair of the Water Advisory Group Insurance Group in 2000.
Louis the boards of various entities within SEB, Swedens leading corporate committees.
and a deep understanding of operating successfully in highly regulated, Committee Chair with effect from at the Asian Development Bank and worked in several senior roles at Ping the Aga Khan Development Network.
Until June political and unpredictable environments.
Jasmine is a non-executive 7 May 2015. co-chairman of the International Experience: Annemarie brings An, including chief financial officer, 2012, Lars was chief executive officer director of BT Group plc.
Experience: Naguib brings Finance Forum of China.
significant international banking and before becoming group president in Career: Christine held a number of and executive vice president of the significant banking and finance financial services experience, 2003 and executive director from senior positions at Coopers & Lybrand Experience: Dr Han is a International Finance Corporation experience.
together with a deep understanding 2006 to 2011.
Louis is currently the and was corporate director of Ronson distinguished economist and has a IFC, a member of the World Bank of the legal, regulatory and chief executive officer of Boyu Capital plc before joining Capgemini in 1997, Committees: Chair of the Audit strong geo-political background, Group.
In this role, Lars led the IFCs governance environment.
Advisory Co, independent where she has held a variety of roles Committee, member of the bringing valuable knowledge of Asia overall strategic direction in its mission non-executive director of Fubon including chief financial officer for Governance and Nomination and its economies.
to promote sustainable private sector Financial Holding Company and a Capgemini UK plc and chief executive Committee, the Board Risk development.
Lars has held a number Committees: Member of the Brand, Fellow and council member of the officer of technology services for Committee and the Board Financial of non-executive directorships and Values and Conduct Committee Hong Kong Management Association.
North West Europe, before being Crime Risk Committee been chairman of the Swedish appointed chair of Capgemini UK plc.
Lars is currently Experience: Louis brings broad Paul Skinner, CBE 70 Christine is a non-executive director of Simon Lowth 53 a senior advisor to the Blackstone financial services and investor Independent Non-Executive Director Ladbrokes plc and sits on the board Independent Non-Executive Director Group, a director of Kosmos Energy, relations credentials, particularly, in of two charities: The Prince of Wales Paul was appointed to the Board in anon-executive director and vice aGreater China context.
Simon was appointed to the Board in Business in the Community and November 2003.
On 26 February chairman of Sithe Global LLP, a May 2010.
Committees: Member of the MacIntyre Care.
In February 2015, 2015, it was announced that, having director of Fisterra Energy LLP and Remuneration Committee Christine was appointed chair of a Career: Simon spent 15 years with served as an independent chairman of Global Water new government-backed careers and the global management consultancy, non-executive director for over 11 Development Partners all part of the Dr Byron Grote 66 enterprise company, Enterprise for McKinsey & Company, latterly as a years, Paul will step down from the Blackstone Group.
He is also a board Independent Non-Executive Director Education Limited, aiming to inspire senior director responsible for the Board by the end of 2015. member of the Middle East and prepare young people for the rms UK industrial practice, where Investment Initiative and Access Byron was appointed to the Board in Career: Paul was formerly a director world of work.
headvised leading multi-national Health International, both independent July 2014. of The Shell Transport and Trading companies on a wide range of non-profit organisations, and Experience: Christine brings strong Company plc and group managing Career: Byron spent nine years at strategic, financial and operational chairman of Africa Risk Capacity business leadership, finance, director of the Royal Dutch Shell Standard Oil of Ohio prior to it being issues.
He joined Scottish Power PLC Limited.
accounting and technology Group of companies.
During his Shell acquired by BP plc in 1987.
From in 2003 as executive director experience.
career he worked in all of Shells main Experience: Lars has a highly 1988 to 2000, Byron worked across corporate strategy and development, businesses, with assignments in the developed understanding of banking BP in a variety of commercial, Committees: Member of the Audit becoming finance director two years UK, Greece, Nigeria, New Zealand and risk management in a financial operational and executive roles.
He Committee, the Remuneration later.
Simon was chief financial officer and Norway.
Paul was chairman of services context.
was appointed chief executive officer Committee, the Brand, Values and of AstraZeneca PLC from 2007 until Rio Tinto Plc from 2003 to 2009 and of BP Chemicals and a managing Conduct Committee and the Board 2013, when he was appointed chief Committees: Chair of the Board Risk chairman of Infrastructure UK, within director of BP plc in 2000, with Financial Crime Risk Committee financial officer and executive director Committee and member of the Audit HM Treasury between 2009 and 2013. regional group-level accountability for at BG Group.
Committee, the Governance and Paul was a UK business ambassador BPs activities in Asia from 2001 to Nomination Committee and the Board Experience: Simon brings significant from 2008 to 2012.
Byron was chief financial officer Financial Crime Risk Committee expertise in finance, capital allocation, a member of the Defence Board of of BP plc from 2002 until 2011, 130 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 131
