Directors report Corporate governance Governance and Nomination Committee Who sits on the Governance and Nomination Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Name of Director meetings 3 meetings 2 During 2014 the Governance and Group Chief Executive: Director, Compliance, People and Communication: Sir John Peace Chair 3 3 2 2 Group Company Secretary Nomination Committee focused N Kheraj appointed 1 May 2014 2 2 n a Peter Sands was a member of the Governance Committee prior to 1 December 2014.
He did not join the newly integrated Governance and intensively on the future shape and R Markland 3 3 2 2 Nomination Committee which was established on 1 December 2014.
P D Skinner, CBE 3 3 2 2 composition of the Board Dr L H Thunell appointed 1 April 2014 2 2 n a Directors who stepped down during 2014 2015 1 1 J F T Dundas stepped down 1 May 2014 0 1 0 1 1.
Jamie Dundas was unable to attend the scheduled meeting on 6 February 2014 R H P Markham stepped down 1 May 2014 1 1 2 2 orthe ad hoc meeting on 26 February 2014 due to ill health.
Sir John Peace Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee The Committees role Committee activities The Committee also led the succession process, started in experiences that combine to provide different perspectives and 2014, that resulted in the recent announcement of the change effective board dynamics.
In maximising the Boards effectiveness, The Committee is responsible for the review of the Boards In 2014, the Committee focused intensively on the future shape inGroup Chief Executive.
Assisted initially by two executive we take a long-term, sustainable and measured approach.
structure, size and composition, including the identication, and composition of the Board.
This included an in-depth review search rms, Egon Zehnder International and Russell Reynolds To review the Board Diversity Policy, visit sc.
com assessment and recommendation of potential Board of the existing non-executive directors skills, tenure and Associates, and then in the latter stages Egon Zehnder candidates.
The Committee keeps under review the leadership experience against the multi-year Board succession plan.
This International alone, this process included agreeing the needs of, and succession planning for, the Group in relation plan, formulated in 2011, balances the need to maintain both approach, the candidate prole, internal candidate assessments For further insight into the diverse composition of the Board, toboth executive directors and other senior executives.
stability and longevity on the Board, while regularly refreshing its and external mapping exercises, long-listing, short-listing and including gender, see page 138.
Inaddition, on behalf of the Board, the Committee monitors composition.
The Committee continues to play an important interviews, which were undertaken by the members of the progress towards the implementation of the Board diversity role in overseeing the Boards ongoing transition and, in At the end of 2014, the proportion of women on the Board was Committee.
Following this, the Committee recommended policy and considers any potential situational conicts of particular, ensuring the Board maintains broad-based banking, 11 per cent.
The appointments of Gay and Jasmine as BillWinters appointment to the Board.
He will join the Board interestdeclared by our Board members.
finance, risk and accounting experience, representatives from independent non-executive directors, announced in February inJune 2015 as Group Chief Executive.
Peter Sands will step our key markets, and has an appropriate balance of geographic, 2015, will see four women on the Board 22 per cent at the time Following a review of the Boards committee structure in down in June 2015.
The Board confirms that Russell Reynolds gender and other diverse perspectives.
of this years AGM, bringing us closer to our longer-term steady 2014, itwas agreed that the role and responsibilities of Associates is a lead supplier to the Group for senior state of 25 per cent.
theGovernance Committee should be combined with the During the year, the Committee, assisted by Lygon Group, our resourcingand Egon Zehnder International undertakes Nomination Committee, to provide broader representation non-executive search rm, provided oversight of the process of seniorresourcing projects.
In making recommendations for appointment to the Board, the ofgovernance-related matters.
This change, effective from appointments to the Board, including the longand short-listing, Committee continued to support the principles of Executive The Committee also made further progress in relation to the 1 December 2014, resulted in the Committee being renamed interviewing and recommendation of Byron Grote to the Board Search Firm Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity, succession planning for the Chairman.
The discussions on this the Governance and Nomination Committee and the as an independent non-executive director.
Byron, who brings including diversity of candidate lists and ensuring that at least matter were led by the Senior Independent Director, and the Governance Committee ceasing to exist.
In addition to its significant business leadership, international and finance 30 per cent of the candidate long-lists are made up of women.
Chairman did not take any part in these.
As announced, existing responsibilities, the Committees role now also includes experience, joined the Board in July 2014.
The Board confirms The Committee worked with Lygon Group, Heidrick & SirJohn has indicated an intention to step down from the Board oversight of Board effectiveness and governance issues as that Lygon Group has no other connection with the Group.
Struggles, Egon Zehnder International and Russell Reynolds during the course of 2016, allowing time for Bill Winters to wellas the monitoring of corporate governance developments Associates during the year.
These organisations are all The Committee also oversaw the process, started in 2014, transition into his new role and to ensure Board-level continuity.
and emerging best practice across our markets.
signatories to the Code and are committed to supporting us in thatled to the recent announcement of two additional achieving our targets and wider Board composition ambitions.
A copy of the Committees full terms of reference can be independent non-executive directors, Gay Huey Evans and Annual re-election of directors found at sc.
Gay and Jasmine will join the Board on The review of the performance of each of the directors seeking Committee effectiveness review 1 April 2015, allowing Ruth Markland and Paul Skinner, our annual re-election at our annual general meeting AGM was twomost long-standing independent non-executive directors, Committee membership When reviewing its effectiveness, the Committee considered carried out by the Board in 2014.
For more detail on the process to step down from the Board by the end of 2015.
The the quality and volume of the information we receive and the The Committee is comprised of the Group Chairman and the see page 144. appointments of Gay and Jasmine will between them bring mechanisms used to ensure that the Board as a whole is kept Chairs of each of our Board committees as at 31 December further banking, risk and UK regulatory experience to the Board, up to date regarding both executive and independent 2014.
Its membership was refreshed during the year, with the Board diversity policy along with significant commercial leadership and first-hand non-executive succession planning.
In both cases, the appointment of Lars Thunell and Naguib Kheraj.
They joined the experience of operating across our markets.
During the year, the Committee continued to oversee plans Committee was satisfied that these were appropriate and Committee on 1 April and 1 May 2014 respectively, following toachieve its gender diversity objective of 25 per cent female should continue to be an area of focus going forward.
In addition, the Committee led the process for identifying and their appointment as Chairs of the Board Risk Committee and representation on the Board by 2017.
The Boards diversity Audit Committee, replacing Jamie Dundas and Rudy Markham, appointing a successor to the role of Group Finance Director, to policy, while setting a clear ambition, is intended to ensure that Situational conicts replace Richard Meddings, who stepped down from the Board who both stepped down from the Committee and the Board on diversity in its broadest sense remains at the heart of the Board.
Biographies of the Committee members can be in June 2014.
Assisted by one of the Groups appointed As part of the Committees remit it re-appraises the We remain committed to reaching and maintaining this executive search rms, Heidrick & Struggles, the Committee found on pages 128 to 131. authorisations previously provided to directors for those ambition, while ensuring that all Board appointments continue agreed the process and the timetable, and oversaw the longsituations in which he she had, or potentially could have in the to be based on merit, with the prime consideration of and short-listing of both internal and external candidates before future, a direct or indirect interest that conicts with the interests maintaining and enhancing the Boards overall effectiveness.
recommending to the Board the appointment of Andy Halford.
We believe that a highly effective Board is about chemistry and The Board confirms that Heidrick & Struggles is a lead supplier behaviours, underpinned by robust processes.
The Board to the Group for senior resourcing.
contains individuals who have diverse skills, knowledge and 166 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 167
