Risk and Capital review Risk management approach inaccordance with our strategic intent, risk management environmental and social risks, and a dedicated Environmental Operational risk sub-types principles and risk appetite.
More narrowly, it refers to specic and Social Risk Management team that reviews proposed regulations designed to achieve fair outcomes for customers transactions with identied risks.
External rules Potential for actual or opportunity loss due to failure to comply with laws or regulations, or as a result and the effective operation of markets.
andregulations ofchanges in laws or regulations or in their interpretation or application The Group Risk Committee provides Group-wide oversight on Good conduct is evidenced through disciplined adherence to reputational risk, sets policy and monitors material risks.
The Liability Potential for loss or sanction due to a legal claim against any part of the Group or individuals within our overall framework of systems and controls outlined in the Group Head of Corporate Affairs is the overall risk control owner theGroup risk management framework and the standards of individual for reputational risk.
The Brand, Values and Conduct and Board behaviour set out in the Code of Conduct the Code.
Risk Committees provide additional oversight of reputational Legal Potential for loss due to failure to protect legally the Groups interests or from difficulty in enforcing the risk on behalf of the Board.
At the business level, the Business enforceability Groups rights Specically for operational risk: Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee has Damage or loss of Potential for loss or damage or denial of use of property or other physical assets O External rules and regulations classications dened in the responsibility for managing reputational risk.
physical assets ORF include specic categories of regulation designed to At country level, the Country Head of Corporate Affairs is achieve fair outcomes for clients client conduct and the Safety and Potential for loss or damage relating to health and or physical security therisk control owner of reputational risk.
It is his or her effective operation of markets market conduct.
This ensures security responsibility to protect our reputation in that market with that each category of regulation is properly classied and thesupport of the Country Management Group.
The Head aligned to the Groups systems and control structures.
Risk Internal fraud Potential for loss due to action by staff that is intended to defraud, or to circumvent the law or ofCorporate Affairs and Country Chief Executive officer control owners are responsible for dening the Groups ordishonesty companypolicy mustactively: minimum standards and controls in respect of each category.
External fraud Potential for loss due to criminal acts by external parties such as fraud or theft of financial assets O The Groups policies and standards may frequently exceed Promote awareness and application of our policies and the minimum requirements or expectations of regulators procedures regarding reputational risk Information Potential for loss due to unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modication or destruction O O Conduct is considered in the Groups top risks see Risk Encourage business and functions to take account of our security of information prole on page 100.
The Group aims to prevent the risks of reputation in all decision-making, including dealings with Processing failure Potential for loss due to failure of an established process or a process design weakness failure to deliver the conduct of business standards expected customers and suppliers by the Groups clients, investors and markets in which we O Model Potential for loss due to a significant discrepancy between the output of credit and market risk Implement effective in-country reporting systems to ensure operate.
Many of the top risks can be driven by poor conduct measurement models and actual experience.
they are aware of all potential issues in tandem with so the Group is focused on its control standards around respective business committees Potential for regulatory breach due to a significant discrepancy between the output of client these risks.
Additionally, there is a specic top risk for O risk-scoring, name-screening and surveillance detection models and actual experience.
additional conduct related liability that may arise from failure Promote effective, proactive stakeholder management through ongoing engagement of our people, processes or clients to live up to the Groups standards.
Examples of areas where conduct areas are more Operational risk management approach Korea, the UAE, the UK, the US, India, and Pakistan.
This will Pension risk acute include bribery and corruption and servicing clients be completed in the first half of 2015.
Progression to all markets The Group ensures completeness of its management of across borders and lower risk processes in the Group will take place by the Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an operational risk by maintaining a complete process universe endof2015.
actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
dened for all client segments, products and functions Reputational risk The risk assessment is focused on our obligations towards our processes.
Stress testing and scenario analysis Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups major pension schemes, ensuring that our funding obligation The process universe is the complete list of end-to-end franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on tothese schemes is comfortably within our financial capacity.
As part of our operational risk management approach, we processes that collectively describe the activities of the Group market capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a Pension risk is monitored quarterly.
conduct regulatory stress testing and stress testing by scenario and is the reference for the application of the operational risk negative view of the Group or its actions.
Failures in behaviours analysis for the Group.
The Group Pension Risk Committee is the body responsible for management approach.
or systems may affect stakeholders perceptions of the Groups governance of pension risk and it receives its authority from the Regulatory stress testing driven by adverse macroeconomic commitment to its Here for good brand promise.
Reputational This represents all Group activities, the owners of these Group Risk Committee.
scenarios is used to determine regulatory capital adequacy.
risk could arise from the failure of the Group to effectively activities, and the risk and control standards that are dened by In2014, we participated in the Bank of England and Internal mitigate the risks in its businesses, including one or more of risk and process owners.
It also serves as the foundation for Capital Adequacy Assessment Process exercises.
The country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory, legal, strategic or policy delivery, as well as risk identication, measurement, exercises included internal judgemental overlays for potential other operational risk.
Damage to the Groups reputation could management and reporting.
The operational risk management risk of low-frequency, high-severity events occurring during cause existing clients to reduce or cease to do business with approach requires: stress conditions, due to collateral management processing the Group and prospective clients to be reluctant to do O Industrial strength processes for all Group activities failure, fraud and mis-selling risks.
The results confirmed the business with the Group.
All employees are responsible for Groups operational risk Pillar I regulatory capital was adequate.
day-to-day identication and management of reputational risk.
O Control tolerances for detection and rectification of defects These responsibilities form part of the Code and are further within a dened time period Our stress-testing and scenario analysis programme is embedded through values-based performance assessments.
prioritised to identify concentration of risks across the Groups O Standardised processes in all countries except for legitimate Risk control owners must identify material reputational risks processes and to consider and assess the potential impact of system or regulatory exceptions arising from any business activity or transaction that they low-frequency high-severity events that may exceed the control and ensure that these are escalated and controlled in O Gross and residual risk assessments by first line and Groups risk tolerances.
An example of a recent stress test accordance with the Groups Reputational Risk Policy and approved by second line included a cyber attack scenario, which was performed applicable procedures.
following public information on external events regarding O Monthly risk and control monitoring malware attacks on other financial institutions.
Reputational risk may also arise from a failure to comply with O Prompt execution of risk treatment actions to closure environmental and social standards.
Our primary environmental Conduct and social impacts arise through our relationship with our The operational risk management approach is being rolled out clients and the nancing decisions we take.
We have published on a prioritised basis by risk and market as part of the ORF Conduct of business, or conduct, is a term that is used in a a series of Position Statements that we apply in the provision of programme.
The Groups Very High and High Gross risk broad number of ways across the financial services industry.
financial services to clients who operate in sectors with specic processes are being rolled out to all businesses and functions Atits broadest, good conduct is the appropriate execution of risks, and for key issues.
We have mechanisms in our in nine of the largest markets Singapore, Hong Kong, China, business, by the Group or any individual acting on its behalf, origination and credit processes to identify and assess 116 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 117
