Risk and Capital review Risk prole Principal uncertainties The Groups prole of operational loss events in 2013 and 2014 Itshows the percentage distribution of gross operational losses The management of risk lies at the heart of Financial markets dislocation is also summarised by Basel event type in the table below.
by Basel event type: StandardChartereds business.
We seek to contain There is a risk that a sudden financial market dislocation, % Loss andmitigate risks to ensure they remain within our perhaps as a result of a tightening of monetary policy in the risktolerance and are adequately compensated for.
Distribution of operational losses by Basel event type 2014 2013 major economies, a deterioration of the sovereign debt crisis in Business disruption and system failures 2.1 1.1 An overview of our risk prole is set out in pages 60 to 100 and the eurozone or a geo-political event, could signicantly our approach to risk management is set out in pages 105 to 117. increase general financial market volatility.
This could affect our Clients products and business practices 18.4 35.9 performance or the availability of capital or liquidity.
In addition, Employment practices and workplace safety 0.1 0.9 The key uncertainties we face in the current year are set out 1 reduction of monetary intervention by the US Federal Reserve, Execution delivery and process management 48.0 38.2 below.
This should not be regarded as a complete and or other central banks, could disrupt external funding for some 2 External fraud 31.2 18.2 comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties economies, leading to lower growth and financial market Internal fraud 0.2 5.7 that we may experience.
These factors may have an impact on the mark-to- 1.
Includes the civil monetary penalty market valuations of assets in our available-for-sale and trading Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions in footprint 2.
Includes the China commodities fraud portfolios.
The potential losses incurred by certain clients countries holding derivative contracts during periods of financial market Operational losses are one indicator of the effectiveness and of exposures or aggregation of risks and may also be a gross Macroeconomic conditions have an impact on personal volatility could also lead to an increase in disputes and robustness of the operational risk control environment.
In risk, triggering any one of a set of ltering criteria.
expenditure and consumption, demand for business products corporate defaults.
At the same time, financial market instability addition, lessons learned reviews and root cause analyses from and services, the debt-service burden of consumers and could cause some financial institution counterparties to Emerging risks are also considered, both internally from the external and internal loss events, including near misses, are businesses, the general availability of credit for retail and experience tighter liquidity conditions, or even fail.
There is no Groups internal operational risk prole and from external used to improve processes and controls.
corporate borrowers, and the availability of capital and liquidity certainty that government action to reduce the systemic risk will events.
Where relevant, an emerging risk may be categorised funding for our business.
All these factors may impact our be successful and it may have unintended consequences.
and prioritised as a top risk for specic monitoring.
Top risks and emerging risks performance.
We stress test our market risk exposures to highlight the Given their signicance, top risks attract closer scrutiny from A top risk is a risk exposure, or a group of highly correlated risk The world economy is coming out of a difficult period and potential impact of extreme market events on those exposures top levels of management and governance committees.
exposures, that has the highest potential to breach the Groups uncertainty remains.
The unwinding of the US Federal Reserves and to confirm that they are within authorised stress loss Toprisks are expected to change over time based on top-down risk capacity.
The objective is to identify those risks that can quantitative easing programme could lead to higher interest triggers.
Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reect assessments by senior management.
materially impact the Groups risk capacity, and to calibrate rates, volatility in financial markets and capital ight from changes in risk prole and economic events.
Where necessary, metrics as early warning indicators against undesirable The Groups operational top risks as at 31 December 2014 emerging markets, which may threaten the growth trajectory overall reductions in market risk exposure are enforced.
We outcomes and performance under stress.
Top risk candidates areshown in the table below.
Chinas slowing economic closely monitor the performance of our financial institution are identied through a top-down assessment of concentration growth and the rebalancing of the economy may depress prices counterparties and adjust our exposure to these counterparties and trade in a number of commodity sectors such as energy, as necessary.
We maintain robust processes to assess the Top risks metals and mining, and a deeper and more prolonged appropriateness and suitability of products and services we slowdown could have wider economic repercussions.
provide to clients to mitigate the risk of disputes.
Macro-prudential, regulatory and external risks Internal processes, systems and change risks Supply shocks can result in weak or volatile commodity prices, Geo-political events O O Regulatory non-compliance Change management which in turn can damage the economic growth prospects or sovereign creditworthiness of commodity-exporting countries.
We operate in a large number of markets around the world, O O Anti-money laundering Data management andour performance is in part reliant on the openness of The sovereign crisis in the eurozone is not fully resolved and, O O International sanctions and terrorist nancing Major systems failure cross-border trade and capital ows.
We face a risk that although some risks have been addressed by ongoing policy geo-political tensions or conicts in our footprint could impact O O External fraud significant business interruption initiatives, there is still a need for substantial new structural trade ows, our customers ability to pay, and our ability to reform see additional information on the risk of redenomination O O Information and cyber security Rogue trading manage capital or operations across borders.
The proposed UK referendum on membership O O Critical third-party vendors Internal fraud ofthe European Union EU would bring further economic We actively monitor the political situation in all our principal andpolitical uncertainty.
We also monitor the development of broader O O Additional conduct including bribery and corruption Manipulation of market data submission geo-political events such as in Ukraine, the Middle East and Our exposure to eurozone sovereign debt is very low.
However, O Mis-selling territorial disputes in North East Asia.
We conduct stress tests we remain alert to the risk of secondary impacts from events on the impact of extreme but plausible geo-political events on O Product management onnancial institutions, other counterparties and global our performance, and the potential for such events to economic growth.
O Collateral management jeopardise our ability to operate within our stated risk appetite.
Ination and property prices appear to be under control in most Further details on stress testing are given on page 107. of the countries in which we operate, though some central Other risks Pension risk banks are already employing macro-prudential tools to temper Risk of fraud and other criminal acts Reputational risk Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an property price increases.
Changes in monetary policy could The banking industry has long been a target for third parties actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
lead to significant increases in interest rates from their currently Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups seeking to defraud, disrupt legitimate economic activity, or Seefurther pension disclosure in Risk management approach low historical levels, with resulting impacts on the wider franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on facilitate other illegal activities.
Concerns about cyber crime on page 117. economy and on property values.
market capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a have risen signicantly, driven in part by geo-political events.
negative view of the Group or its actions.
Failures in behaviours We balance risk and return, taking account of changing Cyber crime risks include fraud, vandalism and damage to or systems may affect stakeholders perceptions of the Groups conditions through the economic cycle, and monitor economic critical infrastructure.
commitment to its Here for good brand promise.
trends in our markets very closely.
We conduct stress tests to While the internet and networked technologies have provided assess the effects of extreme but plausible trading conditions on A summary of our current practices regarding reputational major opportunities for digitising business, they have also our portfolio and also continuously review the suitability of our riskmanagement is provided in Risk management approach givenrise to significant risks as well-equipped and motivated risk policies and controls.
We manage credit exposures following onpage117.
The incidence of cyber the principle of diversication across products, geographies crime is rising, becoming more globally coordinated, and is andclient segments.
This provides strong resilience against achallenge for all organisations.
economic shocks in one or more of our portfolios.
100 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 101 Risk and Capital review Principal uncertainties 2014 2013 We seek to be vigilant to the risk of internal and external crime Regulatory compliance, reviews, requests for The settlement provisions are summarised as follows: in our management of people, processes and systems and in information and investigations Indian rupee i A civil monetary penalty of $300 million our dealings with clients and other stakeholders.
The Group has Average 60.98 58.51 While the Group seeks to comply with the letter and spirit of implemented a range of cyber crime defences to protect from ii Enhancements to the transaction surveillance system Period end 62.96 61.77 allapplicable laws and regulations at all times, it has been, hacking, misuse, malware, errors, social engineering and attheBranch Korean won andmay continue to be, subject to regulatory actions, reviews, physical threats.
Controls are embedded in our policies and Average 1,052.25 1,094.52 requests for information including subpoenas and requests iii A two-year extension to the term of the Monitor procedures across a wide range of the Groups activities, such fordocuments and investigations across our markets, the Period end 1,098.85 1,055.08 as origination, recruitment and physical and information iv The following set of temporary remediation measures, which outcomes of which are generally difficult to predict and can Indonesian rupiah security.
We perform regular reviews of our control environment will remain in place until the transaction surveillance systems bematerial to the Group.
Average 11,838.11 10,414.66 and tests of our defences against cyber and other attacks.
We detection scenarios are operating to a standard approved Period end 12,396.43 12,164.29 use third parties where appropriate to further protect, validate In 2012, the Group reached settlements with the US authorities bythe Monitor: Taiwanese dollar and strengthen our defences.
regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, a The Branch will not, without prior approval of the NYDFS Average 30.33 29.70 involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of We actively collaborate with our peers, regulators and other in consultation with the Monitor, open a dollar demand Period end 31.64 29.84 Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the expert bodies as part of our response to this risk.
deposit account for any client that does not already have Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, such an account with the Branch The Groups controls to address money-laundering risks are Deferred Prosecution Agreements with each of the Department Regulatory changes under review as part of the Groups Financial Crime Risk of Justice DOJ and the New York County District Attorneys b Requirements for inclusion of identifying information for Our business as an international bank will continue to be Mitigation Programme, referred to in the section headed Ofce DANY each a DPA and a Settlement Agreement with originators and beneciaries of some afliate and thirdsubject to an evolving and complex regulatory framework Regulatory compliance, reviews, requests for information and the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control together, the party payment messages cleared through the Branch comprising legislation, regulation, enforcement and codes of investigations on pages 103 and 104.
In addition tothe civil penalties totalling c A restriction on dollar-clearing services for certain Hong practice, in each of the countries in which we operate.
A key $667 million, the terms of these Settlements include a number Fraud and criminal activity may also give rise to litigation Kong retail business clients uncertainty relates to the way in which governments and of conditions and ongoing obligations with regard to improving impacting the Group.
In December 2008, Bernard Madoff regulators adjust laws, regulations and economic policies in sanctions, Anti-Money Laundering AML and Bank Secrecy Act d Enhanced monitoring of certain small and medium-sized confessed to running a Ponzi scheme through Bernard L. response to macroeconomic and other systemic conditions.
BSA controls such as remediation programmes, reporting enterprise clients in the UAE.
The Group decided to exit Madoff Investment Securities, LLC BMIS.
American Express The nature and impact of such future changes are not always requirements, compliance reviews and programmes, banking this business as part of its broader efforts to sharpen its Bank AEB, acquired by the Group in February 2008, had predictable and could adversely affect our strategic interests.
transparency requirements, training measures, audit strategic focus, withdrawing from or realigning nonprovided clients with access to funds that invested in BMIS.
Some could have a significant impact, such as the calibration programmes, disclosure obligations and, in connection with the strategic businesses, including those where increased BMIS and the funds are in liquidation.
Certain clients have and implementation of new liquidity requirements and a NYDFS Consent Order, the appointment of an independent regulatory costs undermine their economic viability.
The brought actions against the Group in various jurisdictions, leverage ratio, continuing derivatives reform including the monitor the Monitor.
These obligations are managed under a exit process is largely complete and, in accordance with seeking to recover losses based principally on the assertion implementation of risk mitigation techniques for programme of work referred to as the US Supervisory the settlement agreement, dollar clearance restrictions that inadequate due diligence was undertaken on the funds.
In over-the-counter OTC derivatives not cleared by a central Remediation Program SRP.
The SRP comprises work streams were implemented effective 17 November 2014. addition, the BMIS bankruptcy trustee and the funds liquidator counterparty and banking structural reforms in a number of designed to ensure compliance with the remediation have commenced proceedings against the Group, seeking to The remit of the SRP has been expanded to cover the markets including proposals that could result in i the structural requirements contained in allof the Settlements.
In 2013 the recover sums paid to clients when they redeemed their management of these obligations.
separation of certain trading activities from core deposit-taking Group also established a Financial Crime Risk Mitigation investments prior to BMIS bankruptcy.
There is a range of and lending activities and ii local branches of international Programme FCRMP, which is acomprehensive, multi-year On 9 December 2014, the Group announced that the DOJ, possible outcomes in the litigation described above, with the banking groups being subsidiarised, the UK bank levy and the programme designed to review and enhance many aspects of DANY and the Group had agreed to a three-year extension of result that it is not possible for the Group to estimate reliably the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.
the Groups existing approach tomoney laundering prevention the DPAs until 10 December 2017, and to the retention of a liability that might arise.
However, the Group considers that it and to combating terrorism finance and the approach to monitor to evaluate and make recommendations regarding the In relation to the banking structural reforms, the European has good defences to the asserted claims and continues to sanctions compliance and the prevention of bribery and Groups sanctions compliance programme.
The DOJ Commission has published a legislative proposal for a defend them vigorously.
Many of the deliverables under the SRP are reliant agreement acknowledges that the Group has taken a number regulation on structural measures improving the resilience of EU For further details on legal and regulatory matters refer to on, or led by, individuals or functions outside the US, and in of steps to comply with the requirements of the original DPAs credit institutions, including a prohibition on proprietary trading note43 on page 303. some cases represent the US implementation of Group-wide and to enhance and optimise its sanctions compliance, and separation powers for supervisors relating to banks trading remediation or upgrade activity managed under the FCRMP.
including the implementation of more rigorous US sanctions activities.
The regulation is expected to be adopted during 2015 Exchange rate movements Consequently, there is a close working relationship between the policies and procedures, certied staff training, hiring of senior with a view to the prohibition on proprietary trading taking effect SRP and FCRMP for the purpose of project coordination and legal and financial crime compliance staff, and recently on 1 January 2017 and the separation powers for supervisors Changes in exchange rates affect, among other things, the delivery.
As part of the FCRMP, the Group or its advisors may implementing additional measures to block payment instructions on 1 July 2018. value of our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign identify new issues, potential breaches or matters requiring for countries subject to US sanctions laws and regulations.
The currencies, as well as the earnings reported by our non-US Uncertainty remains regarding the final calibration and further review or further process improvements that could Group will work closely with the authorities to make additional dollar denominated branches and subsidiaries.
Sharp currency implementation of i liquidity requirements and the leverage ratio impact the scope or duration of the FCRMP.
substantial improvements to its US sanctions programme to movements can also affect trade ows, the ability of countries under the EUs Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation reach the standard required by the DPAs.
and clients to service debt and the wealth of clients, any of The Group is engaged with all relevant authorities to CRD IV although the Bank of England Financial Policy which could have an impact on our performance.
implementthese programmes and meet the obligations under The DOJ agreement also indicates that the Group is cooperating Committee has consulted on a proposal to introduce, as soon as the Settlements.
with an investigation related to possible historical violations of practicable, a UK-specic 3 per cent leverage ratio and, from We monitor exchange rate movements closely and adjust our US sanctions laws and regulations, but that additional time is 2016, supplementary leverage ratio buffers ahead of final exposures accordingly.
Under certain circumstances, we may On 19 August 2014, the Group announced that it had reached needed for the authorities to complete the investigation and calibration by the European Union and ii OTC derivative reforms take the decision to hedge our foreign exchange exposures in anal settlement with the NYDFS regarding deficiencies in the determine whether any violations have occurred.
The Group across our markets, which could potentially have a material impact order to protect our capital ratios from the effects of changes in AML transaction surveillance system in its New York branch the remains committed to full cooperation with the authorities on the Group and its business model.
Furthermore, proposals for exchange rates.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the Branch.
The system, which is separate from the sanctions during this investigation, alongside an extensive programme of regulatory changes may have unintended consequences either for capital adequacy ratio is mitigated to the extent there are screening process, is one part of the Groups overall financial compliance improvements.
At the current stage of this individual banks or, in terms of aggregate impact, on the financial proportionate movements in risk-weighted assets.
crime controls and is designed to alert the Branch to unusual investigation, the Group cannot predict the nature or timing of system.
Depending on the final calibration and implementation transaction patterns that require further investigation on a The following table sets out the period-end and average currency its outcome.
There is a range of potential penalties for sanctions ofthese measures, they could adversely affect economic post-transaction basis.
exchange rates versus the dollar for Indian rupee, Korean won, compliance violations, which could ultimately include substantial growth, the volatility and liquidity of the financial markets and, Indonesian rupiah and Taiwanese dollar for the years ended monetary penalties, additional compliance and remediation consequently, the way we conduct business, structure our global 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
These are the requirements, and or additional business restrictions.
operating model and manage capital and liquidity.
These effects markets for which currency exchange rate movements have had may directly or indirectly impact our financial performance.
the greatest translation impact on the Groups results in 2014.
