234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 25 Active investment working for you Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the Committee's report to reviewing the appropriateness of the Company's shareholders on the effectiveness of the external audit accounting policies: and process and how this has been assessed for the year ended ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems 31 December 2014. and standards.
Role and responsibilities Significant issues considered regarding the Annual The Company has established a separately chaired Audit Report and Financial Statements Committee the Committee whose duties include During the year, the Committee considered a number of considering and recommending to the Board for approval significant issues and areas of key audit risk in respect of the contents of the half yearly and annual financial the Annual Report and Financial Statements, as outlined statements, and providing an opinion as to whether the below.
The Committee reviewed the external audit plan at Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, an early stage and concluded that the appropriate areas of understandable and provides the information necessary for audit risk relevant to the Company had been identified and shareholders to assess the Company's performance, that suitable audit procedures had been put in place to business model and strategy.
The Committee also reviews obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements the external auditor's report thereon and is responsible for as a whole would be free of material misstatements.
The reviewing and forming an opinion on the effectiveness of table below sets out the key areas of risk identified and also the external audit process and audit quality.
Other duties explains how these were addressed by the Committee.
include reviewing the appropriateness of the Company's accounting policies and ensuring the adequacy of the Significant issue How the issue was addressed internal control systems and standards, as set out in more Verification of the The Committee reviews reports detail below.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are existence of the from its service providers on key available on the Company's website at assets in the portfolio controls over the assets of the www.
Any significant issues The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The two are reported by the Manager to planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to the Committee.
The audit also approve the half yearly and annual results.
includes checks on the existence Composition and ownership of investments.
All the Directors are members of the Committee, which is The valuation of the The Committee reviews detailed chaired by Mr Jewson.
The Board considers that the investment portfolio portfolio valuations on a regular members of the Committee have sufficient recent and basis throughout the year and relevant financial experience for the Committee to receives confirmation from the discharge its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Manager that the pricing basis is Company is a member of the Committee to enable him to appropriate.
The audit includes a be kept fully informed of any issues which may arise.
check of pricing back to source data to confirm that the correct Responsibilities and review of the external audit valuation basis has been applied in During the year the principal activities of the Committee accordance with the accounting included: policies adopted, as disclosed in considering and recommending to the Board for approval note 1 to the Financial Statements.
the contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements and reviewing the external auditor's report Going concern Having considered the Companys thereon: investment objective, risk reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost management policies and cash effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the flow projections the Committee is external auditor: satisfied that the Company has reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval adequate resources and an the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external appropriate financial structure to auditor and the terms of their engagement: continue in operational existence reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for for the foreseeable future.
the financial year, with a focus on the identification of Compliance with Ongoing compliance with the areas of audit risk, and consideration of the Sections 1158 and eligibility criteria is monitored appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: 1159 of the on a regular basis.
reviewing the quality of the audit engagement partner Corporation Tax and the audit team, and making a recommendation to the Act 2010 Board with respect to the re-appointment of the auditor: Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 26 Active investment working for you Report of the Audit Committee continued The verification of The Committee reviews income The effectiveness of the Board and the Manager in the investment income forecasts and receives explanations external audit process is assessed principally in relation to from the Manager for any the timely identification and resolution of any process variations or significant errors or control breaches that might impact the Company's movements from previous NAVs and accounting records.
It is also assessed by forecasts and prior year numbers.
reference to how successfully any issues in respect of areas of accounting judgement are identified and resolved, the The accuracy of the The audit includes checks on the quality and timeliness of papers analysing these calculation of calculation of the management judgements, the Board and the Manager's approach to the management fees to ensure these are value of independent audit, the booking of any audit fees correct and in accordance with adjustments arising and the timely provision of draft public contractual arrangements.
documents, for review by the auditor and the Committee.
To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of As the provision of portfolio valuation, accounting and the external auditor, the Committee considers whether the administration services is delegated to the Company's skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable Manager, who sub-delegates fund accounting to a third supplier of the non-audit service and whether there is any party service provider, and the provision of custody services threat to their objectivity and independence in the conduct of is contracted to HSBC, the Committee has also reviewed the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
On an the Service Organisation Control Reports SOC and Audit annual basis, Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of and Assurance Faculty AAF reports prepared by the their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, Manager, custodian and fund accountants to ensure that providing details of any other relationships with the Manager.
the relevant control procedures are in place to cover these As part of this review, the Committee also receives areas of risk as identified above and are adequate, information about policies and processes for maintaining appropriate and have been designated as operating independence and monitoring compliance with relevant effectively by the reporting accountant.
requirements from the Company's auditor, including information on the rotation of audit partners and staff, and Auditors and audit tenure details of any relationships between the audit firm and its The Company's current auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have staff and the Company, as well as an overall confirmation acted in this role since 2003.
The appointment of the auditor from the auditor of their independence and objectivity.
As a is reviewed each year and the audit partner changes at least result of their review, the Committee has concluded that Ernst every five years in accordance with professional and & Young LLP is independent of the Company and the Manager.
regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
Conclusions in respect of the Annual Report and The last five yearly audit rotation took place in 2012.
The Financial Statements Committee is aware that the European Parliament has The production and audit of the Company's Annual Report adopted a directive which will introduce reforms to the and Financial Statements is a comprehensive process statutory audit of listed companies, including the mandatory requiring input from a number of different contributors.
One rotation of audit firms.
The Committee will consider the of the key governance requirements of a Company's financial impact of the reforms once they are introduced into UK law.
statements is for the Report and Financial Statements to be There are no contractual obligations that restrict the fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a Company's choice of auditors.
Other audit service fees of conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the 1,595 excluding VAT paid to Ernst & Young LLP relate to Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual their services in the electronic filing of tax returns.
Report and Financial Statements fulfils these requirements.
As a result of the work performed, the Committee has Assessment of the efficiency of the external audit concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended process 31 December 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members of understandable and provides the information necessary for the Committee work closely with the Manager to obtain a shareholders to assess the Company's performance, good understanding of the progress and efficiency of the audit.
The Committee has reported Feedback in relation to the audit process, and also of the on these findings to the Board.
The Board's conclusions in effectiveness of the Manager in performing its role, is also this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors' sought from relevant involved parties, notably the audit Responsibilities on page 27. partner and team.
The external auditor is invited to attend the Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are Richard Jewson considered, where they have the opportunity to meet with Chairman the Committee without representatives of the Manager being Audit Committee present.
24 February 2015 26 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
