234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 22 Active investment working for you Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES administration of the business to Investec Asset Corporate Governance is the process by which the board of Management Limited IAM.
The Board makes all strategic directors of a company looks after shareholders interests decisions, reviews the performance of the Company at and by which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
Board meetings and sets the objectives for the Manager.
The Shareholders hold the directors responsible for the directors have a range of business and financial skills and stewardship of a companys affairs, delegating authority and experience relevant to the direction of the Company.
responsibility to the directors to manage the company on Mr R W Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
their behalf and holding them accountable for its The Corporate Company Secretary the Company performance.
Secretary is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for executing the Companys strategy and for closely compliance with applicable rules and regulations including monitoring risks.
It considers the practice of good the AIC Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated governance to be an integral part of the way it manages the representative of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Company and is committed to maintaining high standards Board as a whole.
of financial reporting, transparency and business integrity.
The content and presentation of Board papers circulated As a UK-listed investment trust company the Boards before each meeting contain sufficient information on the principal reporting obligation is driven by the UK Corporate financial condition of the Company.
Key representatives of Governance Code the UK Code issued by the Financial IFM attend each Board meeting enabling directors to probe Reporting Council in September 2012.
However, as listed on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
investment trust companies differ in many ways from other There were seven Board meetings, two audit committee listed companies, the Association of Investment Companies meetings and four nomination committee meetings held has drawn up its own set of guidelines, the AIC Code of during the year and the attendance by the directors was as Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued in February follows: 2013, which addresses the governance issues relevant to Number of meetings attended investment companies and meets the approval of the Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee Financial Reporting Council.
The Board believes that reporting against the principles and recommendations of John Reeve 7 2 4 the AIC Code will provide better information to Arthur Copple 7 2 4 shareholders.
June fide Moller 7 2 4 The Company has complied with the recommendations Richard Jewson 7 2 4 of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Martin Riley 7 2 4 Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The David Webster 7 2 4 UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: Diversity the role of the chief executive The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take executive directors remuneration this into consideration during the recruitment and the need for an internal audit function appointment process.
Typically, the Board seeks to ensure The Board considers these provisions are not relevant to that there is a suitable balance between directors with the position of Temple Bar, being an externally managed industrial commercial and traditional City backgrounds.
In particular, all of the Companys However, the Board is committed to appointing the most day-to-day management and administrative functions are appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no of diversity, and therefore no targets have been set against executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Independence of the directors COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE Each of the directors is independent of any association with OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Manager and has no other relationships or Operation of the Board circumstances which might be perceived to interfere with There is a formal schedule of matters to be specifically the exercise of independent judgement.
Four of the six approved by the Board and individual directors may seek directors Mr Reeve, Mr Jewson, Mr Riley and Mrs fide Moller independent advice at the expense of the Company within have served on the Board for more than nine years from the certain limits.
The Board has delegated the investment date of their first election, but given the nature of the management, within clearly defined parameters and dealing Company as an investment trust and the strongly limits, to Investec Fund Managers Limited IFM and the independent mindset of the individuals involved, the Board 22 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 23 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued is firmly of the view that all of the directors can be time, taking into account the existing balance of skills and considered to be independent.
In arriving at this conclusion knowledge.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
the Board makes a clear distinction between the activities The committee is also responsible for assessing on an of an investment trust and a conventional trading company.
annual basis the individual performance of directors and for An investment trust has no employees or executive making recommendations as to whether they should directors, the only significant relationship being with the remain in office.
In overseeing this relationship it is the view of the Board that long service aids the understanding, judgement, Management engagement committee objectivity and independence of the directors and in no way As all the directors are fully independent of the detracts from any of these qualities.
management company, the Board as a whole fulfils the function of a management engagement committee.
Induction and training New directors appointed to the Board are provided with an Board audit committee nomination induction programme which is tailored to the particular committee director ongoing evaluation circumstances of the appointee.
Regular briefings are On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its provided during the year on industry and regulatory performance, together with that of the audit and matters and the directors receive other relevant training as nomination committees and the effectiveness and required.
contribution of the individual directors, including the Chairman, within the context of service on those bodies.
Re-election of directors The review encompasses an assessment of how cohesively Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the these bodies work as a whole as well as the performance of first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are the individuals within them.
In 2013 the Board also subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the employed the services of the Institute of Directors to carry appointment of each director is reviewed by other members out an external evaluation of its performance.
On the basis of the Board every year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject of these reviews the Board has concluded that it has an to automatic re-appointment.
Non-executive directors are appropriate balance of skills and is operating effectively.
not appointed for specified terms.
Because of the nature of an investment trust the Board believes that the Relations with shareholders contribution and independence of a director is not Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the diminished by long service and, conversely, that a more Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the detailed knowledge of the Company and its business has a Company communicates with shareholders is through half beneficial impact.
yearly reports and annual reports.
The information The Board has carefully considered the position of each contained therein is supplemented by daily NAV of the directors and believes it would be appropriate for announcements and by a monthly fact sheet available on them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors the Companys website.
continues to be effective and to display an undiminished The Board largely delegates responsibility for enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
communication with shareholders to the management company and, through feedback, expects to be able to Audit committee develop an understanding of their views.
Members of the The audit committee is a formally constituted committee Board are willing to meet with shareholders for the purpose of the Board with defined terms of reference.
Its role and of discussing matters in relation to the operation and responsibilities are set out in the Report of the Audit prospects of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that members The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and of the audit committee have relevant and recent financial welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern or experience to fulfil their role effectively.
The auditor, who areas of uncertainty.
In addition, special arrangements have the Board has identified as being independent, is invited to been established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme investors attend the audit committee meeting at which the annual to participate fully at AGMs.
Following the formal AGM accounts are considered and any other meetings that the proceedings the Manager makes a presentation to the meeting committee deems necessary.
outlining the key investment issues that face the Company.
Nomination committee Accountability, internal controls and audit A nomination committee comprising all the directors has The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all been established to oversee a formal review procedure documents released by the Company, including the Annual governing the appointment of new directors and to Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the evaluate the overall composition of the Board from time to Companys position and prospects.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23 234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 24 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued The directors are responsible for the Companys system the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent order to facilitate the control process the Board has reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly requested the Manager to confirm annually that it has reconciled.
conducted the Companys affairs in compliance with the The effectiveness of the overall system of internal legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a Company and to report on the systems and procedures system can provide only reasonable and not absolute within IFM which are applicable to the management of assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled believes that there is a robust framework of internal occasions in each year and at each meeting receives controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC Code.
sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal to monitor adequately the investment performance and control matters.
Based on the foregoing the Company has a status of the business.
continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing The Board has also established a series of investment the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit reporting period and to the date of this report.
24 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
