CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 1.
CONSIDERATION OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL balanced and understandable and provides sufficient information REPORTING MATTERS necessary for shareholders and other users of the accounts to The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: and the half-year and annual financial statements in conjunction with both updated accounting and corporate governance regulations senior management and the external auditors.
During the year ended including changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
29 March 2014 consideration was given tothe following matters: To assist with discharging these responsibilities, the Committee considers documents prepared by management and reports the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: received from the external auditors on the outcomes of their annual compliance with financial reporting and governance standards: auditprocedures.
areas where significant levels of judgement have been applied oritems which have been discussed with the external auditors: The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee inrelation to the 201314 financial statements, and how these wereaddressed, areset out in the following table: SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND AREAS OF JUDGEMENT HOW THE ISSUE WAS ADDRESSED BY THE COMMITTEE Revenue recognition As set out in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group assessed revenue recognition as a critical accounting policy, particularly in relation to the recognition ofnetwork commissions receivable.
The Committee assessed the accounting policies applied in relation to revenue recognition and concluded that they remain appropriate.
The Committee also assessed the key judgements made in respect of revenue recognition with reference to contractual terms, the Groups historical experience ofcustomer behaviour and information received from third parties.
This involved challenging the assumptions used by management in its calculations, whilst taking into consideration the guidance contained within IAS 18 Revenue.
The Committee was satisfied with the methodology and assumptions used.
Acquisition accounting The CPW Europe Acquisition required a comprehensive exercise to establish the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of CPW Europe, as set out in note 23 totheGroup financial statements.
This valuation exercise included consideration of external valuations and calculations which incorporated management judgement.
The Committee challenged the methodologies used in the valuation of the net assets acquired and the outcomes of these valuations and is comfortable with the fair values that have been recognised.
Impairment of acquisition-related Following the completion of the CPW Europe Acquisition, the Group recognised intangibles separately identifiable intangible assets of 125m and goodwill of 484m.
As set out within the Groups accounting policies, the carrying value of these assets is reviewed at least annually and more frequently if there is an indication of impairment.
The Committee considered the judgements made in relation to the valuation model inputs and the methodology used.
It also reviewed a sensitivity analysis regarding the impact of reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied.
The Committee was satisfied that the carrying value remains appropriate.
Key assumptions are set out in note 10 to the Group financial statements.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued 1.
CONSIDERATION OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING MATTERS CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND AREAS OF JUDGEMENT HOW THE ISSUE WAS ADDRESSED BY THE COMMITTEE Closure of French operations The closure of the Groups French operations has required management judgement inanumber of areas, particularly in relation to the recognition of provisions for committed closure costs.
The Committee reviewed managements assumptions when performing these calculations and is comfortable that the amounts recognised up to 29 March 2014 appropriately reflect the costs incurred up to, and liabilities assumed as at, this date.
Taxation The Group operates across multiple tax jurisdictions, and the complex nature of tax legislation in these jurisdictions necessitates the use of judgement: additionally, management uses assumptions and judgements to assess the likelihood of utilisation of available tax losses.
The Committee considered the material judgements made by management, with reference to the assumptions made, progress made on matters being discussed with tax authorities and advice provided by external advisers where applicable.
The Committee was satisfied that the conclusions reached by management were appropriate.
Going concern The Committee assessed the Groups available facilities, facility headroom, banking covenants and the results of a sensitivity analysis performed.
The Committee also reviewed managements analysis which was performed with reference to budgeted revenue and earnings levels for the coming years and were satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate for the Group.
The risk register is reviewed and updated at each of the tri-annual 2.
RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROLS meetings of the Committee, with informal tracking taking place every A.
Each risk identified is ranked according to a weighted The Group has established a risk management programme that score based on the risk category, the likelihood of an event occurring assists management to identify, assess and mitigate business, financial, and its impact on the business should it occur due to either failure operational and compliance risks.
The Board views risk management or absence of mitigating controls.
Mitigating controls in place are as integral to good business practice and protecting the best interests alsodocumented.
Executive management of the Group has direct responsibility for the risk management programmes of their businesses.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Boards focus is primarily on reviewing the effectiveness of these As in any business, the Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties processes, more than involving itself inthe processes themselves.
on a daily basis, and a detailed internal control framework exists so Specific controls and processes aredetailed further below.
as to mitigate these risks and protect the interests of shareholders.
The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups systems of The Groups risk management framework aims to: internal control and for reviewing effectiveness, and they discharge this responsibility by performing the following: assist management to implement effective means of risk identification, assessment and mitigation: determining the Groups risk appetite and tolerance: instil a risk-based approach and awareness into the Groups culture: overseeing the risk management strategy: and encourage accountability for identifying and managing the risks ensuring that management implements effective systems of risk specific to line managers respective areas of the business: and identification, assessment and mitigation.
create and implement risk management strategies which address all types of risks.
The Board delegates to executive management the responsibility fordesigning, operating and monitoring these systems.
The systems The Group maintains a risk register, and all senior managers within are based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing the business are responsible for managing and monitoring the risks significant risks and include the risk management processes identified within their areas, and identifying new risks as they arise.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 40 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The systems of internal control described in this report were in place The Committee receives and reviews reports from the internal audit throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the annual department detailing its material findings from testing performed report and financial statements.
The effectiveness of these systems and any recommendations for improvement.
The progress and is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance with implementation of ensuing action plans are tracked to completion the UK Corporate Governance Code, Internal Control: Guidance to by the internal audit department, and areas where additional controls Directors formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance.
These systems have been put in place are subsequently re-tested to ensure the are also refined as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business process is fully complete.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or The Committee considered the effectiveness of the internal audit breaches of laws and regulations.
department through holding discussions with management, considering the quality of reports submitted to the Committee, thetimeliness of The Company has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness the clearance of action points, and the perceived impartiality of the of the systems of risk management and internal control in operation audit team itself.
The Committee concluded that the internal audit during the year and up to the date of the approval of the annual department has in all respects been effective during the 201314 report and financial statements and this was approved by the financial year.
EXTERNAL AUDIT At each of its meetings the Audit Committee reviewed and The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide considered reports on the status of the Groups risk management anopinion on the financial statements and certain disclosures systems, findings from reviews of internal controls and reports on prepared by Group management.
Deloitte LLP acted as the external the status of any weaknesses in internal controls identified by the auditors to the Group throughout the year.
The Committee is internal or external auditors.
responsible for oversight of the external auditors, including approving the annual audit plan and allassociated audit fees.
C. JOINT VENTURE CONTROL PROCESSES The Board places reliance as far as possible on the risk management A.
OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS processes of the Virgin Mobile France joint venture board.
The risk On an annual basis the Committee receives a detailed audit plan management processes of Virgin Mobile France have involved from Deloitte LLP, which outlines their assessment of the significant assessments of significant business risks which are wide-ranging, Group audit risks, and how their audit procedures will address these covering risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, risks.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit process counterparties and organisational change associated with major through consideration of formal reports received from Deloitte LLP projects.
The output from each assessment is a list of strategic, at the conclusion of the year-end audit.
The Committee also obtains financial, operational and compliance risks.
Associated action feedback on the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing plans and controls to mitigate them are also put in place where areas of key audit risk.
Feedback is sought from employees who thisis possible and to the extent considered appropriate, taking have the most exposure to the external audit team, such as the account of costs and benefits.
financial management team at corporate and business levels, the Company Secretary, and the tax and internal audit departments.
Reports, action plans and any changes to the status of significant Thefollowing points are also considered: risks and risk matrices are reported at each Audit Committee meeting and at Board meetings where applicable.
During the year the external auditors progress against the agreed audit plan the Board has not identified or been advised of any significant andcommunication of changes to the plan: control failings.
the competence with which the external auditors handle key accounting and audit judgements and the way in which these Other controls in place for Virgin Mobile France are as follows: matters are communicated to management and the Committee: the qualifications, expertise, resources and composition ofthe Roger Taylor and Nigel Langstaff are directors of Virgin Mobile audit team: and France.
Its board ordinarily meets monthly and has ultimate responsibility for strategic, operational, risk and compliance the cost effectiveness of the engagement, weighing up the extent matters for the business.
and quality of services received against agreed fees.
There is frequent informal interaction between shareholders The results of all of these considerations are subsequently reviewed andmanagement on strategic and operational matters.
D. INTERNAL AUDIT The Group has an internal audit department which conducts reviews of selected business processes each year.
The internal audit programme for the 201314 financial year consisted of reviews across a range of areas documented and prioritised in the Groups internal audit plan, which was prepared and approved with input from management and the Committee.
The plan is designed each year to test the robustness of mitigating controls and procedures are designed to identify any areas of improvement.
Part of the approval process of this plan involves the Committees consideration of alignment of the proposed test plan with the principal risks faced by the Group.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued C. CONSIDERATION OF NONAUDIT SERVICES 3.
EXTERNAL AUDIT CONTINUED To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, A.
OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS continued the Committee has established a formal policy regarding the provision The Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with the quality of of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Committee holds private meetings with Deloitte LLP the types of work from which the external auditors are excluded, those to allow opportunity for open dialogue and feedback without the which do not require referral to the Audit Committee, and instances presence of management.
This allows the Committee toensure where a case-by-case decision is required.
Having undertaken a thatmanagement are acting appropriately in response tosignificant review of the non-audit related work, the Audit Committee has satisfied risks, that no audit procedures were hindered by management, and itself that the services undertaken during the year did not prejudice that there were no compromises to auditor independence during the external auditors independence.
The non-audit services performed theaudit process.
by the external auditors during the year involved assignments which were closely related to the annual audit or work of such a nature In light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Audit that a detailed understanding of the Group was necessary.
As such Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be retained it was considered appropriate that these services be performed as auditors of the Company.
This recommendation was endorsed byDeloitte LLP.
CONSIDERATION OF AUDITOR APPOINTMENT A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external ANDINDEPENDENCE auditors during the year is set out below.
The ratio of non-audit fees On an ongoing basis the Committee considers the appropriateness to audit fees is monitored by the Audit Committee within an overall of the re-appointment of the external auditors, including rotation limit set by the Board on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Matters considered during these deliberations 2014 2013 include the deemed effectiveness of audit procedures performed, m m and the independence of the external auditors.
The Group has a number of policies in place to help safeguard the independence of external Audit services statutory audit 1.4 0.1 auditors.
For example, the external auditors are not permitted Tax advisory services 0.5 toperform any work which they may subsequently need to audit orwhich might create a conflict of interest.
The Committees Tax compliance services 0.2 consideration of non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP Other assurance services 0.6 hasbeen set out separately below.
Total 2.7 0.1 Recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code include anew provision that FTSE 350 companies put the external audit The Groups share of the external auditors statutory audit fees for contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Guidance issued bythe joint ventures was 0.1m 2013: 0.5m and the Groups share of Financial Reporting Council suggests that for ease of transition it their fees for tax and other services was 0.1m 2013: 0.2m.
isacceptable for aformal audit tender to be delayed ifnecessary tothe end of the current lead audit partners tenure.
Deloitte LLP Fees paid in relation to non-audit services primarily related to the has been the external auditor since the Groups formation in 2010 CPW Europe Acquisition, in respect of which the external auditors following the demerger of Old Carphone Warehouse into the Group acted as reporting accountant.
and TalkTalk Group, and was also the external auditor prior to this of Old Carphone Warehouse.
The current lead audit partner has been The Committee approved the fees proposed for audit services for in place for three years partner rotation is required on a five-yearly 201314 following a review of the level of work to be performed by basis.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP Deloitte LLP, including the impact of significant one-off transactions be retained for the 201415 financial year and a resolution proposing which took place during the year.
the re-appointment will be put to shareholders at the Companys forthcoming annual general meeting.
The Committee will continue to consider the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code John Allwood Chairman, Audit Committee and also recent proposals by the Competition Commission and the European Union on audit tendering and rotation, and will make adecision at the appropriate time to tender the audit once these proposals are finalised, in order to ensure compliance with the relevantregulations.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 42 Annual Report 2014
