CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board committees NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS RESPONSIBILITIES Baroness Morgan of Huyton chair The principal responsibility of the Nomination Committee is toconsider succession planning and appropriate appointments John Gildersleeve tothe Board, and its dutiesinclude: overseeing the identification, selection and appointment MEETINGS ofdirectors: The Nomination Committee meets reviewing the structure, size, composition and leadership needs asandwhen required.
ofthe Board: The Nomination Committee met once considering other commitments of directors relative to the time during the year.
required for them to fulfil their duties: Meetings evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: and John Gildersleeve making recommendations to the Board.
Baroness Morgan of Huyton The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available Attended Did not attend on the Groups website www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
During the year the Nomination Committee considered and approved the appointment of Gerry Murphy as a non-executive director.
TheCompany did not use an external search consultant as part ofthis appointment.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 36 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS RESPONSIBILITIES John Gildersleeve chair Responsibility for the establishment of overall remuneration policy for the Group lies with the Board.
The Remuneration Committee John Allwood hasthe following principal duties: Baroness Morgan of Huyton Gerry Murphy from 2 April 2014 making recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration: considering and making recommendations to the Board on the MEETINGS remuneration of the executive directors and senior management The Remuneration Committee met three relative to performance and market data: times during the year.
approving contracts of employment which exceed defined thresholds of total remuneration or have unusual terms Meetings ortermination periods: John Gildersleeve considering and agreeing changes to remuneration policy John Allwood ormajor changes to employee benefit structures: and Baroness Morgan of Huyton approving employee share-based incentive schemes Attended Did not attend andassociated performance conditions and targets.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Groups website www.
OTHER GOVERNANCE MATTERS None of the members of the Remuneration Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters to be decided by the Remuneration Committee nor potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships.
No director or any person advising the Remuneration Committee plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
All members are non-executive directors who have no day-to-day involvement in running the Groups business.
A detailed description of the Remuneration Committees work during the period is contained in the Remuneration report onpages 43 to 53.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Committees continued AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS ADVISORS John Allwood chair The Board makes funds available to the Audit Committee to enable it to take independent legal, accounting or other advice when the John Gildersleeve Audit Committee believes it necessary to do so.
Baroness Morgan of Huyton Gerry Murphy from 2 April 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES Biographies on the members of the Audit The Audit Committee has the following principal duties: Committee are set out on page 33.
All four members are regarded by the Board as monitoring the integrity of the half-year and full year financial independent non-executive directors.
Their statements and any formal announcements relating to the collective skills, experience and knowledge Groups financial performance: of the Group allows them to fulfil their duties advising the Board on whether, as a whole, the annual report as Committee members and to provide isfair, balanced and understandable: appropriate oversight of the Groups auditors.
reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: reviewing the Groups financial controls and internal control andrisk management systems: MEETINGS monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups The Audit Committee met three times internal control functions, including the findings of the internal during the year.
All members attended each audit department and other risk management systems: of these meetings.
The Chief Financial Officer, Head of Group Internal Audit, other senior providing the Board with an independent assessment management and representatives of the oftheGroups accounting affairs and financial position: Companys external auditors Deloitte LLP making recommendations to the Board in relation attend the Audit Committee meetings by totheappointment of external auditors: invitation oftheCommittee.
reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external auditors, including their independence, objectivity, effectiveness, remuneration and terms of engagement: Meetings considering arrangements by which employees may raise John Gildersleeve concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters: John Allwood considering other topics, as defined by the Board: and Baroness Morgan of Huyton referring matters to the Board which, in its opinion, Attended Did not attend shouldbeaddressed at a meeting of the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available ontheGroups website www.
com or on request from theCompany Secretary.
OTHER GOVERNANCE MATTERS The chairman of the Audit Committee updates the Board on anysignificant issues that have arisen at the previous Audit Committee meeting.
External auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee during formal meetings and time is set aside for them to have private discussions with the Audit Committee, in the absence ofmanagement.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 38 Annual Report 2014
