GOVERNANCE Directors Caroline Burton, joined the Board of Simon Marrison, joined the Board of the Company in June 2002.
She joined the Company on 28th September 2011.
Guardian Royal Exchange plcs Mr Marrison is the European CEO and Investment Department in 1973 and Chief Investment Officer at LaSalle remained with the group until 1999.
Investment Management and has From 1987 she was Managing Director responsibility for a portfolio of over of Guardian Asset Management and, $20billion across Europe.
Mr Marrison from 1990 to 1999, Executive Director has been based in Paris since 1990 Caroline Burton Simon Marrison Investments.
She is a non-executive having started his career in London.
director of Blackrock Smaller Companies Until 1997 he was a partner at Healey Trust plc, Liverpool Victoria Friendly & Baker now Cushman & Wakefield Society Ltd and a member of the and from 1997 to 2001 he was at Appointments Committee of Hermes Rodamco where he became Country Property Unit Trust.
She advises a Manager for France.
He joined LaSalle number of pension funds.
in 2001 as Managing Director for Continental Europe.
Hugh Seaborn, joined the Board Suzie Procter, joined the Board of of the Company on 24 July 2007. the Company on 1 March 2013.
She He is a Chartered Surveyor and has is presently Executive Head of considerable experience in the property Institutional Client Service at Cantillon arena: he is currently the Chief Capital Management.
She has been Executive Officer of the Cadogan Estate.
Director of Fixed Income Business at He was a member of the Council and Pictet International Management, Head Audit Committee of the Duchy of of Institutional Sales at Invesco and Hugh Seaborn Suzie Procter Lancaster until December 2013.
Managing Director, Head of Consultant From 2000 to 2009, he was Chief Relations and Client Director at Lazard Executive Officer of the Portman Estate Asset Management.
She brings asset and he is Chairman of the Estates management experience and expertise Business Group and is a past in strategic business development and Chairman of the Westminster Property distribution.
John Glen, joined the Board of the David Watson, joined the Board of Company on 17 February 2014 and the Company on 1 April 2012.
He is is presently the Chief Executive of a Chartered Accountant and has had Buccleuch.
Previously, John was based a distinguished career in the Financial in Paris as CFO of Air Liquide and also Services Industry.
He spent 9 years served as the Vice Chairman of the as Finance Director of M&G Group plc, European Financial Reporting Group where he was a director of four equity EFRAG.
John is also a non-executive investment trusts, and most recently at John Glen David Watson director for BIC, chairman of the Board Aviva plc as Chief Finance Officer of at Alba Trees and a member of the Aviva General Insurance.
He is currently Board for Project Scotland.
John is also Interim Chairman of Countrywide plc a member of the 2020 Climate Change and a non-executive director of Charles Group and Chairman of one of the Taylor plc, Kames Capital plc and subcommittees, which focuses on land Hermes Fund Managers Limited, where use and forestry in Scotland.
he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2013.
All directors are independent of the manager and are members of the Audit Committee.
