46 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Board effectiveness review and evaluation Reappointment of Directors An independent Board effectiveness programme is The Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, currentlybeing undertaken led by Elisabeth Marx of committed to their roles and have sufficient time available to Stonehaven International.
As the Board is newly established perform their duties.
In accordance with the Code all Directors theprogrammeis designed to help the Board maximise will offer themselves to shareholders for reelection annually.
its effective collaboration and constructive challenge and All Directors, save for Godfrey Robson, will seek election or to support the Nonexecutive and Executive Directors re-election at the Companys 2015 AGM.
in fulfilling their roles on aunitary board.
An update as to the outputs of this programme will be included Directors not seeking re-election at the 2015 AGM in the 2015 Annual Report.
Stonehaven International Godfrey Robson will not seek re-election as aNon-executive has no other connection with the Company.
Director at the Companys 2015 AGM and will step down from the Board at that time.
Accordingly, Godfreys office as Independence aNon-executive Director of the Company will cease at the The Board has considered whether there are any relationships conclusion of the Companys 2015 AGM.
or circumstances which could, or appear to, affect the Directors judgement.
No Independent Nonexecutive Company Secretary and independent professional advice Director, or member of their immediate family, has ever had The Company Secretary, Susan Crichton, is responsible to amaterial relationship with the Group nor receives additional the Board for ensuring compliance with corporate governance remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor participates in the requirements.
The Board has access to her individually and Groups share plans or pension schemes.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, former Director of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, Norval Bryson any Director may take independent professional advice at the Deputy Chairman of Scottish Widows Group Limited and Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, where former Director of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc and Mark Fisher considered necessary.
LBG nominee Director and former Chairman of TSB Bankplc are not considered to be independent.
No Directors serve Evaluation of internal controls procedures as Directors of any companies or affiliates in which any other The Board has carried out an assessment of the effectiveness Director is aDirector.
Lloyds TSB Scotland plc changed its of the Companys risk management and internal control name to TSB Bank plc on 9 September 2013. systems.
The Audit Committee report explains the process inmore detail on page 52.
Management of conflicts of interest Each Director has aduty under the Companies Act 2006 External auditor to avoid asituation in which they have, or may have, adirect  LLP PwC have expressed their or indirect interest that conflicts, or might conflict, with the willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
Asoutlined in interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the the Audit Committee report on page 53 resolutions proposing existing duty that Directors owe to the Company to disclose their reappointment for 2015 and to authorise theDirectors to the Board any interest in atransaction or arrangement to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the under consideration by the Company.
If Directors become 2015 AGM, as recommended by the Audit Committee.
aware of any situation which may give rise to aconflict of interest they must inform the rest of the Board immediately Principal accountant fees and services and the Board is then permitted under the Articles of An analysis of fees for professional services provided by PwC, Association to authorise such conflict.
This information the Companys independent Auditor is set out in note 16 to the is then recorded in the Companys register of conflicts Groups consolidated financial statements on page 117. together with the date on which authorisation was given.
Inaddition, Directors are asked to certify, on an annual basis, Liaison with shareholders that the information contained in the register is correct.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with investors to discuss the Companys business and financial performance.
In her role Save as set out below in relation to Norval Bryson, there are as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, DameSandra no potential conflicts of interest between any duties owed by Dawson met with ten of TSBs largest shareholders to the Directors or senior management to the Company and their discuss the Groups remuneration policy as detailed in the private interests or other duties.
Directors remuneration report and other matters as they arose.
Inaddition, Executive Directors receive amonthly update of Norval Bryson is Deputy Chairman and aNon-executive share ownership and trading performance, briefing the Board Director of Scottish Widows Group Limited, the holding of any material events and changes.
The Companys website company of various life, pensions and insurance companies www.
co. uk contains information of interest to both which are potential competitors of TSB in the life market.
institutional investors and private shareholders.
Norval Bryson is adirector of Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, asubsidiary of Scottish Widows Group Limited, which underwrites the home insurance product distributed by TSB under the General Insurance Distribution Agreement.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
