49 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Audit Committee report Chairs introduction I have avery clear understanding of the importance placed on the role of the Committee and, through this report, Iwill ensure that I and the Committee are held to account and that its activities are reported in astraightforward and transparent manner.
Prior to listing on 25 June 2014, the Group had asingle combined Board Audit and Risk Committee, chaired by Godfrey Robson.
At the date the Group listed, separate Audit and Risk Committees were established andIwas appointed Chair of the Audit Committee.
I am achartered accountant and spent anumber of years as an Audit Partner at KPMG.
I chair the board of the National Counties Building Society and am aNon-executive Director of Daiwa Capital Markets Europe and Scotiabank Ireland Limited.
At the same time as my appointment, the Board also appointed Sandy Kinney and Stuart Sinclair to the Committee who also bring considerable relevant experience and skills.
The Committee members biographies are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Godfrey Robson continues to attend and contribute to meetings of the As Chair of the Groups Committee to ensure that its operation benefits from his considerable experience of the Group.
AllNon-executive Directors, including the Audit Committee Chairman, of the Group have astanding invitation to attend meetings Iam proud to report ofthe Committee.
on the activities of The report that follows describes the Committees responsibilities and its activities since its establishment.
It describes the matters reviewed the Committee in the by the Committee in assessing the transparency and integrity of the Groups inaugural financial reporting as alisted Group.
It explains the Groups inaugural Committees work in assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management framework and the activities undertaken annual report and to monitor the establishment and priorities of the Groups Internal Audit function.
In discharging its responsibilities during 2014, the Committee accounts since listing.
has sought to develop atransparent and open framework of review and challenge of managements key judgements.
External audit provides akey role in this challenge process and the Committee has satisfied itself as to the effectiveness and independence of the Groups external auditor during 2014.
The Groups focus in 2014 was establishing TSB as alisted Group and the Committees activities were consistent with that objective.
I am satisfied with the progress made in 2014.
With the Group now focused on delivering its growth strategy, the Committees focus in 2015 will be to ensure that the internal control framework evolves whilst remaining both adequate and effective as the Group grows.
Polly Williams Chair, Audit Committee TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50 Governance Audit Committee report continued Membership and operation of the Committee Financial statements and reporting The Committee comprises three independent Nonexecutive The Committee is responsible for review and challenge of Directors, each with recent, relevant experience in finance or the Groups interim and annual financial statements including banking.
Membership includes at least one member of the the significant financial reporting estimates and judgements Board Risk Committee.
During 2014, since its establishment, the Committee has considered the following matters: Committee meetings are attended by members of the Executive including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial i The consistency and appropriateness of, and any Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Audit Officer, and General changes to, significant accounting policies Counsel.
The external auditor, PwC, attends each meeting The Committee has considered and accepted managements of the Committee which includes aprivate session between review of the Groups accounting policies.
This review included the Committee members and the external auditor without consideration of the nature of the Groups activities, industry the Executive.
wide practice and the obligation to adopt the accounting policies used in compiling the historical financial information I report to the Board after each Committee meeting on the inthe Groups IPO price range prospectus.
main matters discussed so that all Directors are informed on the activity of the Committee.
I am available to all Directors for The Committee considered and accepted separately discussion of any matters in more detail and maintain regular managements proposals to adopt the principles of International dialogue outside Committee meetings with the Executive, Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 21 particularly the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Levies in 2014 see note 35 to the Groups consolidated and Chief Audit Officer, and also with the lead and engagement financial statements on page 138. partners of the external auditor.
ii The methods used to account for significant transactions The Committee met five times in 2014 following the Groups The Committee has reviewed and supported proposals listing and has allocated its time to reflect the priorities of the from management on the accounting for the following Group in its initial post listing period as follows.
significant transactions: Financial statement Audit Committee responsibilities and activity in 2014 reference The Committee is responsible for ensuring that astraightforward Basis of preparation Corporate reorganisation leading to the and transparent culture exists to ensure that the Group operates page 100 insertion of the new parent company within the Board approved risk appetite for financial reporting, internal control, fraud and whistleblowing.
Specifically, the Note 16 Accounting for the Transitional Services Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and reporting Agreement to the Board on: Note 17 Defined benefit pension schemes implications of the TSB Partners TUPE transfer Financial statements and reporting: Note 21 Mortgage Enhancement and Internal controls and risk management systems: segmentalreporting Note 28 Hedge accounting income statement volatility Whistleblowing and fraud: associated with derivatives The Groups Internal Audit function: and The Groups relationship with its external auditors.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information iii Whether the Group has made appropriate estimates and judgements The Committee has reviewed the nature, basis for and the appropriateness of the estimates and judgements proposed by management in the Groups financial statements.
Consideration has been given to these estimates and judgements at each of theGroups reporting dates in 2014.
The table below summarises the position reflected in the Groups financial statements for theyear ended 31 December 2014.
After challenge, the Committee supported managements proposals in each of these cases.
Significant Financial judgements statements andestimates Audit Committee considerations reference Note 10 Impairment At 31 December 2014, the Groups allowance for impairment losses was 86.1 million.
Determining page 112 provisioning the adequacy of provisions against the Groups loan portfolio requires judgement in assessing the level of incurred losses in the Groups loan portfolio and future cash flows expected from impaired loans.
During the year, the Committee received regular reports from management on provisioning including managements adjustments to modelled outcomes.
These reports assessed the adequacy of historic provisions against subsequent recoveries, reviewed managements governance arrangements over provisioning adequacy and in particular the governance over impairment models and benchmarked the Groups metrics against other banks.
At 31 December 2014, the Groups impairment provisions of 86.1 million included 20.5 million from managements adjustments to modelled outcomes.
Akey focus of the Committee during the year was an assessment of the level and rationale for such adjustments.
The Committee received regular reports to support these adjustments, and reviewed managements plans to amend, where appropriate, the relevant models to minimise future adjustments.
The Committee concluded that arobust governance framework existed to monitor provisioning adequacy and that the assumptions and judgements applied by management were appropriate.
Note 33 Customer Conduct issues are akey focus of the banking industry.
The Group is protected from losses arising from page 137 remediation historic customer misconduct under an indemnity provided by Lloyds Bank plc.
However, technically provision the Group retains the primary liability for alleged misconduct to certain customers and accordingly aprovision for customer remediation of 22.2 million has been recognised, together with an equivalent asset of 22.2million in respect of indemnities provided by Lloyds Bank plc, primarily in respect of alleged misselling of added value current accounts, credit card protection, interest rate hedging products and in respect of an exposure to payment protection insurance products relating tomortgages.
The Committee received areport from management setting out the approach undertaken to assess any liability for alleged conduct issues.
This included assessing themes and volumes of customer complaints both internally and using available public information, discussions with regulators and broader commentary within the industry.
TheCommittee was satisfied that the provisions, recovery under the indemnity and related disclosures inthe financial statements were appropriate.
Note 20 Recoverability At 31 December 2014, the Groups deferred tax assets included 106.4 million in respect of unutilised page 121 ofdeferred temporary differences arising in 2013 from the transfer of customer balances to the Group from taxassets LBGentities.
Continued recognition of this asset requires judgement in assessing the availability of future taxable profits to absorb these temporary differences.
The Committee received reports from management that concluded that sufficient taxable profits were forecast against which the full temporary difference is expected to be utilised.
Avariety of scenarios were considered by management in this assessment.
The Committee agreed with managements judgement that based on the Groups forecast taxable profits, continued recognition in full of the deferred tax asset remained appropriate.
Note 1 Effective At 31 December 2014, the Group carried an asset of 16.6 million, for accounting purposes, in respect page 106 interestrate of the deferred recognition of bonus interest payable on certain savings products.
Determining the methodology carrying value of this asset requires management to estimate the expected repayment profile of the savings balances.
The Committee received reports from management during the year summarising their approach to estimating the expected repayment profile of the savings balances which included consideration of the effect of new pricing on existing customer behaviour, developments in the industry, and an assessment of customers future behaviour in the current low interest rate environment.
The Committee was satisfied that the carrying value of the asset and the associated income recognition was appropriate.
Note 6 Fair value Accounting standards require the Group to disclose the fair value of financial instruments that are carried and 12 of financial on the balance sheet at amortised cost.
As quoted prices are not available for the Groups amortised cost pages 107 instruments financial instruments, estimating their fair value requires judgement.
The Committee received areport and 112 carried at from management summarising the methodology adopted, including the key inputs and judgements amortised cost required in estimating the fair values at 31 December 2014.
The Committee concluded that the approach adopted and the fair values disclosed were appropriate.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 Governance Audit Committee report continued iv The going concern statement Internal Audit The Committee considered managements approach to, and The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance the conclusions of, the assessment of the Groups ability to and effectiveness of Internal Audit.
During 2014, the Committee remain agoing concern.
The results of that assessment are set carried out this responsibility by: out in the Directors report on page 82.
Reviewing and approving the remit of Internal Audit, in line v Review of annual report with the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors July 2013 The Committee considered managements approach to, and Recommendations for Effective Internal Audit in the Financial governance arrangements over the preparation of this annual Services Sector: report and recommended to the Board that, taken as awhole the annual report was considered to be fair, balanced and Reviewing and approving the 2014 Internal Audit plans and understandable.
The approach and results of that assessment ensuring these had appropriate coverage of the business and are set out in the Directors report on page 83. were flexible and focused on the significant risk activities that the Group faced when continuing to build the bank in 2014: Internal controls and risk management systems The Committee is responsible for annually reviewing the Approving the Internal Audit budget, including bringing adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in subject matter expertise where appropriate, to deliver and risk management systems.
The key elements for the the audit plan: management of risk within the business and the system for internal controls are set out within the risk management Receiving regular reports on the significant recruitment framework see page 47.
In conducting the review the undertaken during 2014 to achieve the agreed Internal Audit Committee considered the following specific matters: organisational design: A detailed review of the Groups governance and internal Reviewing and approving the 2015 audit plan in line with the control framework: Groups strategy, ensuring that, as above, it has the flexibility to respond to important events as they arise: A review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control framework: Reviewing the interaction between Internal Audit and the Risk function: Regular management information on the activity of Internal Audit: and Confirming that Internal Audit makes independent assessments of the Groups control framework but is fully The review of aType 1 International Standard on Assurance informed by managements and the Risk functions reporting Engagements ISAE 3402 controls report from LBG on and views on risks and controls: and the design effectiveness of those controls operated on the Groups behalf by LBG under the TSA.
Receiving regular reports from the Chief Audit Officer on the range of Internal Audit activities undertaken in 2014 and Whistleblowing monitoring activities resulting from Internal Audit reports.
The Committee oversees the adequacy of TSBs whistleblowing arrangements, ensuring that they are proportionate for the Relationship with the external auditor Group and enable Partners and contractors to raise concerns, The Committee is responsible for the effectiveness of the in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting Groups relationship with its external auditor and for assessing or other matters.
In 2014, the Committee considered areport their independence and objectivity.
During 2014 the Committee on the whistleblowing arrangements within the Group and an discharged this responsibility by: overview of instances of whistleblowing.
The report concluded that there is awareness of whistleblowing processes and Agreeing the terms of the audit engagement letter: procedures within the Group and that there were no matters that would suggest these are not operating effectively.
Reviewing and challenging the external auditors audit Thereport concluded that there were no areas of concern strategy and their consideration of significant and ortrends identified and that appropriate action had been elevated audit risks: takenwith the small number of cases reported.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Approving apolicy governing the use of the external since 1997, and of the Company since its incorporation, both auditor for nonaudit services to safeguard their objectivity as part of the wider LBG audit relationship, the Committee and independence: has taken into account the knowledge and experience that PwC have of the Groups business and the potential burden Receiving reports from the external auditor covering of tendering the audit so soon after listing.
Consequently, managements estimates and judgements: the Committee has recommended to the Board that the reappointment of PwC is put to shareholders for the audit of Reviewing the outcomes of the Financial Reporting the 2015 financial statements along with aresolution for the CouncilsAudit Quality Review inspection reports as Board to set the remuneration and terms of engagement of the theyrelate to PwC and their potential consequences Companysauditor.
The Committee has also recommended fortheGroups audit: that the audit will be subject to tender in 2017, appointment effective for the audit of the 2018 financial statements.
Allan Having regard to the risk of aperceived impact on McGrath is the existing senior statutory auditor who is due to independence arising from the engagement by LBG rotate off the engagement following the conclusion of the audit of PwC as reporting accountant for the Groups listing of the 2016 financial statements.
prospectus: and Priorities for 2015 Considering the approach to obtaining independent During 2015, the Committee will ensure that the Committees assurance over outsourced controls.
priorities are aligned with the delivery of the Groups growth strategy.
The Committees focus will increasingly turn to In 2015 the Committee will continue to assess the Groups monitoring for the emergence of any strain on internal control relationship with the external auditor and expects to and financial reporting processes that this growth may bring.
augment the assessment process by formal enquiry of The Committee will ensure that the Internal Audit plan and its appropriate members of the Groups Board, Executive access to resources remain appropriate, enabling assurance andsenior management.
over the design and operation of the Groups governance, risk management and internal control frameworks.
TheCommittees The Committee is mindful of its obligations to tender the focus will also ensure that appropriate judgement is applied Groups external audit, at aminimum, every ten years and on emerging financial reporting matters and will monitor will develop an audit tendering policy in 2015.
While PwC the Groups preparations for changes to accounting for has held the position of external auditor of TSB Bank plc impairment of loans.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
