42 Governance Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction ordinary shares of 1p each.
The effect of this reorganisation At TSB, all our stakeholders are important to us.
The design was to insert the Company as the new immediate parent and operation of arobust governance structure appropriate company of TSB Bank plc.
Other significant transactions for agroup of TSBs scale and ambition is critical to undertaken to prepare the Company for Admission are meeting their needs.
described in the significant developments section of the Business review on page 17.
As I mentioned in my Chairmans letter on page 3, in positioning the Group to achieve this objective the Board was In preparation for the Companys listing, it was recognised enlarged ahead of its listing in June 2014.
Its members were that although the internal governance processes were selected to provide an appropriate balance of skills, experience, fit for purpose, additional work was required to enhance independence and knowledge of the Group and the UK retail the Company for listed status.
As aresult, anumber banking market.
of workstreams were put in place to ensure that the Companys operations as alisted company complied As aBoard, we endorse and subscribe to the brand and with relevant regulation and guidance.
Work included competitive positioning developed by the Executive, including creating and embedding the necessary policies and the five values by which all TSBs Partners seek to behave: procedures to meet the various corporate governance these values are to be Responsible, Transparent, Collaborative, andregulatory requirements applicable to the Company.
The corporate governance framework This values led approach is very much aligned to the Boards The corporate governance framework encompasses the collective commitment to operating to the highest standards Company, TSB Bank plc the Bank and any other subsidiaries of corporate governance.
We comply with both the letter and of the Company from time to time.
In addition, each Director spirit of the UK Corporate Governance Code, representing serves as aDirector on the Board of TSB Bank plc which is your interests as the Group delivers its strategy.
also chaired by Will Samuel.
The Board of the Company the Board as awhole is collectively responsible to shareholders for promoting the long term success of the Company by directing the Companys affairs.
The corporate governance framework is designed to assist the Board, the Board of the Bank and the Chief Executive Officer in discharging their duties by ensuring an appropriate scheme of delegation.
Thisisachieved through: Board Authorities which set out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board and the Bank Board to Board Will Samuel Committees and to the Chief Executive Officer: and Chairman Delegated Executive Authorities through which the Chief Executive Officer delegates aspects of his own authority to the Senior Executives and which sets out the support Compliance statement provided to him by the Executive Committees.
At 31 December 2014 TSB Banking Group plc the Company was fully compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate The corporate governance structure is supported by the Governance Code 2012 the Code which is available at internal governance framework as outlined on page 47. www.
The Company achieved premium listing on the London Stock Exchange on 25 June 2014.
The An important principle, applied throughout the Companys corporate governance statement and the reports of the Audit, governance framework, is that the delegation of executive Remuneration, Risk and Nomination Committees explain authority is to the individual office holders who may in turn how the provisions and principles of the FCA Listing Rules, delegate aspects of their authority to others.
Executive Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and the Code have committees may be established to support the individuals in been applied in the period from listing to 31 December 2014. exercising their delegated authorities but the committees do not separately hold any delegated authority in their own right.
Change in the structure of the Group and preparation for plc status The Corporate governance framework will be reviewed at least The Company was incorporated as awholly owned subsidiary annually by the Board to ensure that governance arrangements of Lloyds Bank plc on 31 January 2014.
On 25 April 2014, the are and remain effective.
Company acquired the entire issued share capital of TSB Bank plc from Lloyds Bank plc for aconsideration of 50,000,000 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The diagram below sets out the internal governance framework of Board and Executive Committees.
TSB Banking Group plc Board TSB Bank plc Board Remuneration Committee Board Risk Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Bank Executive Committee Executive Product and Model Governance Executive Risk Asset and Liability Disclosure Sales Governance Internal Audit Designated Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Spend Wise Product Pricing Committee Committee The role and responsibility of the Board ii Risk The Boards full responsibilities are set out in the matters Determining risk appetite, which defines the amount of risk reserved for the Board which are summarised below.
that the Board is prepared to take in pursuit of the Groups business objectives, including in periods of business and i Strategy operational stress.
Risk appetite is set and approved at Approving the Groups strategy and long term objectives and least annually: and ensuring that rigorous and robust processes are in place to monitor organisational delivery of the agreed strategy within Reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys and Banks risk appetite and in accordance with all applicable laws risk management and internal control systems.
and regulations: iii Shareholder communications Determining Board structure, size and composition for Approving the interim results, financial statements and annual the Company and TSB Bank plc, succession planning for report and accounts: members of the Company and Bank boards and committees, determining the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Approving the Groups dividend policy: and Director, Non-executive Directors, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors: Approving the resolutions and associated documentation for shareholders at ageneral meeting.
Approving the high level framework of Board delegations: Role of Directors Approving the share dealing code for Directors and other There is aclear division of responsibility between the Chairman Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities PDMR : and Chief Executive Officer, approved by the Board.
Approving the governance policy and noting funding, liquidity, i Chairman Pillar III disclosure and accounting policies: and The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and Bank Board and is pivotal in creating the conditions for overall Approving Group contracts with alifetime cost exceeding Board and individual Director effectiveness.
TheChairmans 10 million, existing contracts where the cost exceeds 20 key accountabilities are as follows: million, and approving sale and purchase of assets and raising capital approval of all contracts outside of the normal Building an effective and complementary Board: course of business.
Running the Board and setting its agenda: TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Ensuring the Board members receive accurate, Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting timelyandclear information: agreed goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance: Managing the Board and encouraging aculture ofopenness and debate: Satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and risk management systems are Ensuring effective communication with and chairing robust and defensible: and generalmeetings of shareholders: Determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Encouraging active engagement by all Board members: Executive Directors and having aprime role in appointing and where necessary removing Executive Directors and Demonstrating effective leadership: insuccession planning.
Upholding the highest standards of integrity, probity iv Senior Independent Director andcorporate governance: and The Senior Independent Directors role is defined as follows: Promoting effective relationships and open communication.
Acting as asounding board for the Chairman and to serve asan intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: ii Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for running the Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which business and has the following key responsibilities and cannot otherwise be resolved: accountabilities: Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairman: Leading the formulation of the Groups strategy: Reviewing the Chairmans performance: and Coordinating activities to implement strategy and for managing the business in accordance with the Groups Acting as an intermediary for Nonexecutive Directors where riskappetite and business plan approved by the Board: required to help them to challenge and contribute effectively.
Making decisions in all matters affecting the operations, Board membership and composition performance and strategy of the business, with the Certain responsibilities of the Board and Bank Board are exceptionof those matters reserved to the Board or delegated to the Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration specifically delegated by the Board to its committees: Committees of the Board to assist the Board and Bank Board in carrying out their functions and to ensure independent oversight Setting the tone at the top in relation to culture, ethos and of internal control and risk management.
TheCommittee terms of corporate social responsibility: reference are available on the Groupswebsite at www.
Establishing, maintaining and implementing the risk As at the date of this report the Board has 11 members and management and funding and liquidity frameworks iscomprised as follows: inlinewithBoard approved appetite for risk: and Non-executive Chairman Will Samuel independent on appointment The continuing review of the organisational structure of the Executive Directors Group and making recommendations for changes to optimise the use and adequacy of resources.
Chief Executive Officer Paul Pester Chief Financial Officer Darren Pope Other than matters expressly reserved to the Chief Executive Independent Officer, authority can be delegated to the respective Non-executive Directors Philip Augar Functional Heads Bank Executive Committee members, Professor Dame Sandra Dawson jointly or severally.
Senior Independent Director Sandy Kinney iii Non-executive Directors Stuart Sinclair Nonexecutive Directors have the same legal responsibilities as Polly Williams other Directors.
However the role of the Nonexecutive Director Norval Bryson has the following key elements: Non-executive Directors Mark Fisher Providing constructive challenge to management and helping Godfrey Robson CB to develop strategy: Full biographical details including their skills and experience are shown on pages 38 to 39.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
