54 Governance Board Risk Committee report Chairs introduction I present this Risk report in the knowledge that we have made good progress in developing capabilities and processes to manage our risk profile within risk appetite and to support the delivery of our strategy.
I was appointed Chair of the Committee on 25 June 2014 when the Group listed.
I have broad experience of the financial services industry.
Previously, I was asenior partner and Head of European Strategic Performance Improvement at PwC and have since gained extensive nonexecutive bank board experience.
I was amember of the board of the FSCS for six years and at Skipton Building Society for nine years, where I was the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Morerecently, I completed three years on the board of the Irish bank, Permanent TSB.
Currently I sit on the board of Findel plc, and MBNA Ltd.
I am also aFellow of the Chartered Institute ofManagement Accountants.
Effective risk At the same time I was appointed Chair, the Board also management plays appointed Polly Williams, Philip Augar and Stuart Sinclair to theCommittee.
The Committee members biographies are acentral role in the setout on pages 38 to 39. execution of the The report that follows describes the Committees Groupsstrategy.
responsibilities and its activities since it was established.
It explains the Committees work in assessing the balance between risk and reward and ensuring that the Group has astraightforward and responsible risk culture.
It explains the matters reviewed by the Committee, including oversight of current and emerging risks faced by the Group, deep dives to assess the management and mitigation of risk associated with strategic initiatives and its work to review the adequacy of the Groups impairment provisions.
The Committee also reviewed the activity of the Groups risk oversight function, including an assessment of its effectiveness and approved itsplans for 2015.
The Groups focus in 2014 was establishing TSB as alisted Group.
The Committees activities were consistent with that objective and I am satisfied with the progress made in 2014.
With the Group now concentrating on the delivery of its growth strategy, the Committee will continue to focus on the Groups risk appetite and emerging risks, the ongoing development of the risk management framework and the Groups compliance with regulatory requirements.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Membership and operation of the Committee ii Risk reporting across all risk types The Board Risk Committee comprises of four independent The Committee monitored and oversaw action plans to address Nonexecutive Directors, each with recent, relevant experience the Groups top risks that were escalated for its consideration.
in risk and banking and includes at least one member of the This included the review of the Groups five year plan and the Audit Committee.
key risks associated with it, monitoring risk appetite metrics and limits and debating the consequences of the Groups key As Chair of the Board Risk Committee, I provide verbal strategic and emerging risk profile.
updates to the Board, supported by accompanying risk reports from the Chief Risk Officer.
Further interaction with the iii Deep dives across different risk areas Board is achieved through significant Non-executive Director In 2014, Committee members were provided with afocused membership of the Committee.
review to deepen their understanding of specific risks and issues, with an assessment of appropriate activities to manage Board Risk Committee responsibilities and activity in 2014 and mitigate their impact.
These included deep dives on the The Committee is responsible for championing a straightforward development of the Groups mortgage intermediary channel, and responsible risk culture and ensuringan appropriate the Groups relationship with LBG, implications of the Scottish balance between risk and reward.
The Committees priorities independence referendum, and ongoing banking reform.
The include the delivery of transparent and fair outcomesfor Committee also reviewed discussion papers from regulators customers, asafe and resilient financial profile and collaborative and industry bodies on wider developments in the industry.
relationships with the Groups regulators and other stakeholders.
Priorities for 2015 The core activity of the Committee includes the review and During 2015 the Committee will continue to align its priorities oversight of the Groups risk management framework see to ensure effective delivery of the Groups growth strategy.
page 47, its risk appetite, and compliance with regulatory TheCommittees focus will also include the review of the requirements.
The Committee met four times during 2014 Groups risk appetite and emerging risks, and the extent and subsequent to its establishment and its focus on these core categories of risk which the Board regards as acceptable elements was supported by the following activities: for the Group.
The Committee will also oversee the ongoing development, implementation and embedding of the Groups i Regular review and approval of risk updates overall risk management framework and the Groups The Committee undertook regular oversight of the Groups compliance with regulatory requirements.
risk exposures and reviewed the development and approval of the Groups annual control self assessment.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups capital and liquidity adequacy levels, scenario analysis and reverse stress testing.
The Groups stress testing and scenario analysis programme is central to the analysis of the most material and emerging risks.
The Committee undertook areview of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Individual Liability Adequacy Assessment ILAA submissions including Sandy Kinney reviewing detailed scenario analysis, before their approval by Chair, Board Risk Committee the Board.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the Groups recovery and resolution planning, impairment provision adequacy reviews, annual product reviews, and engagement and communication with regulators.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
