47 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Internal governance framework iv Asset and Liability Committee An explanation of the Bank Executive Committee and its sub Chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, the Asset and committees is set out below.
LiabilityCommittee reports to the Board Risk Committee and is responsible for the strategic management of the i Bank Executive Committee Groups balance sheet and the risk management framework Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, the Bank Executive for all treasury risks.
These are principally market, liquidity, Committee is the Groups principal executive committee.
capital, counterparty credit risks and earnings volatility.
The Bank Executive Committee collectively supports the Chief Executive Officer in developing and implementing the v Spend Wise Committee Groups strategy, monitoring business performance and Chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, the Spend Wise agreeing any actions that are required to manage issues that Committee is responsible for the Groups expenditure.
Consideration is given to the interests of all TheCommittee ensures that the Group spends efficiently stakeholders, including customers, shareholders and Partners.
and reviews cost budgets and forecasts to ensure that they support the delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Committee All members of the Bank Executive Committee report to also considers requests for expenditure that are over certain the Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Chief Risk limits or are outside of forecast and budgets before they are Officer has areporting line to the Chair of the Board spent to ensure these requests represent value for money.
To protect the independence of Internal Audit, the Chief Audit Officers primary reporting line is vi Disclosure Committee to the Chair of the Audit Committee with asecondary Chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and overseen by the line reporting to the Chief Executive Officer.
Audit Committee, the Disclosure Committee is responsible foridentifying inside information and determining how Bank Executive Committee Sub-Committees and when the Group should disclose that information in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Committee also i Executive Risk Committee reviews and recommends to the Board or Audit Committee Chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, the Executive Risk items for approval, including, but not limited to, the annual Committee reviews and recommends overall risk appetite, report and accounts, preliminary announcement of annual including its allocation within the Group.
This Committee results, halfyear report and interim management statements.
provides oversight to assure the effective operation of governance, risk and control frameworks across the Group.
vii Executive Product and Sales Governance Committee The Executive Risk Committee also regularly reviews The Executive Product and Sales Governance Committee aggregate risk exposures, concentrations of risk and risk is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and is responsible versus reward returns and ensures that appropriate action for ensuring effective execution of the five key stages istaken where risk positions are considered inappropriate.
of the product lifecycle, providing strategic and senior oversight over the Product and Sales Governance ii Model Governance Designated Committee Policy to identify, measure, monitor and control risks Chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, the Model Governance associated with product and sales process activities.
Designated Committee approves, monitors and reviews material risk models across the Group.
This is also the Boards By order of the Board designated model governance committee.
iii Product Pricing Committee The Product Pricing Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for reviewing and approving pricing strategy and any decisions in relation to the pricing of the Groups products.
The Committee provides oversight over Susan Crichton the management of the relevant categories of risk, including Company Secretary, 24 February 2015 conduct risk, associated with product pricing strategies.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
