42 Governance Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction ordinary shares of 1p each.
The effect of this reorganisation At TSB, all our stakeholders are important to us.
The design was to insert the Company as the new immediate parent and operation of arobust governance structure appropriate company of TSB Bank plc.
Other significant transactions for agroup of TSBs scale and ambition is critical to undertaken to prepare the Company for Admission are meeting their needs.
described in the significant developments section of the Business review on page 17.
As I mentioned in my Chairmans letter on page 3, in positioning the Group to achieve this objective the Board was In preparation for the Companys listing, it was recognised enlarged ahead of its listing in June 2014.
Its members were that although the internal governance processes were selected to provide an appropriate balance of skills, experience, fit for purpose, additional work was required to enhance independence and knowledge of the Group and the UK retail the Company for listed status.
As aresult, anumber banking market.
of workstreams were put in place to ensure that the Companys operations as alisted company complied As aBoard, we endorse and subscribe to the brand and with relevant regulation and guidance.
Work included competitive positioning developed by the Executive, including creating and embedding the necessary policies and the five values by which all TSBs Partners seek to behave: procedures to meet the various corporate governance these values are to be Responsible, Transparent, Collaborative, andregulatory requirements applicable to the Company.
The corporate governance framework This values led approach is very much aligned to the Boards The corporate governance framework encompasses the collective commitment to operating to the highest standards Company, TSB Bank plc the Bank and any other subsidiaries of corporate governance.
We comply with both the letter and of the Company from time to time.
In addition, each Director spirit of the UK Corporate Governance Code, representing serves as aDirector on the Board of TSB Bank plc which is your interests as the Group delivers its strategy.
also chaired by Will Samuel.
The Board of the Company the Board as awhole is collectively responsible to shareholders for promoting the long term success of the Company by directing the Companys affairs.
The corporate governance framework is designed to assist the Board, the Board of the Bank and the Chief Executive Officer in discharging their duties by ensuring an appropriate scheme of delegation.
Thisisachieved through: Board Authorities which set out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board and the Bank Board to Board Will Samuel Committees and to the Chief Executive Officer: and Chairman Delegated Executive Authorities through which the Chief Executive Officer delegates aspects of his own authority to the Senior Executives and which sets out the support Compliance statement provided to him by the Executive Committees.
At 31 December 2014 TSB Banking Group plc the Company was fully compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate The corporate governance structure is supported by the Governance Code 2012 the Code which is available at internal governance framework as outlined on page 47. www.
The Company achieved premium listing on the London Stock Exchange on 25 June 2014.
The An important principle, applied throughout the Companys corporate governance statement and the reports of the Audit, governance framework, is that the delegation of executive Remuneration, Risk and Nomination Committees explain authority is to the individual office holders who may in turn how the provisions and principles of the FCA Listing Rules, delegate aspects of their authority to others.
Executive Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and the Code have committees may be established to support the individuals in been applied in the period from listing to 31 December 2014. exercising their delegated authorities but the committees do not separately hold any delegated authority in their own right.
Change in the structure of the Group and preparation for plc status The Corporate governance framework will be reviewed at least The Company was incorporated as awholly owned subsidiary annually by the Board to ensure that governance arrangements of Lloyds Bank plc on 31 January 2014.
On 25 April 2014, the are and remain effective.
Company acquired the entire issued share capital of TSB Bank plc from Lloyds Bank plc for aconsideration of 50,000,000 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
