45 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Board Committees In June 2014 the Board established aRisk Committee chaired by Sandy Kinney to oversee the management of the risks the Group faces and an Audit Committee chaired by Polly Williams to oversee financial reporting and internal control.
The Board also established aNomination Committee chaired by Will Samuel to lead the process for appointments to the Board, as well as aRemuneration Committee chaired by Dame Sandra Dawson, which has created and brought into operation the new approach to remuneration that supports the ongoing delivery of sustainable performance.
The Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees have each prepared reports which include afull discussion on their role, structure and composition.
Meeting attendance The table below sets out the attendance of Directors at Board meetings and the attendance of Committee members at the relevant Committee meetings during the year.
Audit Risk Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Board meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Name of Director attended attended attended attended attended Number of meetings held 11 5 4 7 2 Will Samuel 11 out of 11 1 Paul Pester 11 out of 11 1 Darren Pope 11 out of 11 3 6 Philip Augar 7 out of 9 4 out of 4 6 out of 7 1 5 6 Norval Bryson 9 out of 11 3 out of 4 6 out of 7 3 Dame Sandra Dawson 9 out of 9 7 out of 7 4 5 6 Mark Fisher 5 out of 6 3 out of 4 3 6 Sandy Kinney 8 out of 9 4 out of 5 4 out of 4 1 5 Godfrey Robson 11 out of 11 5 out of 5 3 6 Stuart Sinclair 7 out of 9 4 out of 5 4 out of 4 3 6 Polly Williams 8 out of 9 5 out of 5 3 out of 4 7 out of 7 1 Appointed to the Board on 31 January 2014 2 Appointed to the Board on 7 March 2014 3 Appointed to the Board on 16 May 2014 4 Appointed to the Board on 27 June 2014 5 Norval Bryson is paid afee for attending the Risk and Remuneration Committees, Godfrey Robson is paid afee for attending the Audit Committee and Mark Fisher is paid afee for attending the Risk Committee.
Accordingly their attendance at these committee meetings is disclosed in the table above, although they are not members of these committees.
Their attendance and participation at these meetings for atransitional period enhances the discussion and ensures their experience and knowledge of the Group assists the committees in discharging their duties effectively.
6 D irectors not able to attend meetings due to longstanding prior commitments or illness, provided comments to the relevant Chair on matters to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
Board development programme Each of the Non-executive Directors appointed to the Board during 2014, including the Chairman, completed arigorous induction programme, the exception to this being Godfrey Robson and Norval Bryson, who were existing Directors of TSB Bank plc.
Theinduction programme covered awide range of areas including strategy and markets, capital and liquidity, conduct matters, the control environment and UK and EU regulatory architecture and infrastructure.
All Directors took part in further training to prepare them for their roles as Directors of alisted company.
Additional role specific training was also provided to those Nonexecutive Directors who have additional responsibilities and accountability within the Board structure, i. e. the Chairman andchairs of the respective committees.
Finally, Non-executive Directors were given the opportunity to request additional training in order that they could become fully comfortable with their role within the Board and to ensure that they were able to contribute tothe operation of the Board and success of the Company in the fullest manner possible.
On an ongoing basis, deep dive sessions are regularly held to allow Non-executive Directors to explore key strategic and risk issues outside of the time constraints of aformal board meeting.
Anumber of such sessions, run by relevant members of the Bank Executive Committee, were held during 2014 and covered topics including possible product launches and changes and the review of liquidity stress scenarios.
The Chairman, as required by the Code, maintains an oversight of the training and development requirements of the Board, supported by the Company Secretarial and Risk functions.
This support includes aquarterly review by the Risk function of mandatory training for the Groups Partners and the applicability of extending anumber of these sessions to one or more of the Directors, as considered appropriate.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
