48 Governance Nomination Committee report Chairmans introduction All the current Nomination Committee members are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is authorised by the Board to keep the composition of the Board under review and to lead the process for appointments to the Board, Board Committees and the chairmanship of those Committees.
It is also responsible for keeping the structure, size and composition of the Board under regular review, and for making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes necessary.
The Nomination Committee also considers succession planning for the Board, taking into account the skills and expertise that will be needed onthe Board in the future.
The members of the Nomination Committee are as follows: WillSamuel Chairman, Dame Sandra Dawson, Philip Augar and Stuart Sinclair.
The Committee was appointed on 22 May 2014 and had its first meeting in January 2015.
The Board values Recruitment of Non-executive Directors Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann KFWM was used to assist with the selection diversity in the of Non-executive Directors prior to the IPO and before the Committee had been established.
Since then, and up to the date of this report, no further boardroom and Board appointments have been made.
However, the Board is currently considering the appointment of aNon-executive Director with retail banking believes that creating experience to enhance the Boards skills in this area.
KFWM is assisting an inclusive and diverse with this.
Other than this, KFWM has assisted with the recruitment and assessment of certain members of the Executive team.
culture supports the Diversity attraction and retention The Group is committed to fair and consistent treatment of all Partners regardless of their personal characteristics which include gender, of talented people ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, transgender status, disability, nationality or age.
The Board has adopted this approach to diversity and and enhances the has regard to it when considering Board candidates who are always assessed against objective criteria and appointed on merit.
This has success of the Group.
helped us develop adiverse Board with amix of perspectives where challenge is encouraged.
We currently have 27% women on the Board: although this may change over time as the Board is refreshed and new appointments are made.
In identifying candidates for future appointments, the Committee will consider the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required on the Board for aparticular appointment.
The number of women in senior management positions and throughout theGroup is set out in the Responsibility review on page 34.
The Chairmans other significant interests My other significant commitments are as detailed on page 38.
Therehavebeen no changes to them during the period from appointmentto 31 December 2014.
Will Samuel Chairman TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
