Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder The Directors, whose names and details are set out on page24and 25, are responsible for the corporate governance 2014 has been a year of considerable change for the Company.
They are committed to ensuring that from We completed our largest acquisition in many years, PVM.
thetop downwards the highest standards of corporate Weare delighted with its progress to date.
More broadly, governance are maintained.
They support the principles of though, we initiated an in-depth strategic review with outside good corporate governance and code of best practice laid consultants and we will be working through the outcome of down in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the that exercise in the coming weeks and months.
Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code, The amount of change has been significant at Board level which is publicly available at www.
Terry Smith, our previous Chief Executive, retired at the theyear ended 31December 2014 the Board believes it has end of August 2014 and John Phizackerley succeeded him as complied with theprinciples and provisions recommended Chief Executive from the beginning of September.
made an excellent start and he is leading the strategic review More detail covering all aspects of our corporate governance mentioned above.
With the continuing rapid and substantial isset out in the following pages with a view to giving a change experienced in a number of the facets of our business, rounded and comprehensive picture of how the Board sets the for example technological, regulatory and client-base, it is tone andthe framework necessary to achieve the Companys already proving hugely helpful to look at our business from strategic objectives whilst at the same time managing the the ground up.
As a Board and through the Nominations Committee, we spend considerable time on considering the right balance of skills, experience and diversity on the Board.
The range of Rupert Robson expertise and backgrounds that we have encompasses, Chairman innoparticular order, markets, conduct and compliance, 3 March 2015 technological, international, accounting, management andcommercial.
David Shalders joined the Board on 27 February 2014 and has contributed significantly throughout the last 12 months.
His background in technology and regulation has been valuable to our thinking.
Three important areas in which we have already made recent changes are risk management, conduct and compliance.
The process of change and upgrading of these areas continues.
In order to embed and ensure the success of our efforts, we have decided to create a new Risk Committee of the board.
We are currently engaged in recruiting a new Non-executive Director of the Company who will also be Chairman of this Risk Committee as well as acting as Non-executive Chairman of the Companys UK regulated entities and their risk committees.
To ensure the success of all these developments requires thatthe Company has a culture of openness, honesty and transparency.
This culture must, and does, come from the top, from the Board, and is rooted in the highest standards of corporate governance.
28 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Composition of the Board Induction, professional development and The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, corporate awareness fourindependent Non-executive Directors and a NonAll Directors receive an induction to the Company on joining executive Chairman.
theBoard and relevant training is available to Directors to assistthem in the performance of their duties.
The Chairman There were several Board changes during 2014.
David Shalders is responsible for ensuring that Directors continually update was appointed as an independent Non-executive Director on their skills and knowledge and familiarity with the Company 27 February 2014, Terry Smith retired as Chief Executive with required to fulfil their role on the Board and its Committees.
effect from 31 August 2014 and John Phizackerley was The Audit and Remuneration Committees receive briefings appointed as Chief Executive on 1 September 2014. oncurrent developments.
The Non-executive Directors take The Chairman, Rupert Robson, was, at appointment, advantage ofsector and general conferences and seminars independent of the Company and the management, but, as and training events organised by professional firms and Chairman, is not classified as independent under the Code.
His receive circulars and training materials from the Company other significant commitments are noted in his biography on andother professional advisers.
Presentations are made to page 24. theBoard by members of the Companys Executive Committee and arrangements are made for Non-executive Directors to The Directors biographies on page 24 demonstrate the meet members of the management teams.
Boards depth and breadth of experience and skill.
Five of theDirectors including four of the Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors periodically visit the Companys have extensive previous experience at senior levels in the international offices, usually in connection with other financial services sector.
Two of the Directors are chartered activities.
The Board is kept informed of any material accountants one of who was an audit partner in a major firm shareholder correspondence, brokers reports on the Company of accountants.
The Finance Director was previously Finance and sector, institutional voting agency recommendations and Director of a number of other companies.
documents reflecting current shareholder thinking.
There is a clearly defined and documented division of Conflicts of interest responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board Executivethat is reviewed annually.
The primary responsibility toconsider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where of the Chairman is the leadership of the Board.
The primary aDirector has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly responsibility of the Chief Executive is the running of the conflict, with the interests of the Company a Relevant Companys operations, maintaining effective management Situation.
The Board has a formal system in place for and the development and implementation of strategy in order Directors to declare Relevant Situations to be considered to maximise shareholder value.
forauthorisation by those Directors who have no interest The Board allows the Executive Directors to take up inthe matter being considered.
In deciding whether to appointments with other companies on the proviso that the authorise a Relevant Situation, the non-conflicted Directors time commitment involved is not too onerous and would not must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be conflict with their duties to the Company.
most likely topromote the success of the Company, and they may imposelimits or conditions when giving the authorisation The terms of the Directors service agreements and letters or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The Board ofappointment are summarised in the Report on Directors hasfollowed the prescribed procedures in deciding whether, Remuneration.
The service agreements and the letters of and on what terms, to authorise Relevant Situations and appointment will be available for inspection during normal believes that thesystems it has in place for reporting and business hours on any weekday other than public holidays considering Relevant Situations, including an annual review atthe Companys registered office, and at the AGM from ofauthorisations, continue to operate effectively.
During fifteen minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
theyear the independent Non-executive Directors, led by theSenior Independent Non-executive Director, reviewed Independence of Directors theexternal business commitments of members of the The Board has determined that all of the Non-executive Boardand concluded that none of these gave rise to conflicts Directors are independent.
The Senior Independent Nonof interest or other factors which might affect the effective executive Director has responsibility for dealing with any operation of the Company or the Board.
shareholders who have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Performance evaluation Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is Reviews of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director andthe performance of individual Directors were undertaken provides a sounding board for the Chairman and is available to in2014.
The effectiveness of the Board was reviewed internally act as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
byway of an on-line questionnaire using Evalu8.
The outcomes ofthe questionnaire were discussed at a Board meeting and followup actions proposed.
The review of the Boards effectiveness concluded that the Board was operating effectively.
The effectiveness of the Boards Committees was also undertaken using Evalu8 and similarly concluded that the Boards Committees Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 29 Corporate Governance Report continued were operating effectively.
Last year an independent facilitator, the approval of the prosecution or settlement of all Lygon Group was used and it is the Companys intention to have litigation which is material to the interests of the Group: afurther external review in 2016. reporting to shareholders: and Performance evaluations of individual Directors were environmental, social and governance policies, including alsoundertaken which considered the effectiveness and corporate social responsibility policy.
commitment of the individual Directors and the need for anytraining or development.
In January 2015 the Chairman Beneath the Board there is a structure of delegated authority formally met the Non-executive Directors without the which sets out the authority levels allocated to the individual Executive Directors being present to evaluate the performance Directors and senior management.
of the individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Non-executive Director and the other Non-executive Directors Nominations Committees to which it has delegated some of met without the Chairman being present to evaluate the itsresponsibilities.
Each of the Committees has detailed terms Chairmans performance, having first obtained feedback from of reference, which can be viewed on the Companys website the Executive Directors.
Appropriate feedback was provided and a schedule of business to be transacted during the year.
The Chairman has also provided Theterms of reference of the Audit Committee were amended feedback on performance to the Non-executive Directors.
in January 2014 to take account of additional responsibilities introduced by the UK Governments new reporting Election or re-election at the AGM requirements.
The responsibilities of the Nominations and At the 2012 AGM, amendments to the Companys Articles Audit Committees together with an overview of their work withregard to re-election of Directors were approved in order during the year are described below.
A separate report for the to align them with the recommendations set out in the Code.
Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 35 to 48.
Consequently, the Articles require that, at each AGM of the Company, all Directors must retire from office and each The Board and its Committees are provided with appropriate Director wishing to serve again must submit themselves information on a timely basis to enable them to discharge forelection orre-election by shareholders.
All Directors receive written reports prior to each meeting which enable them to make an informed decision on Details of those Directors who are submitting themselves for corporate and business issues under review.
election or re-election at this years AGM are set out in the separate notice of meeting.
All Board meetings are minuted and any unresolved concerns are recorded in such minutes.
John Phizackerley was appointed since the last AGM and accordingly is subject to election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Group has a comprehensive system for financial reporting TheBoard believes that John Phizackerley brings extensive which is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
expertise in major financial institutions to the Company, Budgets, regular re-forecasts and monthly management whichwill enable him to make a valuable contribution to accounts including KPIs, income statements, balance sheets theCompany, given the significant changes which the IDB and cash flows are prepared at all levels of the business and industry continues to undergo and the Board recommends consolidated reports are reviewed by the Board.
The Board has a schedule of eight meetings each year to The Chairman has confirmed in the Chairmans Statement, discuss the Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort and the Board is satisfied that, following formal performance ismade to arrange these meetings so that all Directors can evaluation, the performance of each of the Directors offering attend: additional meetings are arranged as required.
themselves for re-election continues to be effective, and that The table below sets out the Board and Committee each demonstrates commitment to the role.
attendance record during the year.
Biographies of all Directors are set out on page 24.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and there are procedures in place for taking Board Process independent professional advice at the Companys expense ifrequired.
The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters reserved to it The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the fordecision, which can be viewed on the Companys website Board keeps up to date with key changes in legislation which www.
The Schedule includes, among affect the Company.
The appointment or removal of the otherthings: Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
approval of the Groups strategy: changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure: oversight of the Groups management, governance and control structure: approval of any material borrowing or commitment: Board appointments and removals: 30 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Board and Committee attendance record Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors John Phizackerley appointed 1 September 2014 3 3 Terry Smith retired 31 August 2014 5 5 1 Paul Mainwaring 7 8 Non-executive Directors Rupert Robson 8 8 3 3 Angela Knight 8 8 4 4 6 6 3 3 Roger Perkin 8 8 4 4 5 6 3 3 Stephen Pull 8 8 4 4 6 6 3 3 David Shalders 7 7 5 5 Excludes meetings of Committees of the Board appointed to complete routine business or business previously approved by the Board.
1 Paul Mainwaring missed the Board meeting in November 2014 as he was required to give evidence at the New Jersey Superior Court.
Work of the Nominations Committee Nominations Committee As reported in last years Annual Report, the Nominations Committee dealt with the appointment of Non-executive Director David Shalders.
The appointment was made with The Nominations Committee is chaired by Rupert Robson.
theexplicit intention of raising the Boards general level Theother members throughout the year were Angela Knight, ofawareness in the areas of technology and regulation.
Roger Perkin and Stephen Pull.
Consideration was given to the question of diversity, including All members of the Committee, other than the Chairman, are gender, and the search duly considered female candidates too.
During the year the Nominations Committee undertook The Board has delegated responsibility to the Nominations aprocess to recruit a new Chief Executive to succeed Committee for: TerrySmith and the services of an external search consultant were retained to assist it.
At the conclusion of the process, reviewing the balance and skill, knowledge and experience theNominations Committee recommended to the Board of the Board: theappointment of John Phizackerley as the new Chief agreeing and implementing procedures for the selection of Executive.
In recommending this appointment to the Board, new Board appointments: and the Committee noted his distinguished track record in the investment banking industry including his roles at Lehman making recommendations to the Board on all proposed new Brothers and Nomura Bank and his wide international appointments, elections and re-elections of Directors at experience.
The Committee also judged that he displayed Annual General Meetings.
thecharacteristics of a strong andcapable Chief Executive.
The Nominations Committee is authorised to obtain all The external search consultancy retained by the Board in necessary information from within the Company and to respect of John Phizackerleys appointment was Spencer accessprofessional advice inside and outside the Company, Stuart.
The Company does not have any other connection asitconsiders necessary.
The Terms of Reference of the withSpencer Stuart.
Nominations Committee are available on the Companys website www.
The Nominations Committee has initiated a search for anewNon-executive Director with specific experience in The Company has plans in place for orderly succession for riskmanagement.
The individual will be the Chairman of appointments to the Board and to senior management, so as anewRiskCommittee of the Board.
It is anticipated that a to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience recommendation will be made to the Board in the first half within the Company and on the Board and to ensure the of2015.
progressive refreshing of the Board.
The search for Board candidates is conducted with due regard to the benefits of The Nominations Committee implemented formal succession diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Board makes plans in the event that the Chief Executive or Financial Officer appointments on merit against objective criteria and was absent on short notice.
The Executive Directors were asked accordingly it does not set diversity targets.
to propose similar short term succession plans for each of the members of the Executive Committee.
The Committee also considered longer term succession within the Group at a senior level and has discussed this topic with the Chief Executive.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 31 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Relations with Shareholders Chairmans Statement The Board recognises the importance of communication with Dear Shareholder shareholders.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce com, provides information for shareholders and prospective this report which sets out how the Committee has discharged its investors on the Groups activities, results, products and responsibilities during the year.
The Committees primary focus is recent developments.
to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting by reviewing the There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund controls in place and those areas where judgement is required.
managers and analysts, including presentations around the The other key areas in the Terms of Reference are set out below.
time of the results announcements and also on request.
Outside of the formal Committee meetings, I maintain regular During 2014 the Company recorded a webcast of its 2014 dialogue with internal and external auditors.
Additionally I interim results presentation, which is also now available for visited the Group in both New York and Singapore where I met download onthe Companys website.
The Chairman had both with local management and auditors in order better to contact with all of the largest shareholders and intends to understand local issues and the respective audit arrangements.
maintain regular contact in future.
During the year the As requested by the Board, the Committee has considered the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee additionally met processes and controls in place to help ensure that the Annual with many of the Companys largest shareholders as part of Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the the consultation on Executive Director remuneration.
As a result of this work the Committee concluded that The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the the processes and controls were appropriate and was able to otherNon-executive Directors are available to meet with provide positive assurance to the Board.
shareholders, should such meetings be requested.
For the payment of the recommended final dividend for 2014 Roger Perkin and future dividends, the Company has put in place a facility Chairman forpayments to be made via CREST.
Audit Committee Annual General Meeting 3 March 2015 The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and Composition welcomes their participation.
Notice of the AGM and related Roger Perkin chaired the Audit Committee throughout the papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days year.
The other members of the Committee throughout the before the meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of year were Angela Knight and Stephen Pull.
All members of the Directors, including Chairmen of the Committees of the theCommittee are independent Non-executive Directors.
Board, are available at AGMs to answer questions and meet TheAuditCommittee Chairman has recent and relevant shareholders.
The proxy votes cast on each resolution financial experience.
proposed at general meetings are disclosed at those meetings.
To encourage shareholder participation, those shareholders The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys whose shares are held via the CREST system are offered the external and internal auditors, and other senior risk facility to submit their proxy votes via CREST.
management and finance personnel attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee has a discussion with the external auditor at least once a year without the Executive Directors being present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Terms of Reference Throughout 2014 the Audit Committees terms of referenceincluded: recommendation on appointment and terms of engagement of the external auditor: review of independence and objectivity of the externalauditor: approval of the annual audit plan, scope of engagement and review of effectiveness of the audit process: monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements: review of the results of the audit: review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management procedures: approval of the annual internal audit plan, review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function, and consideration of internal audit reports: 32 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information review of the arrangements by which staff may, in independent audit and the booking of any audit adjustments confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in financial arising and the timely provision of draft public documents for reporting and other matters: and review by the auditor and the Audit Committee.
provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report, The Audit Committee also monitored performance during taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and theaudit of the 2014 financial statements which included provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess receiving feedback from senior management.
The conclusion the Companys performance, business model andstrategy.
from this exercise was that the 2014 external audit had beeneffective.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Companys website www.
Review of the Financial Statements The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the Work of the Audit Committee since the date of Consolidated Financial Statements included in the half-year and preliminary announcements of results and the 2014 the last Annual Report Annual Report, prior to their approval by the Board.
The Audit Committee was engaged in a number of workstreams during 2014 as described below.
When conducting the review, the Committee considered thecontinuing appropriateness of the accounting policies, Audit tenders important financial reporting judgements and the adequacy Deloitte LLP Deloitte has been the Companys auditor since and appropriateness of disclosures.
The Audit Committee its listing in December 2006. alsoreviewed the content of the Annual Report and advised In 2013 the Board put the external audit contract out for tender theBoard that, in its view, the Annual Report, taken as a and concluded that Deloitte should be re-appointed and that a whole, isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the new lead audit partner would be appointed to the Companys information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups audit by Deloitte in 2014 in accordance with normal rotation performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee will monitor developments in The Audit Committee considered the following judgements in best practice with regard to audit tender arrangements.
connection with the 2014 Consolidated Financial Statements At the same time that the external audit was put out for and were satisfied that the judgements were appropriate: tender, the Audit Committee also reviewed the Companys Acquisition of PVM Oil Associates Limited PVM internal audit arrangements.
The Audit Committee made a On 26 November 2014, the Group completed the acquisition recommendation to the Board that KPMG should provide the of PVM.
In accordance with relevant accounting standards, resources to lead and manage the Companys internal audit management with the assistance of independent valuation activities, and KPMG assumed responsibility for the Groups specialists conducted a review of the acquired assets and Internal Audit with effect from 1 July 2014. liabilities to establish the nature and value of any separately External auditor effectiveness and independence identifiable intangible assets.
Additionally, the exercise In considering the 2014 Annual Report, the Audit Committee estimated the total fair value of assets and liabilities reviewed the objectivity and independence of the external acquired, so as to establish the amount of goodwill to be auditor.
The Audit Committee considered the professional and recognised.
Finally it was necessary to understand the regulatory guidance on auditor independence and Deloittes nature of earn out and related contractual obligations so as policies and procedures for managing independence and was to establish the correct accounting for the income stream.
satisfied with the auditors representations.
The Audit The Committee received reports on the above issues Committee reviewed the level of fees paid to the auditor in frommanagement, satisfied itself that all material facts respect of the various non-audit services provided during 2014 which are disclosed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial hadbeen taken into account, and concluded that the Statements.
The auditor confirmed to the Audit Committee presentation of the PVM related balances is appropriate.
that they did not believe that the level of non-audit fees had Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles affected their independence.
The Companys policy is to use the The key elements involved in the review of goodwill for most appropriate advisers for non-audit work, taking account of impairment are described in Note 13: and the procedures the need to maintain independence.
To this end, the Company adopted by the external auditor in their report.
has defined those activities which cannot be provided by the external auditor in order to maintain independence.
The Audit The Committee considered whether the facts taken into Committee reviewed this policy during the year to ensure that it account were complete and consistent with the Groups continues to follow best practice.
business planning process, and challenged the auditor as tothe extent to which they had examined potential stress During the year the Audit Committee considered the outcomes to the base case used, particularly in areas where effectiveness of the external audit process including there is limited headroom.
theirexpertise, efficiency, global service delivery and cost effectiveness.
The effectiveness of management in the Based on the above the Committee is satisfied with theprocess external audit process is assessed principally in relation to undertaken and the resultant financial statement impact.
thetimely identification and resolution of areas of accounting judgement, the quality and timeliness of papers analysing those judgements, managements approach to the value of Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 33 Corporate Governance Report continued Taxation This process has been in place for the year under review and Notwithstanding the Groups low appetite for complex up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, is reviewed taxstructuring, the dynamic nature of its global operations regularly by the Board and accords with the FRCs Internal necessarily gives rise to uncertainties where judgements Control : Guidance for Directors.
needto be made as to likely outcomes.
Management regularly The Audit Committee conducted a formal review of the presents the status of open tax issues to the Committee, and, effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems for 2014, it is satisfied that an appropriately considered and prudent considering reports from management, external audit and the approach is taken to tax provisioning.
work of the Group risk control and internal audit functions.
Revenue Effectiveness of Internal Audit The recognition of revenue by the Group requires little The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and judgement but is reliant to a significant degree on strong reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
The internal internal controls see below.
audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee and kept Going concern underreview during the year, in order to reflect the changing The assumptions relating to the going concern review were business needs and to ensure new and emerging risks are considered, including the medium term projections, stress considered.
During 2014 the Audit Committee reviewed tests and mitigation plans.
On the basis of the review the thework and reports of Internal Audit, together with Audit Committee advised the Board that it was appropriate implementation of internal audit recommendations and for the Annual Report and Financial Statements to be monitored progress against the internal audit plan for the prepared on the going concern basis.
first half of 2014 to ensure that the audit plan had been completed effectively.
Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the internal and ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk audit plan for the new internal audit year, running from 1 July management framework and for monitoring the ongoing 2014 to30 June 2015, prepared by the new head of internal process for identifying, evaluating, managing and reporting audit, and reviewed the work and reports of internal audit the significant risks faced by the Group.
Risk Management Framework and principal risks are described Confidential reporting in the Risk Management section of the Strategic Report.
The Audit Committee reviewed arrangements by which staff During 2014 the Audit Committee twice reviewed and may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in approved the Risk Assessment Framework.
matters of financial reporting or other matters.
In conducting The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of the review, the Committee took into account whether the internalcontrol and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The policies were in line with guidance published by the FCA.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk offailure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
In discharging its responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit Committee to carry out the annual review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and to report to the Board thereon.
34 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014
