Report of the Audit Committee Risk Statement by the Chairman of the Committee Management has identified Strategic Report pages 18 to 20 five main areas of potential risk: market and investment As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am portfolio, liquidity, operational, corporate governance pleased to present the Report of the Committee for the year and accounting, legal and regulatory and has set out the ended 31 December 2014. actions taken to evaluate and manage these risks.
The auditors have also detailed two specific areas of risk in their Composition and responsibilities of the Committee report: Investment valuation and ownership of investments The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, and have set out the work they have performed to satisfy including its Chairman, who are appointed by the %oard.
themselves that these have been properly reflected in the I was appointed Chairman of the Committee in 2007. financial statements.
The Committee reviews the various The{%oard has taken note of the requirement that at least actions{taken and satisfies itself that they are sufficient: one member of the Committee should have recent and in{particular the Committee reviews managements Risk relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Report at each meeting and requires amendments to both Committee is properly constituted in this respect, as I am risks and mitigation actions if{appropriate.
a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in  LLP.
Mr Watson, who was appointed Meetings of the Committee to the Committee in 2006, and Mrs Claydon who was The Committee held three meetings during 2014, in February, appointed to the Committee in August 2013, were members August and 1ovember and also met in February 2015. of the Committee throughout the year.
Details of their Representatives of the external auditor were present at the qualifications and experience are given on pages 26 and 27. meetings held in February 2014 and 2015 and 1ovember 2014.
I report to the %oard after each meeting on the main The role of the Committee is to assist the directors in matters discussed at the meeting.
In summary, the main applying financial reporting and internal control principles matters dealt with at these meetings were as follows: and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups Assessment of the controls to ensure the ownership, auditor.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out valuation and liquidity of investments: this includes in its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate assessing management reports on the controls and Governance Code.
The terms of reference are available on procedures of external managers and the external request from the Company Secretary and can be seen on custodian administrator and the review of the audit the Companys website www.
In summary, the work performed.
Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements, including consideration of Interim and year-end reporting, in the light of the the Companys accounting policies and significant reporting requirements of the revised Code of Corporate judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial Governance issued by the{AIC, the Financial Reporting controls and risk management systems using an external Councils revised Guidance on Audit Committees and consultant where appropriate.
the requirement for{a Strategic Report.
The Committee agreed the process, timing and responsibility for compliance.
The installation of WIS as AIFM and the resulting changes to corporate governance including committee structures and terms of reference and compliance with FCA regulations.
42 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information A variety of more detailed matters including the The Committee approved the proposed audit fee.
The{Committee has a rule that a specified engagement of adequacy of procedures and monitoring to ensure internal controls, whistleblowing, anti-money the auditor to provide non-audit services cannot exceed 50% of the annual audit fees without Committee approval.
laundering compliance, data and IT systems protection and business continuity.
As noted in note 5 on page 70, the Committee approved the appointment of Deloitte LLP to provide advice on one-off In the light of the relative simplicity of the operations withholding tax claims.
The appointment, which was made and the use of independent external consultants to on a one-off basis, was awarded on a competitive basis and advise on regulatory compliance and adherence to the Committee satisfied itself that Deloittes audit teams and internal procedures, it was concluded that no internal tax advisory team were independent of each other.
Although audit function was required see page 41. the fees paid to date for this work have amounted to 47,000, the Committee is pleased to note that, to date, 581,000 Going concern of withholding tax has been recovered and it is hoped that The Committee considered the issue of going concern and further recoveries will be made in future.
recommended that the %oard should continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
Financial statements The{%oards conclusions are set out under Liquidity on The %oard has requested the Committee to confirm that in page{19 and under note 1 b on page 66. its opinion the %oard can make the required statement that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and External audit understandable and provides the information necessary The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, audit process, including agreeing the auditors assessments business model and strategy.
The Committee has given of materiality, and monitors the auditors independence and this confirmation on the basis of its review of the whole objectivity.
It conducted a formal review of the performance document, underpinned by involvement in the planning of the auditor during the year and concluded that for its preparation, review of the processes to assure the performance was satisfactory and there were no grounds for accuracy of factual content, and by assurances from the change.
Deloitte & Touche, a predecessor firm of Deloitte LLP, was Approval first appointed as the Companys auditor in March 1997.
This report was approved by the Committee on 10 March The audit was subject to competitive tender in 2007, at 2015 and is signed on its behalf by: which time Deloitte LLP was reappointed.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
A new Robert Boyle partner has taken on responsibility for the audit with effect Chairman of the Audit Committee from the audit of the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Committee reviews the performance 10 March 2015 of the auditors annually.
Relevant guidance on audit rotation will be complied with.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 43
