Corporate Governance Statement Background The %oard considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency AIC Guide which incorporates the Corporate Governance Rules the Disclosure Rules require listed companies to Code will provide better information to shareholders.
disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company has complied with the recommendations of the the Corporate Governance Code, as issued by the Financial AIC Code and the best practice provisions of the Corporate Reporting Council the FRC.
The provisions of the Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December Governance Code, which was issued by the FRC in September 2014 except as set out below: 2012, were applicable in the year under review.
The Corporate Governance Code can be viewed at www.
The Corporate Governance Code C. 3.5 includes provisions relating to the need for an internal audit The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, function.
As explained on page 41, the Company does issued by the Association of Investment Companies the not{have an internal audit function.
AIC, provides specific corporate governance guidelines The Corporate Governance Code %.
The FRC has confirmed that provisions relating to the annual re-election of all AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code directors.
As explained on page 34, the Company and who follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for considers that this provision is inappropriate to the Investment Companies the AIC Guide will be meeting their Company.
obligations in relation to the Corporate Governance Code and the associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure The %oard has noted the recommendations of the new edition Rules.
The AIC Code issued in February 2013 was applicable of the Corporate Governance Code, which was published by in the year under review.
The AIC Code can be viewed at the{FRC in September 2014 and which are reected in the new www.
AIC Code which was published in March 2015.
These new Codes{apply to reporting periods beginning on or after Compliance 1{2ctober 2014.
{The %oard will report on its compliance with The %oard has considered the principles and the{recommendations of the new AIC Code in the Companys recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the 2015 Annual Report.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate The principles of the AIC Code Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles The AIC Code is made up of twenty one principles.
Its three and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance sections cover the %oard: board meetings and relations with the to the Company.
investment managers: and shareholder communications.
32 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The %oard 1.
The chairman should Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since the Annual General Meeting in March 2003: he joined the %oard in be independent.
The %oard considers that Mr Henderson is, and has been since his appointment, an independent non-executive director.
Independence stems from the ability to make those objective decisions that may be in conict with the interests of management: this in turn is a function of confidence, integrity and judgement.
Mr Henderson has served on the %oard for more than nine years.
Accordingly, he stands for re-election by the shareholders each year and will do so for as long as he continues to serve on the %oard.
The %oard is rmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
The other independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, review and evaluate annually the performance and continuing independence of the Chairman.
Mr Henderson was formerly a partner of Cazenove Co. the rm which for many years has acted as the Companys stockbroker.
However, he did not have responsibility for or involvement with Cazenoves role with the Company, being for many years responsible for aspects of Cazenoves fund management division.
Accordingly, the %oard considers that the Chairman has no relationships that might create a conict of interest between his interests and those of the other shareholders.
Mr A Watson was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in February 2008.
As noted above, he takes the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
He is also able to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors, should this prove necessary, and to act as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve concerns or is inappropriate.
At 31 December 2014 the %oard was composed of seven 2.
A majority of the board should independent non-executive directors and one executive director be independent of the manager.
The %oard is therefore independent of the Companys executive management.
All the directors are wholly independent of the Companys various investment managers.
In the opinion of the %oard, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement see also section 1 above.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 33 Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The %oard 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular 1ew directors stand for election by the shareholders at the annual general meeting of the Company that follows their appointment.
1omination for re-election should not be Thereafter all directors stand for re-election at least every three assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and years, as required by the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors who have served for more than nine years stand for re-election annually.
There are currently two directors with service{of{more than nine years: Mr H M Henderson, the Chairman, and Mr A Watson.
The %oard has reviewed Provision %.
7.1 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The %oard considers that the annual re-election of all the directors is inappropriate to the Company.
There are two main reasons for this view: a it appears to place excessive emphasis on the short term and insufficient emphasis on the need for an effective board to work together and to refresh its composition over time: and b there is some danger, because many small and nominee shareholders choose not to exercise their voting rights, that if all the directors seek re-election at once a minority of the shareholders could engineer the removal of the whole %oard for reasons injurious to the interests of the Companys investors as a whole.
Therefore the %oard considers it appropriate to continue to apply Provision %.
7.1 as if the Company were not a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index, a view which a number of prominent institutional investors have shared.
Every year the %oard reviews its composition and the composition of its two Committees.
The %oards Remuneration and 1omination Committee oversees this process.
Further details are given under section 7 on page 36.
34 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The %oard 4.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is 1ew directors are appointed for an initial term ending three years from the date of their first annual general meeting after disclosed in the annual report.
appointment and with the expectation that they will serve two three-year terms.
The continuation of directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally every three years by the %oard as a whole.
1one of the non-executive directors has a contract of service and a director may resign by notice in writing to the %oard at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The %oards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the %oard is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The %oard seeks to encompass past and current experience of various areas that is relevant to the Companys objective and operations, the most important skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
Specialist agents are used to assist with recruitment.
While the roles and contributions of longer serving directors are subject to rigorous review, the %oard is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and that the shareholders benefit from having directors with a longer perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savings market.
Therefore there is no absolute limit to the period for which a director may serve.
There should be full disclosure of information about the Details of the directors are set out on pages 26 and 27.
They demonstrate a broad range of investment, professional and board.
commercial expertise and experience, gained overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
The %oard considers that it has achieved this aim.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, details of each director are set out on pages 26 and 27. experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
Board Diversity The Company welcomes the objectives of the Davies Report to improve the performance of corporate boards by encouraging the appointment of the best people from a range of differing perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the benefits of diversity on the board, including gender, and takes this into account in its board appointments.
The Company is committed to ensuring that its director search processes actively seek both men and women with the right qualifications so that appointments can be made, on the basis of merit, against objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
To this end the %oard will continue to dedicate time to consider diversity during the director search process.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 35 Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The %oard 7.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous The %oard has established a process to evaluate its performance on an annual basis.
This process is based on open discussion and annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its seeks to assess the strengths and weaknesses of the %oard and committees and individual directors.
The Chairman leads on applying the conclusions of the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews with each director his or her individual performance, contribution and commitment to the Company.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
In addition, in consideration of Provision %.
6.2 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years, the %oard concluded that, regardless of the size of the company, periodic external evaluation should add value to the process.
Accordingly, in July 2013, the %oard appointed %oardAlpha Limited to carry out an evaluation programme.
The %oard reviewed the report submitted to it and the Chairman has led on implementing those changes recommended by the report that the %oard considered should be made.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
%oardAlpha Limited does not have any other connection with the Company.
Director remuneration should reect their duties, The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54 details the process for determining the directors remuneration and sets out responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The %oards Remuneration and 1omination Committee oversees 9.
The independent directors should take the lead in the the recruitment process, which includes the use of a firm of appointment of new directors and the process should be non-executive director recruitment consultants.
However, all the disclosed in the annual report.
independent non-executive directors are asked to contribute and to consider serving on the sub-committee appointed to draw up the shortlist of candidates.
1otwithstanding this, the Chairman would not expect to be involved in the selection of his successor.
Directors newly appointed to the %oard are provided with an 10.
Directors should be oered relevant training and introductory programme covering the Companys strategy, policies induction.
and operations, including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars, conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
A log of directors training is maintained and reviewed each year by the Audit Committee.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys executive team and AIFM and of the Company Secretary, through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the %oard for ensuring that %oard procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
This principle does not apply to the Company, which is a long 11.
The chairman and the board should be brought into established investment trust company.
the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
36 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles %oard meetings and the relationship with the manager 12.
%oards and managers should operate in a supportive, Typically, the %oard meets approximately ten times each year.
The Chief Executive 2fficer who is himself a director, other co-operative and open environment.
representatives of the Companys executive team and the AIFM and a representative of the Company Secretary expect to be present at all meetings.
The %oard devotes two full days each year to meetings with the Companys investment managers and each investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the %oard and a supportive and co-operative relationship with the executive team and with the Companys investment managers, advisors and support staff.
The primary focus at regular board meetings should The Chief Executive 2fficer and the AIFM monitor investment performance and all associated matters.
The CE2 reports to each be a review of investment performance and associated %oard meeting, at which investment performance, asset allocation, matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing gearing, marketing and investor relations are usually key investor relations, peer group information and industry agenda items.
%oards should give sucient attention to overall The %oard is responsible for determining the strategic direction of the Company and for promoting its success.
its meetings each year is devoted entirely to reviewing overall strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
The %oards Remuneration and 1omination Committee reviews 15.
The board should regularly review both the performance the performance of and the contractual arrangements with the of, and contractual arrangements with, the manager or Chief Executive 2fficer.
The Chief Executive 2fficer is responsible executives of a self-managed company.
to the %oard for reviewing the performance and the contractual arrangements of his staff.
The Chief Executive 2fficer leads on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of reference, which are approved by the %oard and the AIFM.
The board should agree policies with the manager The Company manages its own operations through the %oard and that of its AIFM, as set out on page 39.
Each investment manager covering key operational issues.
runs a discrete investment portfolio within the terms of the mandate given to them in an investment management contract.
Further details are given on page 39.
Shares are held by the Companys custodian depositary.
The Chief Executive 2fficer and his team monitor the share price 17.
%oards should monitor the level of the share price and the discount premium to net asset value on a daily basis and discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take he reports to every %oard meeting.
The %oard has a share buy-back programme that seeks to add to the net asset value per share and achieve a sustainable discount of{not more than 10%.
In addition, shares may be issued at a premium to 1A9, where this is in shareholders interests.
The Chief Executive 2fficer and the AIFM are responsible for 18.
The board should monitor and evaluate other service monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Companys providers.
The %oards Audit Committee oversees this process together with the WIS Risk Committee.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 37 Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles Shareholder communications 19.
The board should regularly monitor the shareholder The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective communication with the Companys shareholders.
He works prole of the company and put in place a system for closely with the Chief Executive 2fficer and there is regular canvassing shareholder views and for communicating liaison with the Companys stockbroker.
There is a process in the boards views to shareholders.
place for analysing and monitoring the shareholder register and a programme for meeting or speaking with the institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
In addition to the Chief Executive 2fficer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expects to be available to meet the larger shareholders.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with the individual shareholders.
The 1otice of Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive 2fficer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration and 1omination Committee all expect to be present at the Annual General Meeting and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive 2fficer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 90.
While the Chief Executive 2fficer and his team together with the 20.
The board should normally take responsibility for, AIFM expect to lead on preparing and effecting communications and have a direct involvement in, the content of with investors, all major corporate issues are put to the %oard or, if communications regarding major corporate issues time is of the essence, to{a Committee thereof.
even{if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The board should ensure that shareholders are provided The %oard places importance on effective communication with investors and approves a marketing programme and budget each with sucient information for them to understand year to enable this to be achieved.
Copies of the Annual Report the risk: reward balance to which they are exposed by and the Half Year Report are circulated to shareholders, to those holding the shares.
who hold shares through the subsidiary companys products and, where possible, to investors through other providers products and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are published online.
In addition, the Company publishes a factsheet monthly and its net asset value per share daily.
All this information is readily accessible on the Companys website www.
The Company belongs to the Association of Investment Companies which publishes information to increase investors understanding.
38 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Board In addition to his responsibilities for the overall management The %oard is collectively responsible for the success of of the Company, the Chief Executive 2fficer manages the Company.
Its role is to provide leadership within a the Direct Holdings portfolio.
A maximum of 10% of the framework of prudent and effective controls that enable Companys gross assets at the time of purchase may be risk to be assessed and managed.
The %oard sets the invested in this portfolio and there are restrictions on the Companys strategic aims subject to the Companys Articles number, size and type of investments that may be made.
of Association and to such approval of the shareholders in general meeting as may be required from time to time and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors ensures that the necessary resources are in place to enable are provided, in a timely manner, with management, the Companys objectives to be met.
regulatory and financial information that is clear, accurate and relevant, whether from the Chief Executive 2fficer The %oard has typically met approximately ten times a year or otherwise.
and deals with the most important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full monitoring of investment strategy, the review of investment %oard have been defined.
There is an agreed procedure performance and the extent to which borrowings may for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take be used.
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Chief Executive 2fficer is responsible to the %oard and the AIFM for the overall management of the Company Board Committees including investment performance, business development, The %oard has established an Audit Committee and a shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust industry Remuneration and 1omination Committee.
The membership matters, administration and unquoted investments.
The of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and duties of the Chief Executive 2fficer include leading on 1omination Committee is set out on pages 26 and 27.
The investment strategy and asset allocation, on the selection roles and responsibilities of the Committees are described in and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 42 and 43 and of reference and on the use of derivatives.
The %oard, in in{the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54. conjunction with the AIFM, sets limits on matters such as asset allocation, gearing and investment in derivatives, Meetings of the Board and its Committees within which the Chief Executive 2fficer may operate at The number of formal meetings during the year of the his discretion.
%oard and its Committees, and the attendance of the individual directors at those meetings, is shown in the table The Chief Executive 2fficer reports to each meeting of the that follows.
His report includes confirmation that the %oards Remuneration and investment limits and restrictions and those which govern Audit Nomination the Companys tax status as an investment trust, have been Board Committee Committee adhered to.
1umber of meetings 10 3 2 H M Henderson 10 2 2 The individual investment managers are each appointed to A L C %ell 10 3 2 manage a discrete portfolio in accordance with guidelines J E % %evan 9 which limit, for example, the markets in which they can R W %oyle 10 3 invest, the size of each investment and the amount of cash M C Claydon 10 3 2 that may be held in their portfolio in normal circumstances.
S E G A 1eubert 9 They are not allowed to invest in unquoted securities, to R J 2ldfield 9 2 borrow against the security of the portfolio, to sell stocks short or to use derivatives.
The investment managers A Watson 9 3 take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual 1ot a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all or part of investments and are responsible for effecting those the meetings.
decisions on the best available terms.
The Company and the AIFM receive monthly confirmation from each of the All the directors attended the Annual General Meeting in investment managers that they have carried out their duties April 2014 and the %oards Away Day in May 2014. in accordance with the terms of their investment mandates.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 39 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors remuneration As described elsewhere, the management of Witans The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors portfolio is outsourced to a number of third party investment Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54. managers around the world.
There are currently 11 such investment managers as well as the Direct Holdings portfolio Accountability and audit which is managed by the Chief Executive 2fficer.
The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 55.
The Chief Executive 2fficer has responsibility under delegation from the %oard and the AIFM for a number of The report of the independent auditor is set out on pages 58 aspects of the management of the portfolio, including asset to 61. allocation, gearing and investment in derivatives.
The %oard has set guidelines in respect of each of these aspects within The %oard has delegated contractually to external which he may operate.
The Chief Executive 2fficer reports to agents, including the various investment managers, the the %oard regularly on each of these areas, as well as on the management of the investment portfolio, global custody overall performance of the Company and other matters which includes the safeguarding of the assets, the of significance.
investment administration, management and financial accounting, company secretarial and certain other The in-house executive management team of Witan and WIS administrative requirements and the registration services.
is responsible for managing and controlling the relationships Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper with the third party managers.
The management team consideration by the %oard of the quality and cost of the receives monthly reports on investment and compliance services offered, including the control systems in operation in matters from each manager.
During 2014, the investment so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The %oard managers were asked to provide detailed information on receives and considers regular reports from the investment their operational structures and systems.
The %oard also managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied receives each year from its investment managers reports on to{the %oard from its other contractors as required.
their internal controls: in most cases these include a report from the relevant companys auditors on the control policies Internal control and procedures in operation.
The %oard has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the The Chief Executive 2fficer makes regular reports to the Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, %oard on the performance of and activity within the Direct is subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was Holdings portfolio.
In addition, the portfolios performance is fully in place during the year under review and up to the date independently measured by WM Performance Services, along of this annual report.
The %oard remains responsible for the with those of the third party managers.
Companys system of internal control and has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the system, covering all The Companys subsidiary, WIS, is authorised and regulated the controls, including financial, operational and compliance by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide investment controls and risk management systems.
This review took into products and services and was appointed as the Companys account points raised during the year in the regular appraisal AIFM from July 2014.
The compliance structures required of specific areas of risk.
However, such a system is designed for these activities, including a compliance manual and a to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve compliance monitoring programme, have been duly put into the Companys business objectives and can only provide place.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in confidence any concerns about possible improprieties, In accordance with provisions C2 and C3 of the Corporate whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for Governance Code the %oard reviews the Companys business appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises risks at least once a year.
These are analysed and recorded in only seven people including the Chief Executive 2fficer, a risk map.
The Company receives from its main contractors who are well known to and have frequent formal and informal formal reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the contact with the members of the %oard.
areas of risk and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
40 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Company does not have an internal audit function.
The %oard encourages the Companys appointed investment Through WIS, the AIFM, it delegates to third parties the managers to engage with companies and to vote shares, management of its investments and most of its other in the best long-term interest of Witan shareholders but operations and employs only a small staff.
The investment in accordance with their own investment philosophies.
managers and certain other key contractors are subject to Where applicable, it monitors the policies of the investment external regulation and most have compliance and internal managers in respect of the UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere audit functions of their own.
The Companys investments in the world it can be more difficult to vote shares as each are held on its behalf by a global custodian appointed by the country has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder depositary.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and notification, voting restrictions, registration conditions and administrators is responsible for investment administration, share blocking, including, for example, dealing constraints.
for maintaining accounting records and for preparing Therefore, whilst the Companys investment managers are financial accounts, management accounts and other apprised of the Companys approach to the stewardship of its management information.
Their work is reviewed by an assets and the importance of sound corporate governance, independent accountant who also carries out some of the they use their discretion according to their knowledge of work that an internal audit function would cover.
In addition, the relevant circumstances.
The investment managers the %oard receives from the investment administrator an report their compliance with the UK Stewardship Code, or annual report on its internal controls, including a report equivalent legislation, to the Audit Committee each year.
from its auditor on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The investment performance of the investment In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys managers, both individually and collectively, is measured for executive management maintains regular touch with the Witan by a company that is independent of all the investment management of the investee holdings and engages when managers.
The corporate Company Secretary is a company issues arise that are controversial or potentially prejudicial with well-established experience in servicing investment to the interests of Witans shareholders.
An annual report is trusts.
provided to the Audit Committee in compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
The appointment of these and other professional contractors provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of Approval internal controls that is balanced and robust.
The %oard This report was approved by the %oard of directors on and the AIFM will continue to monitor its system of internal 10{March 2015 and is signed on its behalf by: control in order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually H M Henderson whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Chairman Stewardship and the exercise of voting powers 10 March 2015 It is the %oards view that, in order to achieve long-term success, companies need to maintain high standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is invested to comply with best practice in corporate governance matters, or to provide adequate explanation of any areas in which they fail to comply, whilst recognising that a different approach may be justified in special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, current best practice in corporate governance matters is set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 41
