231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 30 Governance Corporate Governance This Statement forms part of the Report of the Directors.
The Board confirms that, with the exception of the below, it has in all respects met its obligations under the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the period of this report: Director Tenure Provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code : The role of the Chief Executive Provision A.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code : Executive Directors Remuneration Provisions D. 2.1, D. 2.2, D. 2.3 and D. 2.4 of the UK Corporate Governance Code : and The need for an internal audit Provision C. 3.6 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
For reasons set out in the AIC Guide and in the preamble to the AIC Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment trust.
Therefore, with the exception of Director tenure, which is addressed further below and the need for an internal audit function which is addressed further on page 38, the Company has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: - The Board - Board Meetings and relations with OrbiMed and Frostrow - Shareholder Communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Sir Martin Smith, continues to be independent of OrbiMed.
There is a clear division independent.
of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, OrbiMed, Frostrow and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
A majority of the Board The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, each of whom with the exception of should be independent of the Samuel D. Isaly is independent of OrbiMed.
No other member of the Board is a Director of another manager.
investment company managed by OrbiMed, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, OrbiMed or any of its service providers.
Directors should be All Directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
submitted for re-election at The individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the regular intervals.
Nomination remaining members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that for re-election should not be shareholders vote in favour of their re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
The Board should have a The Nominations Committee considers the structure of the Board and recognises the need for policy on tenure, which is progressive refreshing of the Board.
disclosed in the annual report.
The Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority.
It does not consider that a Directors tenure necessarily reduces his ability to act independently and, following formal performance evaluations, believes that each of those Directors is independent in character and judgment and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect their 30 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 31 Governance Corporate Governance The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement judgment.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
In view of its nonexecutive nature, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term, although new Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will serve for a minimum period of three years subject to shareholder approval.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of engagement which are available for inspection on request at the office of Frostrow and at the Annual General Meeting.
There should be full The Directors biographical details, set out on pages 23 and 24 demonstrate the wide range of disclosure of information skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 36.
The Audit Committee membership comprises those Directors considered by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not chair it.
His membership of the Audit Committee is considered appropriate given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the financial services industry.
Both the Management Engagement & Remuneration and Nominations Committees are comprised of those Directors considered by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman of the Company acts as Chairman of the former, in light of the remit of the Committee, and Jo Dixon, as the Senior Independent Director, acts as Chairman of the latter.
The Board should aim to The Nominations Committee considers annually the skills possessed by the Board and identifies have a balance of skills, any skill shortages to be filled by new Directors.
experience, length of service When considering new appointments, the Board reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to and knowledge of the add persons with complementary skills or who possess the skills and experience which fill any gaps company.
in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in their biographies set out on pages 23 and 24.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Company will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
The Board should During the year the performance of the Board, its committees and individual Directors including undertake a formal and each Directors independence was evaluated through a formal assessment process led by the Senior Independent Director.
This involved the circulation of a Board effectiveness checklist, tailored rigorous annual evaluation of to suit the nature of the Company, followed by discussions between the Senior Independent its own performance and that Director and each of the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was also evaluated by the of its committees and Senior Independent Director.
The review concluded that the Board was working well.
During 2012 an independent review of the Board was undertaken, the results of which were considered by the Board.
The Board has agreed that an independent review of the Board will be commissioned regularly and a further review will be commissioned in 2015.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
31 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 32 Governance Corporate Governance The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 8.
Director remuneration The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee periodically reviews the fees paid to should reflect their duties, the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the Companys peer group and the responsibilities and the value investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment and responsibility of their time spent.
Details on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy Report and Directors Remuneration Implementation Report on pages 40 to 42 and in note 4 on page 52.
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors fees.
The Chairman takes no part in discussions regarding his own remuneration.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
The Independent Directors The Nominations Committee comprises those Directors considered by the Board to be independent.
should take the lead in the Subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Committee are entitled to vote on appointment of new Directors candidates for the appointment of new Directors and on the recommendation for shareholders and the process should be approval the Directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors should be New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers offered relevant training and the Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information induction.
on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary through its appointed representative which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to Board should be brought into the Company.
the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and relations with OrbiMed and Frostrow 12.
Boards and managers The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of OrbiMed and Frostrow is in should operate in a attendance at each Board meeting.
The Chairman encourages open debate to foster a supportive supportive, and co-operative approach for all participants.
32 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 33 Governance Corporate Governance Board Meetings and relations with OrbiMed and Frostrow continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 13.
The primary focus at The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This regular board meetings should includes establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, the permitted types or be a review of investment categories of investments, the markets in which transactions may be undertaken, the amount or performance and associated proportion of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment or in any one matters, such as gearing, asset investment, and the Companys share issuance and share buy back policies.
allocation, marketing investor The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, relations, peer group revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance information and industry comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder issues.
communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
The Audit and Management Engagement & Remuneration Committees respectively, review the Companys risk matrix and the performance and cost of the Companys third party service providers.
Boards should give The Board is responsible for strategy and has established an annual programme of agenda items sufficient attention to overall under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at each meeting.
The Board should The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year.
It reviews regularly review both the annually the performance of OrbiMed and Frostrow.
The Committee considers the quality, cost performance of, and and remuneration method including the performance fee of the service provided by OrbiMed contractual arrangements with, and Frostrow against their contractual obligations and the Board receives regular reports on the investment manager and compliance with the Investment Restrictions which it has set.
It also considers the performance the manager or executives of analysis provided by OrbiMed and Frostrow.
The Audit Committee reviews the compliance and control systems of both OrbiMed and Frostrow in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company and the Board undertakes periodic reviews of the arrangements with and the services provided by the Custodian, to ensure that the safeguarding of the Companys assets and security of the shareholders investment is being maintained.
The Board should agree The Investment Management Agreement between the Company and OrbiMed sets out the limits policies with the investment of OrbiMeds authority, beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed manager and the manager detailed investment guidelines with OrbiMed, which are considered at each Board meeting.
covering key operational A representative from OrbiMed and Frostrow attends each meeting of the Board to address issues.
questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which OrbiMed is required to refer to the Board.
The Board has delegated discretion to OrbiMed to exercise voting powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board has reviewed OrbiMeds Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and which is published on OrbiMeds website: www.
co. uk Reports on commissions paid by OrbiMed are submitted to the Board regularly.
33 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 34 Governance Corporate Governance Board Meetings and relations with OrbiMed and Frostrow continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 17.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares level of the share price in the market and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
discount or premium if any The Board considers the discount or premium to net asset value of the Companys share price and, if desirable, take action to at each Board meeting.
The Board has implemented a discount control mechanism intended to reduce it.
establish a target level of no more than a 6% discount of share price to the diluted net asset value per share.
See page 7 for further information.
At each meeting the Board reviews reports from both OrbiMed and Frostrow on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It also considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on share buybacks.
The Board should monitor The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee reviews, at least annually, the and evaluate other service performance of all the Companys third party service providers, including the level and structure providers.
of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010.
Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors regularly monitor the at each Board meeting.
Representatives of OrbiMed and Frostrow regularly meet with shareholder profile of the institutional shareholders and private client asset managers to discuss strategy and to company and put in place a understand their issues and concerns and, if applicable, to discuss corporate governance system for canvassing issues.
The results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
shareholder views and for Regular reports from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board on investor sentiment communicating the Boards and industry issues.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Offices of Frostrow.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of OrbiMed.
OrbiMed will make a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
34 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 35 Governance Corporate Governance Shareholder Communications continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 20.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by the take responsibility for, and Board taking into account representations from OrbiMed, Frostrow, the Auditor, legal advisers have a direct involvement in, and the Corporate Stockbroker.
the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims to that shareholders are provided provide them with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy and with sufficient information for activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of informative Annual them to understand the and Half Year reports and Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented by the daily risk reward balance to which publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys they are exposed by holding shares.
The annual report provides information on OrbiMeds investment performance, portfolio risk and operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Risk Management on pages 8 to 10 and in note 18 beginning on page 59.
The Investment Portfolio is listed on pages 11 and 12.
com, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys financial reports and announcements.
35 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 36 Governance Corporate Governance The Audit Committee meets representatives of the Manager Committees of the Board and Investment Manager and their Compliance Officers who During the year the Board delegated certain responsibilities and report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with functions to committees.
Copies of the full terms of reference, the regulatory environment in which the Company, Manager which clearly define the responsibilities of each Committee, can and Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external be obtained from the Company Secretary, will be available for Auditor also attend meetings of this Committee at its request inspection at the Annual General Meeting, and can be found at and report on their work procedures and their findings in the Companys website at www.
The relation to the Companys statutory audit.
They also have the membership of the Companys committees comprises those opportunity to meet with the Committee without Directors considered independent by the Board.
The representatives of the Manager or the Investment Manager Nominations and Audit Committees are chaired by Jo Dixon, being present.
The Audit Committee reviews the need for nonthe Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee by audit services to be provided by the Auditor and authorises the Chairman of the Company, Sir Martin Smith.
such on a case by case basis, having consideration to the cost The table on page 24 details the number of Board and effectiveness of the services and the independence and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the objectivity of the Auditor.
Non-audit fees of 9,000 were paid year there were four Board meetings, two Audit Committee to Ernst & Young LLP during the year for agreed upon meetings, one meeting of the Nominations Committee and procedures in relation to the Companys performance fee one meeting of the Management Engagement & review and other audit related assurances services.
during the year, fees totalling 19,000 were earned in relation to withholding tax reclaim services.
The Board has concluded, Nominations Committee on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, that the The Nominations Committee is responsible for the Board Auditor continued to be independent.
appraisal process and for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
Where Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy appropriate, each Director is invited to submit nominations The Board has adopted a zero tolerance approach to instances and external advisers may be used to identify potential of bribery and corruption.
Accordingly it expressly prohibits candidates.
any Director or associated persons when acting on behalf of the Company, from accepting, soliciting, paying, offering or Management Engagement & Remuneration promising to pay or authorise any payment, public or private in Committee the UK or abroad to secure any improper benefit for The level of Directors fees is reviewed on a regular basis themselves or for the Company.
relative to other comparable investment companies and in the The Board applies the same Standards to its service providers light of Directors responsibilities.
Neither the Chairman nor in their activities for the Company.
individual Directors participate in discussions involving personal remuneration.
Details of the fees paid to the A copy of the Companys Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy Directors in the year under review are detailed in the Directors can be found on its website at www.
The Remuneration Report and the Directors Remuneration Policy policy is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
Relations with Shareholders This committee also reviews the terms of engagement of the The Board reviews the shareholder register at each Board Investment Manager, the Manager and the Companys other meeting.
The Company has regular contact with its service providers.
institutional shareholders particularly through the Manager.
The Board supports the principle that the Annual General Audit Committee Meeting be used to communicate with private investors.
The The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is full Board attends the Annual General Meeting under the responsible for the review of the half-year and annual financial Chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
Details of proxy statements, the nature and scope of the external audit and the votes received in respect of each resolution are made available findings therefrom and the terms of appointment of the to shareholders at the meeting and are also published on the Auditor, including their remuneration and the provision of any Companys website at www.
Representatives non-audit services by them.
from the Investment Manager attend the Annual General 36 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 37 Governance Corporate Governance Meeting and give a presentation on investment matters to Nominee Share Code those present.
The Company has adopted a nominee share Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the code which is set out below.
Company undertakes: The Board receives marketing and public relations reports to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of from the Frostrow to whom the marketing function has been shareholder communications, so long as an indication of delegated.
The Board reviews and considers the marketing quantities has been provided in advance: plans of the Manager on a regular basis.
to allow investors holding shares through a nominee The annual and half-year financial reports, the interim company to attend general meetings, provided the correct management statements and a monthly fact sheet are authority from the nominee company is available: and available to all shareholders.
The Board considers the format that investors in the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme or ISA of the annual and half-year financial reports so as to ensure are automatically sent shareholder communications, they are useful to all shareholders and others taking an interest including details of general meetings, together with a form in the Company.
In accordance with best practice, the annual of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority to report, including the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, is attend.
sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary issues.
authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys general meetings.
Exercise of Voting Powers The Board has delegated authority to OrbiMed to vote the shares owned by the Company that are held on its behalf by its By order of the Board custodian, Goldman Sachs.
The Board has instructed that OrbiMed submit votes for such shares wherever possible.
This accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary Frostrow Capital LLP focus on financial returns.
OrbiMed may refer to the Board on Company Secretary any matters of a contentious nature.
The Company does not 6 June 2014 retain voting rights on any shares that are subject to rehypothecation in connection with the loan facility provided by Goldman Sachs.
37 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
