231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 38 Governance Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 The Committee, which comprises those Directors considered November 2013 to be independent by the Board, met twice during the year.
Review of the Committees terms of reference Attendance by each Director is shown in the table on page 23. Review of the auditors plan for the 2013 2014 audit Review of risks, internal control and compliance Responsibilities Review of the Companys anti bribery and corruption policy The Committees main responsibilities during the year were: and the measures put in place by the Companys service 1.
To review the Companys half-year and annual financial providers statements.
In particular, the Committee considered Review of the Companys half-year results whether the annual financial statements are fair, balanced Approval of the half-year report and understandable, allowing shareholders to more easily Consideration of the implications of the 2012 UK Corporate assess the Companys strategy, investment policy, business Governance Code and the required changes to the model and financial performance.
Companys annual report and financial statements 2.
To review the risk management and internal control Financial Statements processes of the Company and its key service providers.
As The financial statements, and the annual report as a whole, are part of this review the Committee again reviewed the the responsibility of the Board.
The Directors Responsibility appropriateness of the Companys anti-bribery and Statement is contained on page 29.
The Board looks to the corruption policy.
Audit Committee to advise them in relation to the financial 3.
To recommend the appointment of an external auditor statements both as regards their form and content, issues and agreeing the scope of its work and its remuneration, which might arise and on any specific areas requiring reviewing its independence and the effectiveness of the judgment.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by the During the year the Committee considered key accounting auditors.
The Audit Committee has considered the extent issues, matters and judgments in relation to the Companys and nature of non-audit work performed by the auditor and financial statements and disclosures relating to: is satisfied that this did not impinge on their independence and is a cost effective way for the Company to operate.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
Since The Committee approached and dealt with this area of risk by: the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third Ensuring that all investment holdings and cash deposit parties and has no employees, the Committee has balances have been agreed to an independent confirmation determined there is no requirement for such a function.
from the custodian or relevant bank: The Committees terms of reference are available for review on reviewing and amending, where necessary, the Companys the Companys website at www.
register of key risks in light of changes to the investment portfolio and the investment environment: and Meetings and Business gaining an overall understanding of the performance of the The following matters were dealt with at its meetings: investment portfolio both in capital and revenue terms May 2013 through comparison to the benchmark.
Review of the Committees terms of reference Review of the Companys results Approval of the annual report and financial statements Review of risk management, internal controls and compliance Review of a report on Frostrows internal control framework 38 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 39 Governance Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Taxation The Committee is satisfied with the auditors independence and The Committee approached and dealt with the area of risk, the effectiveness of the audit process, together with the degree surrounding compliance with section 1158 of the Corporation of diligence and professional scepticism brought to bear.
Tax Act 2010, by: Appointment of New Auditor seeking confirmation from the Manager that the Company The Companys current Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP have been meets the eligibility conditions as outlined in section 1158: in office since the Companys inception, during which time no by obtaining written confirmation from HMRC, evidencing audit tender has taken place.
Whilst the audit partner has the approval of the Company as an investment trust under changed periodically in accordance with professional and the regime: regulatory standards to protect independence and objectivity, understanding the risks and consequences if the Company in accordance with best practice the Board felt it was breaches this approval in future years: and appropriate to undertake a formal audit tender.
reviewing the Companys register of key risks relating to tax The tender process was held in April 2014, following which, the matters.
Directors are proposing to appoint  as Auditor to the Company commencing with the 2014 15 External auditor financial year.
As resigning Auditor Ernst & Young LLP will Meetings: provide the Company with a Statement of Circumstances This year the nature and scope of the audit together with confirming that it will resign as Auditor to the Company.
A Ernst & Young LLPs audit plan were considered by the copy of the Statement of Circumstances will be available upon Committee on 6 November 2013 without the Auditor being request from the Company Secretary.
Ernst & Young LLP will resign with effect from the conclusion of As Chairman of the Committee, I met with Ernst & Young LLP the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 July 2014. and Frostrow on 22 May 2014 to discuss the outcome of the Having satisfied themselves of the appropriateness of the audit and the draft 2014 annual report and accounts.
The appointment of  LLP following the Committee then met Ernst & Young LLP on 28 May 2014 to tender process and in accordance with the Companies Act review the outcome of the audit and to discuss the limited 2006, shareholder approval concerning the appointment of a issues that arose.
new Auditor and the authority to fix their remuneration will be Given the changes to narrative reporting which are sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
incorporated in the annual report for the first time, we have Ernst & Young LLP carried out the audit for the year ended also discussed the presentation of the annual report with the 31 March 2014 and were considered to be independent by the auditor and sought their perspective.
The Directors wish to record their thanks for the audit services provided by Ernst & Young LLP to the Company since Independence and Effectiveness: its inception, in particular their professionalism and the quality In order to fulfil the Committees responsibility regarding the of their work was appreciated.
independence of the Auditor, we reviewed: Full details of the resolution appointing the senior audit personnel in the audit plan for the year,  LLP as Auditor can be found within the auditors arrangements concerning any conflicts of interest, the Notice of Meeting on page 72 and also in the Explanatory the extent of any non-audit services, and Notes to the Resolutions to be proposed at the Annual the statement by the Auditor that they remain independent General Meeting on page 77. within the meaning of the regulations and their professional standards.
auditor independence Jo Dixon In order to consider the effectiveness of the audit process, we Chairman of the Audit Committee reviewed: 6 June 2014 the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan, the report arising from the audit itself, and feedback from Frostrow on the conduct of the audit.
39 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
