Audit Committee report The Audit Committees role is to assist theBoard in relation to financial reporting.
Chairmans introduction The Audit Committee was established by a resolution of the Board dated 4 June 2014, atwhich meeting terms of reference were considered and adopted.
The Board further resolved to appoint Sherry Coutu and Robin Klein tothe Committee under my Chairmanship with Stephen Daintith attending as an observer for DMGT.
Under its terms of reference, theCommittee is required to meet at least three times in each year atappropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle.
The 2014 financial year The 2014 financial year has seen a number of regulatory changes, has seen a number of which have reinforced the Audit Committees role to assist the Boardtodischarge its duty to ensure that the Annual Report, regulatory changes, which thefirstasa public company, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced have reinforced the Audit andunderstandable.
In this report, I explain how the Committee hasdischarged itsresponsibilities, with specific reference to the Committees role.
requirement of the UKCorporate Governance Code toaddress significant reporting issues for the financial statements andto explainhow the Committee assessed external audit effectiveness andsafeguards in relation totheprovision by theauditorof non-auditservices.
Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman, Audit Committee 32 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Composition On 20 November 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved The Audit Committee is chaired by Duncan Tatton-Brown and its other for consideration by the Board the financial results for the year ended members are Robin Klein and Sherry Coutu.
As part of that review process, the members as an observer appointed by DMGT.
The Governance Code recommends ofthe Committee reviewed the Annual Report, the adequacy of the that all members of the Audit Committee are Non-Executive Directors, disclosure with respect to going concern and whether the Annual Report independent in character and judgement and free from any relationship taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
or circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, orappear to, Thisadditional review by the Audit Committee, supplemented by affect their judgement and that one such member has recent and relevant advice received from external advisers during the drafting process, financial experience.
The Board considers that, byvirtue of his current assisted the Board in determining that the report is fair, balanced and former Executive and Non-Executive roles, details of which are andunderstandable at the time that itisapproved.
The Committee set out on page 27, Duncan Tatton-Brown has recent and relevant considered the appropriateness of preparing the accounts on a going financial experience and the Company complies with the requirements concern basis, including consideration of forecast plans and supporting of the Governance Code in this respect.
The Company further considers assumptions and concluded that theCompanys financial position that the attendance of an observer at Committee meetings will not wassuch that it continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prejudice the independence or proper functioning of the Committee.
prepared on a going concern basis.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend meetings Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements of the Audit Committee by invitation, as do Deloitte LLP and other The Committee, together with Management and the Groups external members of Management or the Board as appropriate.
auditor, considered the following significant matters in relation to the financial statements and how these were addressed.
Roles and responsibilities The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities Revenue recognition with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls, The Groups revenue recognition is limited in complexity.
The majority including reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual of revenue relates to recurring subscriptions which are predictable and interim financial statements, reviewing and monitoring the extent in nature and invoiced monthly.
However, the Group operates a large of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor, advising volume of agreements, with varying terms, which may include differences onthe appointment of the external auditor, overseeing the Groups in the timing of the billing of subscription fees and the actual subscription relationship with its external auditor, reviewing the effectiveness of the period.
There is a risk that revenues may not be recorded in the correct external audit process and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups accounting period.
Management has discussed the composition and internal controls.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the recognition principles of each revenue stream and the controls the annual report and accounts and the half-yearly reports remains thereon with the Committee during the year.
The Committee is satisfied with the Board.
The Audit Committee will give due consideration that no issues have been identified or arisen.
Furthermore, revenue tolaws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Corporate recognition was an area of focus for the Groups external auditor during Governance Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The external auditor has reviewed the Groups revenue streams on amonth-by-month basis for anomalies and has performed The Audit Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and detailed testing over the Groups revenue.
Accounts and advises the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information Group reorganisation and IPO necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, During the year the Group was admitted to trading on the London Stock business model and strategy.
Exchange through an Initial Public Offering IPO.
As detailed inNote 20 to the financial statements, the Group was subject to arestructuring prior The full terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate to the IPO which resulted in the insertion of ZooplaProperty Group Plc website at www.
as the new parent company of the Group.
The accounting for the transaction has involved the use of merger accounting and the creation Activities of the Audit Committee of a non-distributable merger reserve inthe new parent company.
Following Admission, the Audit Committee met on 20 October 2014 Theaccounting treatment has been reviewed and agreed by the Groups todiscuss the progress of the audit plan and risk management procedures.
In order toprovide meaningful and comparable Prior to listing, an Audit Committee of the Groups previous parent company, information to shareholders, certain numbers in the financial statements ZPG Limited, met.
In November 2013, thisCommittee discussed the full for the year ended 30September 2013 have been disclosed as if the year results for 2013 and in February 2014 reviewed the Companys risk Group restructuring had occurred at the beginning of the prior period.
In May 2014, the Committee discussed half year results, risk Both the Committee and the external auditor are comfortable that this and compliance.
Prior to the IPO, all of these meetings were chaired disclosure provides the most relevant and understandable information by Stephen Daintith.
Finally, 5.6 million of expenses relating directly to the Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 33 Audit Committee report continued Significant issues considered in relation to the financial Independence safeguards statements continued In accordance with best ethical standards, externalauditors are required Group reorganisation and IPO continued to adhere to a rotation policy whereby the audit engagement partner IPO have been identified by Management as exceptional and disclosed isrotated after five years.
The current audit engagement partner was separately.
The Committee is satisfied that these costs fall outside the appointed in 2012 but, due to his previous role as the audit engagement recurring operations of the business and therefore their disclosure as partner for certain of the Companys significant subsidiaries, can serve exceptional is considered reasonable.
as the audit engagement partner for only two years after the Group became listed.
The external auditoris also required periodically to assess Share-based payments whether, in its professional opinion, it is independent and those views The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes are shared withthe Audit Committee.
including both employee share options and warrants issued to certain members.
The valuation methods and the related assumptions for The Committee notes that FTSE 250 companies should put the audit these schemes are subject to Management judgement.
There is a outto tender at least every 10 years.
To avoid significant disruption the riskthat these instruments are not valued correctly and therefore an Financial Reporting Council has provided details of transitional arrangements incorrect charge is recognised in the financial statements.
The Groups which would mean that as Deloitte became the auditor after 2000 we external auditor has independently audited the valuation models used would not need to undertake a tender review until 2020. by Management and the assumptions used in calculating the Groups The Committee has authority to take independent advice as it deems IFRS 2 charge.
As a result of Admission, the Group announced a appropriate in order to resolve issues on auditor independence.
number of new incentive schemes which will take effect in 2015.
Nosuch advice has been required to date.
Valuations for grants under these new schemes will be reviewed bytheGroups external auditor.
Independence assessment by the Audit Committee Based on the fact that the audit engagement partner rotation policy has Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit process been complied with, the Committee is satisfied that the independence The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external of the external auditor is not impaired.
Furthermore, the level of fees paid auditor and considers the re-appointment of the Companys auditor, for non-audit services does not jeopardise its independence.
Audit and Deloitte LLP, before making a recommendation to the Board to be put non-audit fees are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
As part of this responsibility, the Committee approved the audit plan for the year ended 30 September 2014 and reviewed The Audit Committee noted that the auditor had provided services the auditors findings and Management representation letters.
Prior to onthe IPO transaction that were paid by the previous parent company, recommending the appointment of Deloitte at the forthcoming AGM ZPG Limited.
The Committee believes sufficient and appropriate safeguards tothe Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the extended audit process, were in place for this work and the external auditor remained independent the performance of the auditor and its ongoing independence, taking throughout the period.
into consideration input from Management, responses to questions The Committee has assessed the performance and independence of from the Committee and the audit findings reported to the Committee.
the external auditor and recommended to the Board the re-appointment Based on this review, the Committee concluded that the external audit of Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2015. process had been run efficiently and that Deloitte has been effective inits role as external auditor.
Internal audit The Committee has recommended to the Board that it is not currently Approach to appointing the external auditor and how objectivity necessary to appoint an internal audit function but rather to focus on and independence are safeguarded relative to non-audit services specific areas with ad hoc reviews e. g. cyber security and review the As noted earlier in this report, the current Audit Committee was constituted need for an internal audit function on an ongoing basis.
The Committee on 4 June 2014 ahead of Admission.
In the run up to Admission, the based its decision on several factors including a relatively clear business Board implemented a number of governance measures.
The following model with a simple Group structure and a single country focus, an open Audit Committee policies remain to be developed: and accountable culture with clear authority limits and the assurance f a policy on the independence of the external auditor consistent with gained from reports from Management and reports provided by the the ethical standards published by the Audit Practices Board: and external auditor with regard to internal controls and risk management.
f a policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the provision ofnon-audit services.
It is the Boards intention to adopt policies covering both these topics during 2015.
34 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Internal control and risk management There have been no changes in the Companys internal control during The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal controls forthe the financial year under review that have materially affected, or are Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with the FRC reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys control over Internal Control: Guidance to Directors publication, it carries out such financial reporting.
areview at least annually, covering all material controls including financial, The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, is satisfied that an operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
effective system of internal controls and risk management is in place The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than which enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage key risks eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can and which accord with the guidance provided by the FRC Internal onlyprovide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Control: Guidance to Directors.
These processes have been in place misstatement or loss.
since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
Further details of risk management frameworks and The Group has operating policies and controls in place covering a range specific material risks and uncertainties facing the business can be of issues including financial reporting, capital expenditure, business found on pages 16 to 17. continuity and information technology and appropriate employee policies.
These policies are designed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of Whistleblowing financial reporting and govern the preparation of financial statements.
The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy, the Speak-Up Policy, The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal which encourages employees to report any malpractice or illegal acts controls and risk management and discharges or intends to discharge or omissions or matters of similar concern by other employees or former its duties in this area by: employees, contractors, suppliers or advisers using a prescribed reporting f holding regular Board meetings to consider the matters reserved procedure.
The policy facilitates the reporting of any ethical wrongdoing forits consideration: or malpractice or suspicion which may constitute ethical wrongdoing or malpractice.
Examples include bribery, corruption, fraud, dishonesty f receiving regular Management reports which provide an and illegal practices which may endanger employees or third parties.
assessment of key risks and controls: There have been no instances of whistleblowing during the year f scheduling annual Board reviews of strategy including reviews underreview.
ofthe material risks and uncertainties facing the business: Control environment f ensuring there is a clear organisational structure with defined The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral responsibilities and levels of authority: values and professionalism in all its activities.
The Group has policies f ensuring there are documented policies and procedures inplace for: inplace:and f anti-bribery: f scheduling regular Board reviews of financial budgets, forecasts f dealing with third parties: and and covenants with performance reported to the Board monthly.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Committee will, going forward: Accountability f review the risk register compiled and maintained by senior managers The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable within the Group and question and challenge where necessary: assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
The responsibilities of the Directors and external auditor are set out on f regularly review the system of financial and accounting controls: and pages 65 and 68.
As set out in the Directors report, the Directors f report to the Board on the risk and control culture within the Group.
consider the Companys business to be a going concern.
In respect of the Groups financial reporting, the Finance Department isresponsible for preparing the Group financial statements using a well-established consolidation process and ensuring that accounting policies are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Duncan Tatton-Brown Standards.
All financial information published by the Group is subject Chairman, Audit Committee to the approval of the Audit Committee.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
