Corporate governance statement Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012: Introduction The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance andmaintaininga sound framework forthecontrol and management of the Group.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 applies to financial years beginning on or after 1October 2012.
A copy of the Governance Code can be found at www.
This report, which incorporates reports from the Audit and Nomination Committees onpages 32to 37 together withtheStrategic report, the Directors remuneration report onpages 38 to 61 and the Directors report on pages 62 to 64, describes how the Company hasapplied the relevant principles of the 2012 Governance Code.
A new version of the Governance Code was published in September 2014 and applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The Company will therefore apply the principles of the new Code going forward.
The role of the Board f approval of any changes relating to the Groups capital structure and The Board consists of three independent Non-Executive Directors, material changes to the Groups management and control structure: fourNon-Executive Directors including the Non-Executive Chairman f approval of the financial statements, annual report and accounts, and two Executive Directors.
Biographies of all members of the Board material contracts and major projects: appear on pages 26 and 27. f approval of the dividend policy: The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of theCompany and for leading and controlling the Group and has f ensuring a sound system of internal control and risk management: overallauthority for the management and conduct of the Groups f approval of any major capital project: business, strategy and development.
The Board is also responsible forensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control f approval of communications with shareholders and the market: andrisk management including financial, operational and compliance f determining changes to structure, size and composition of the Board: controls and for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place and for the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and or f determining remuneration policy for the Directors and the Leadership management structure of the Group.
and Senior Management teams and approval of the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors: and The CEO and CFO sit on the Board and two levels of management sit below the Board: the Leadership Team and the Senior Management f approval of all major policies within the Group, including the share Team, each of which are led by the CEO.
The CEO and CFO therefore dealing, anti-bribery and health and safety policies.
act as a bridge between Management and the Board.
The Board All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company delegates to Management the day-to-day running of the business Secretary, who has responsibility for ensuring compliance with the within defined parameters.
Board meetings are scheduled to coincide Boards procedures.
All the Directors have the right to have their with key events in the corporate calendar and in future this will include opposition to, or concerns over, any Board decision noted in the the interim and final results and the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Board has adopted guidelines by which Directors may The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved take independent professional advice at the Companys expense foritsapproval and has delegated other specific responsibilities intheperformance of their duties.
This schedule sets out key aspects of the affairs The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met informally once ofthe Company which the Board does not delegate, including: without the Executives present in the period between the listing on f responsibility for the overall management of the Group: 23June 2014 and 30 September 2014 and will continue to hold suchmeetings periodically.
f approval of the Groups business strategy and objectives, budgetsand forecasts and any material changes to them: Board Committees f monitoring the delivery of the Groups business strategy and Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board has objectives and responsibility for any necessary corrective action: delegated to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees certain authorities.
There are written terms of reference for each f oversight of operations, ensuring adequate systems of internal ofthese Committees, available on the Groups corporate website, controls and risk management are in place, ensuring maintenance www.
co. uk, and separate reports for each Committee are of accounting and other records and ensuring compliance with includedin this Annual Report from pages 32 to 61. statutory andregulatory obligations: f approval of any extension of the Groups activities or any decision to cease to operate any material part of the Groups business: 28 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board is chaired by Mike Evans, who was appointed on 1 May 2014.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership of the Board, having regard for the interests of all stakeholders and promoting high standards of corporate governance.
Alex Chesterman is the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for implementing the Boards strategy and leading the Senior Management Team.
The role is distinct and separate to that of the Chairman and clear divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing, including thefollowing: Role of Chairman Role of Chief Executive Officer f To run the Board effectively by ensuring meetings are f To manage the Group on a day-to-day basis within held with appropriate frequency.
theauthority delegated by the Board.
f To ensure the frequency and depth of evaluation of the f To ensure, with the Executive team, that Board performance of the Board and its Committees is in decisions are implemented effectively.
f To advise and make recommendations in respect f To chair the Nomination Committee to lead the process ofBoard nominations and succession planning.
for Board appointments and identify and recommend f To make recommendations on remuneration policies, candidates for the approval of the Board.
Executive remuneration and terms of employment f To promote a culture of openness and debate, in forsenior employees.
particular by facilitating the effective contribution of f To keep the Chairman informed of all Non-Executive Directors, andensuring constructive importantmatters.
f To develop and propose Group strategy, annual f To hold meetings with the Non-Executive Directors plansand commercial objectives to the Board.
without ExecutiveDirectors or Senior Managementpresent.
f To ensure that shareholders views are communicated to the Boardas a whole so that all Directors develop an understanding oftheir views.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 29 Corporate governance statement continued Role of the Senior Independent Director SID length and on normal commercial terms, and that the goodwill, The Governance Code recommends that the Board of Directors reputation and commercial interests of the Company are maintained.
ofacompany with a premium listing on the official list of the London Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, DMGT can appoint Stock Exchange Official List should appoint one of the Independent two Directors, providing it holds more than 25% of the votes exercisable Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director to provide at general meetings of the Company, and one Director, providing it a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve asan intermediary for holds more than 10% of those votes.
the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which the The Relationship Agreement will remain in force for so long as a the normal channels through the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors shares of the Company are listed on the premium listing segment of has failed to resolve orfor which isinappropriate.
Duncan Tatton-Brown the Official List and b DMGT or any of its associates together are has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
entitled to exercise or to control the exercise of 10% ormore of the votes which are generally exercisable at general meetings of the Board balance and independence Company.
The two Directors appointed by DMGT are David Dutton As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, the Company is not and Stephen Daintith.
currently compliant with this recommendation but intends to become Grenville Turners current role at Countrywide plc, a customer and compliant within a reasonable period of time.
major shareholder of the Group, means that, at present, we do not The Company has a relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement deem him to be independent.
in place with its principal shareholder, DMGT.
The principal purpose ofthe Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company and its Length of appointments subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their business independently Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for a period of up ofDMGT, that transactions and relationships with DMGT are at arms tothree years, extendable by no more than two additional three yearperiods.
Information, meetings and attendance The Board met on a number of occasions prior to the listing.
Since then the Board has met twice before the financial year end to review operational performance.
The Board has a full programme of Board meetings planned for 2015 and intends to meet six times.
At these meetings, the Board will review the Companys long-term strategic direction and financial plans and monitor the Companys performance against an agreed strategy and business plan.
In addition, the Board will agree key objectives for the Chief Executive Officer on an annual basis and will then monitor his performance against these objectives.
At the Board meeting held on 9 July 2014, seven of the nine Directors attended.
At the Board meeting heldon 25 September 2014, eight of the nine Directors attended.
Due to the short time period between the IPO and the remaining Board datesfor 2014, it was not possible to arrange meetings at which all Directors were available to join due to existing commitments.
Date of Audit Remuneration Nomination appointment to the Plc Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 91 42 23 0 Alex Chesterman 23 April 2014 9 9 1 1 Stephen Morana 23 April 2014 9 9 Mike Evans Chairman 1 May 2014 6 6 1 1 Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2014 5 6 1 1 1 1 Sherry Coutu 1 May 2014 4 6 1 1 0 1 Robin Klein 1 May 2014 9 9 1 1 1 1 Grenville Turner 21 May 2014 9 9 3 3 David Dutton 21 May 2014 9 9 2 2 Stephen Daintith 21 May 2014 8 9 4 4 1 In addition to the nine Board meetings referred to in the table, a further two meetings were held, as part of the IPO process, to deal with the incorporation and reorganisation procedures necessary to set up the Plc entity.
Alex Chesterman and Stephen Morana attended both these meetings: Mike Evans attended one of them.
The meetings included in the table include the Board meetings held by ZPG Limited, the Groups previous parent company.
2 This figure includes the Audit Committee meetings held by ZPG Limited, the Groups previous parent company.
3 This figure includes the Remuneration Committee meetings held by ZPG Limited, the Groups previous parent company.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Prior to each scheduled Board meeting, a pack is circulated in respect of the corresponding financial period, which includes an update on key performance targets, trading performance against budget and includes detailed financial data and analysis.
Boardpacks are distributed five working days prior to each meeting inaccordance with the terms of reference to provide sufficient time forDirectors to review their papers in advance.
If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting for any reason, they nonetheless receive therelevant papers and are consulted prior to the meeting andtheir views are made known tothe other Directors.
30 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Conflicts of interests As noted above, the current Board has been in post for only a The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations shortperiod of time and so a formal evaluation of the performance for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each ofthe Board, its principal committees and the individual Directors Director.
All Directors are required to ensure that they keep these would be of limited value.
However, pending the development and duties under review and to inform the Company Secretary on an implementation of a formal evaluation process during 2015, the ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions.
Boardis satisfied that each Director remains competent to dischargehis her responsibilities as a member of the Board.
The Companys conflict of interest procedures are reflected in its Articles of Association Articles.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the External appointments Articles allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments provided of interest, where appropriate.
The decision to authorise aconflict can that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to only be made by non-conflicted Directors.
TheBoard considers conflicts perform their duties as Executive Directors of the Company.
or potential conflicts at each Boardmeeting.
At the time of his appointment as Chairman it was noted that The Articles require the Company to indemnify its officers, including MikeEvans was Chairman of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc but officers of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from theviewwas taken that this would not adversely impact his theconduct of the Groups business, to the extent permitted by law.
The Group has therefore purchased Directors and officers liability insurance during the year.
Alex Chesterman is currently a Director of Devalink Limited, Hoopla Limited and Barcote Park Management Limited.
Stephen Morana is currently Development aNon-Executive Director of Boohoo.
These appointments In preparation for listing, all Directors received an induction briefing arenot deemed to adversely impact the Directors ability to carry from the Companys legal advisers on their duties and responsibilities outtheir roles.
as Directors of a publicly quoted company.
In addition, the new The Non-Executive Directors appointment letters anticipate a time Non-Executive Directors have met keymembers of Senior Management commitment of 10 days per year, recognising that there is always in order to familiarise themselves with the Group.
thepossibility of an additional time commitment and ad hoc matters During 2015, the Chairman will review and agree with each arising from time to time, particularly when the Company is undergoing Non-Executive Director their individual training and development a period of increased activity.
The average time commitment inevitably needs.
In addition, under the guidance of the Chairman, the increases where a Non-Executive Director assumes additional CompanySecretary will establish a formal induction training responsibilities such as being appointed to a Board Committee.
Relations with shareholders Board evaluation As part of the IPO preparation in 2014, the Board met a large number Given that the majority of the Directors were only appointed in the of investors.
The meetings involved the Chief Executive Officer, months immediately preceding the listing in June 2014, the Board Chief Financial Officer as well as other Senior Management.
believes that a meaningful evaluation of the Board can only take place As part of its future investor relations programme, the Executive after it has been working together for a reasonable time.
An evaluation willaim to maintain an active dialogue with its key stakeholders, policy will be developed and implemented before the end of 2015. including institutional investors, to discuss issues relating to the TheSenior Independent Director, Duncan Tatton-Brown, together performance of the Group including strategy and new developments.
withthe Independent Non-Executive Directors, will evaluate the The Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter performance of the Chairman.
stakeholders might wish to raise.
Election of Directors Investor relations activity and a review of the share register are standing The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill items on the Boards agenda.
Reports from analysts and brokers are avacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so circulated to the Board.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next following are available to attend investor relations meetings or to request AGM and shall then be eligible for election by the shareholders.
meetings with investors or analysts independent of the Groups management, if required.
The forthcoming AGM on 12 February 2015 will be the Companys firstsince registering as a public company.
In accordance with the Governance Code, all the Directors will be offering themselves for election at the AGM to be held at the offices of the Companys solicitors, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, on 12 February 2015, full details of which are set out in the notice of meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
