Board of Directors ZPG is run by an entrepreneurial, balancedandhighly experienced Board.
Our Board has a diverse Board Executive Non-Executive split Board gender diversity mixof backgrounds, skills andexperience and its members are committed tosetting thestrategic  n Executive n Female thehigheststandards of n Non-Executive n Male corporate governance andinstilling a sound Board change as part of the IPO framework for the control A Member of the Audit Committee The Groups Board of Directors changed at the andmanagement ofthe N Member of the Nomination Committee IPO to include further independent Directors and Group, driving it to to appoint a Non-Executive Chairman.
Prior to R Member of the Remuneration Committee theIPO, the Groups Board included Simon Kain, furthersuccess.
Committee Chairman Kevin Beatty and Fred Destin as Directors.
These three Directors stood down from the holding company of the Group at the IPO.
N R N Mike Evans Alex Chesterman Stephen Morana Non-Executive Chairman Founder and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Mike became Chairman of Zoopla Property Group Alex founded Zoopla Property Group in 2007 and Stephen joined Zoopla Property Group in 2013 in 2014.
He has been Chairman of Hargreaves remains as the CEO.
Previously, Alex co-founded and is currently the CFO.
He also serves as Lansdown Plc since 2009, which he joined as LOVEFiLM, Europes leading online DVD rental a Non-Executive Director of boohoo.
Mike is a service, which was successfully sold to Amazon.
Previously, Stephen spent over a decade at qualified actuary with over 30 years experience Alex is recognised as one of the UKs leading BetfairPlc, one of the UKs most successful inthe financial services industry.
He is also a entrepreneurs, has been a winner of the internet businesses.
As part of the Betfair Non-Executive Director of esure Group Plc and Ernst& Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award management team since 2002, he became Chesnara Plc.
He is a member of the advisory and was named by Property Week as oneof the CFOin 2006 and then served as interim CEO board of Spectrum Corporate Finance and is a 100 most important people in the UKresidential in2012.
Prior to Betfair, he held a number of Trustee of Wessex Heartbeat.
Mike was formerly property industry.
Alex holds anhonours degree in senior finance positions, including at Sapient, Chief Operating Officer at Skandia UK Limited and economics from LondonUniversity.
he holds a BSc in mathematics from the University Stephenis a qualified chartered accountant of Bristol.
andamember of the INSEAD alumni.
26 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements A N R A N R A N R Duncan Tatton-Brown Sherry Coutu Robin Klein Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Duncan became a Director of Zoopla Property Sherry became a Director of Zoopla Property Robin became a Director of Zoopla Property Group Group in 2014.
He is currently CFO of Ocado Group in 2014.
She currently serves as a in 2012.
He is currently a venture partner of Index Group Plc, which he joined in 2012.
Previously, Non-Executive Director of the London Stock Ventures, a founding partner of The Accelerator Duncan was CFO of Fitness First Plc and prior to Exchange Group, Cambridge University Press, Group and serves as a Non-Executive Director that was Group Finance Director of Kingfisher Plc, Raspberry Pi and Artfinder.
She also serves on the ofMoneySupermarket Plc.
Robin is a serial one of the worlds largest home improvement advisory boards of LinkedIn and Care.
com and is entrepreneur and an angel investor in a number retailers.
He has held senior finance positions at an External Non-Executive Director of Cambridge ofthe UKs leading high-growth internet businesses.
B&Q Plc, Virgin Entertainment Group and Burton University.
Previously, she has served as a Director Companies he has backed at an early stage Group Plc and was also a Non-Executive Director of New Energy Finance, Jarvis Plc and RM Plc include LastMinute.
com, Agent Provocateur, of Rentokil Initial Plc.
Duncan holds a masters and formerly she founded Interactive Investor LOVEFiLM, Wonga, Mind Candy Moshi Monsters, degree in engineering from Kings College, International Plc.
Sherry was awarded a CBE Fizzback, Tweetdeck, Graze, FreeAgent, Skimlinks Cambridge and is a member of the Chartered in2013 for Services to Entrepreneurship and and Moo.
she holds an MBA from Harvard, an MSc from theLondon School of Economics and a BA fromthe University of British Columbia.
Stephen Daintith David Dutton Grenville Turner Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stephen became a Director of Zoopla Property David became a Director of Zoopla Property Group Grenville became a Director of Zoopla Group in 2013.
He is currently Finance Director in 2012.
He serves as Chairman of DMG Information, PropertyGroup in 2010.
He is currently Group ofDaily Mail & General Trust Plc, which he joined a division of Daily Mail & General Trust Plc, as and Non-Executive Chairman of Countrywide Plc, in2011.
Previously, Stephen was COO and is a Non-Executive Director of a number of other which he joined in 2006, and is also a CFOof Dow Jones, a subsidiary of News Corp. DMGT subsidiaries.
David has been an Executive Non-Executive Director of the DCLG, Chairman He has also held several CEO and CFO positions Director of Daily Mail & General Trust Plc since ofHamptons International, Chairman of in various overseas markets for British American 1997 and advises the Group on property matters.
BellpennyLtd and Chairman of Knightsbridge Tobacco.
Stephen started his career as an He also serves as Chairman of UCL Business Plc.
He was formerly Chief accountant at Price Waterhouse and holds David is a successful entrepreneur and holds a BA Executive, Intelligent Finance and Chief Executive, adegree from Leeds University.
in economics from Cambridge University and an Business to Business at HBOS and has previously MBA from Harvard University.
served as a Director of St Jamess Place Capital Plc, Sainsburys Bank Plc and Rightmove Plc.
Grenville qualified as a chartered banker and holds an MBA from Cranfield Business School.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
