Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committees role istoensure we have the right people.
Chairmans introduction My role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee complements that of Chairman ofthe Board as one of my key responsibilities is to ensure we have the right people with theright skills on the Board and in Senior Management positions.
During the forthcoming year, I am therefore committed to ensuring that succession planning is a key focus for the During the forthcoming Nomination Committee.
year, I am committed to The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating ensuring that succession candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board vacancies and tokeep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience planning is a key focus on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution of the membership of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board on composition for the Nomination and balance.
The Committee will be proactive in discharging these responsibilities, cognisant of the importance of succession planning Committee.
and the need to align Board and Executive leadership skills to the Companys long-term strategy.
Mike Evans Chairman, Nomination Committee 36 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Composition Diversity The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mike Evans and its other Whilst the Company pursues diversity, including gender diversity, members are Alex Chesterman, Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein and throughout the business, and the Board endorses the aspirations of DuncanTatton-Brown.
David Dutton attends as an observer appointed the Davies Review on Women on Boards, the Board is not committing by DMGT.
The Governance Code recommends that a majority of the to any specific targets.
Our Board currently has one female Director Nomination Committee be non-executive directors, independent in 11% of the Board.
We will give due consideration to Board balance character and judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance and diversity when making new appointments to the Board.
The Board which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
will engage executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary As such, the Board considers that the Company complies with the code of conduct setting out the seven key principles of best practice Governance Code.
The Company considers that the attendance of an to abide by throughout the recruitment process and will continue to observer at Committee meetings will not prejudice the independence follow a policy of appointing talented people at every level to deliver orproper functioning of the Committee.
The Board will also ensure that its own development in this area is consistent with its strategic objectives and enhances The Nomination Committee will meet as often as it deems necessary Board effectiveness.
but in any event at least twice a year.
Roles and responsibilities The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition and make-up of the Board Mike Evans and any committees of the Board.
It is also responsible for periodically Chairman, Nomination Committee reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors or Committee members as the need may arise.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the size, structure and composition of the Board and Committees of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and Committee members and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website at www.
Activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee did not meet formally between 23 June 2014 and 30 September 2014.
The first meeting of the Nomination Committee took place on 20 November 2014.
Prior to the creation of the Nomination Committee, as part of the preparation for the IPO, the Board received a detailed report on the skills and experience of the members of the Management Team as part of its consideration of succession planning.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
