Directors report Audit and Risk Committee report Dear shareholders The committee were The Audit and Risk Committee is made up of three satisfied that the controls independent nonexecutive directors, myself as Chairman, Mark Bankes and Edward Haslam.
Biographies of the over the accuracy and members of the committee can be found on page 58. consistency of the Biographies can be found on page 58 In accordance with the Ontario Securities Commission information in the 2014 requirements, all members of the committee are considered annual report were financially literate pursuant to section 1.5 of the Multilateral Instrument 52110 and in compliance with the Code, I am sufficiently robust, the member with the required relevant financial experience as a professionally qualified accountant.
having received monthly, The committee operates within the terms of reference set quarterly and annual out in its charter, which were reviewed and updated during reviews on the control the year and can be found at www.
environment and approach The committee was satisfied that the controls over the to key accounting policies, accuracy and consistency of the information in the 2014 annual report were sufficiently robust, having received estimates and judgments.
monthly, quarterly and annual reviews on the control environment and approach to key accounting policies, estimates and judgments.
The committee has, at the request of the Board, also considered whether the annual report is fair, balanced and Mark Arnesen understandable.
In arriving at that decision, the committee Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee has been involved in reviewing, at an early stage, the content of both the financial statements and the strategic, performance and governance reporting.
The assessment of each component by the committee can be summarised as follows: is the annual report fair and balanced?
The committee concluded that the annual report was fair and balanced having considered the activity of the Company during the period and how this activity, KPIs and overall performance were presented throughout annual report.
An example is the reporting of the positive key achievements during the year, such as the increase in throughput following completion of the expanded plant, but which has been balanced fairly against the backdrop of a lower gold price and reduced production guidance in 2014 and 2015: and is the annual report clear and understandable?
The Committee recommended the removal and separate filing of the MD&A compliance document which is a Canadian requirement from the annual report to further assist with clear and concise messaging.
In addition, the three strategic priorities are imbedded throughout the report, which aid the user in understanding the strategy and how this has impacted upon our KPIs and overall operational and financial performance.
88 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The activities of the committee, its principal responsibilities There was no material nonaudit work carried out by PWC and its engagement with the external auditor are set during the year, with the majority of the tax advisory services out below.
continuing to be provided by the Deloitte LLP tax teams in the UK and Australia.
The Groups policy for nonaudit External auditor services sets out the categories which the external auditor As set out in the 2013 annual report, the committee will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group and was satisfied with Deloitte LLP, having assessed their those engagements that need preapproval of the Group.
independence, ethical standards and objectivity.
However, Fees for audit services incurred during the year amounted to following over ten years of external audit provided by US$500,000 including the interim review fee of US$100,000.
Deloitte, it was decided that the audit for the Company Nonaudit fees for PWC were US$125,000.
Full details are should be put out to tender.
Details of the tender process set out in Note 22 to the financial statements.
are set out in the following section.
The tender process A summary of our policy on nonaudit services and auditor was conducted in compliance with best practice guidelines independence can be found on our website.
and there are no matters in connection with Deloittes resignation as auditor which, in the view of the committee PWC have open access to the Board of Directors at all times and the Board, need to be brought to the attention of and the audit partner and certain of the audit management shareholders.
 LLP PWC, were team attend and present at relevant committee meetings appointed on 23 June 2014 and have since carried out the throughout the year.
review engagement for the half year ended 30 June 2014 and the statutory audit for the year end 31 December 2014.
External audit tender process The audit opinion can be found on page 95 The committee noted in the 2013 annual report and proxy materials that having reviewed the Companys governance There has been no rotation of audit partner since PWCs arrangements, taking account of recommendations in the appointment.
The Companys policy is to tender the Code, the committee envisaged commencing an audit external audit every ten years.
tender process for the Companys external auditor.
The committee continues to monitor the auditors In 2014, the committee carried out a tender for the annual objectivity and independence and I am satisfied that statutory audit, approaching a number of firms including PWC and the Group have appropriate policies and midtier and the big four audit firms.
The firms were procedures in place to ensure that these requirements selected based on their experience, industry knowledge are not compromised.
I am also satisfied that the audit and matters which, may otherwise, compromise their engagement for the financial year ended 2014 was both independence and objectivity.
Deloitte LLP was also effective and added value to the Group.
invited to tender for the audit.
 carried out the half year review Aided by management, the committee assessed each of the and annual statutory audit.
The auditor presented to the selected firms and shortlisted four firms.
These shortlisted committee its audit planning approach in the run up to firms were given access to information, materials and both audits.
The committee, having reviewed the plans, personnel to allow them to prepare for their presentations assessed the content and scope of the audit, ensuring to the Committee and senior members of the finance team.
that the key audit areas were identified and that the audit approach was appropriate for the Company, given the Those involved in the final selection process included committee has a detailed understanding of the controls all three members of the committee, Pierre Louw CFO, in place.
The committee then met following each audit Lynne Gregory General Counsel and Liesel Sobey and assessed the efficiency and timeliness in which the Group Accountant.
The committee also reviewed the recommendations of the auditor and the implementation by management of those proposals.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 89 Directors report Audit and Risk Committee report continued External audit tender process continued Controls over financial reports and financial statements The members of this selection panel were impressed by the quality of the tenders which made the decision The consolidated financial statements and annual report are difficult, however, the committee ultimately recommended prepared at the Companys head office in Jersey, where the the appointment of  LLP as the Group Accountant and Chief Financial Officer are based.
The Board agreed with the The accounting information from the Groups operations committees recommendation and PWC were then formally is provided to the head office where the ledgers are appointed as the Companys auditor on 23 June 2014. consolidated.
Appropriate reconciliations and reviews are Deloitte resigned as auditor effective the same date.
performed at the level of the operation and at the Groups head office by way of the performance of monthly, quarterly PWC will continue to fill the casual vacancy created and the and annual reconciliations.
Board will be recommending the appointment of PWC to shareholders at the AGM on 18 May 2015.
Committee activity in 2014 15 Details of the activities carried out by the committee during Internal controls the year are detailed in the table below.
Activity over the coming year will include progressing a scoping document in relation to the provision of internal Audit and Risk Committee members audit services which will assist the Group and enhance the Mark Arnesen Chairman of the committee control and reporting environment for the financial reporting Edward Haslam Member team.
Whilst this was initially an objective for 2014, an Mark Bankes Member internal auditor has not been appointed to date, as the The AR Committee meetings are regularly attended, by relative size and simplicity of the Group did not warrant invitation, by the Chairman, CEO, CFO and the Group such an appointment.
However, following the ramp up of Accountant along with the Company Secretary and General the processing plant and the growth of our exploration Counsel.
PWC are also invited to attend key meetings.
programmes, it is proposed that the committee identifies a Separate discussions outside a formal committee meeting suitable firm to carry out the internal audit.
The committees are regularly held between the Audit Partner, the committee will utilise the external statutory audit to assist in identifying Chairman and the CFO.
key areas of focus for the provision of internal audit services.
Eight meetings of the committee were held during the year.
With the exception of one meeting, where a quorum of two was present, all other meetings had full attendance by its members.
Responsibility and activity of the AR Committee The AR Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities by exercising due care, diligence and skill in the following main areas: Topic Summary Activities of the Committee during 2014 15 Financial reporting The application of The review of quarterly, half year and annual results.
and shareholder accounting policies Key accounting policies judgments and estimates see Note 4. communication and reporting of Adoption of new accounting standards see Note 3. financial information Review of the annual report, to ensure the content is fair, balanced and understandable for to shareholders, the users of the annual report.
regulators and the Attendance by the committee Chairman at the AGM to answer any shareholder queries.
Details of the risk management and internal controls are summarised in the corporate governance report together with the assessment which was undertaken by the Board during the year.
Further principal risks and the risk management framework are detailed in the strategic report.
90 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Topic Summary Activities of the Committee during 2014 15 Internal controls Management and The review of regular internal reports from management including analysis on forecasts, actual internal control budget financial and production reports, information on adherence to internal controls and systems, including recommendations for improvements to the internal control framework.
business policies and The review and monitoring of the Companys internal control and risk management systems, practices: monitoring in compliance with the Code, resulted in a number of recommendations by the committee, and reviewing the to include: effectiveness of the review of the processes and approvals as set out in the concession agreement to include Companys internal timing and modelling of cost recovery and profit share : audit function.
visibility of the ongoing review and monitoring of key contractors: IT resilience and data security: and treasury and banking procedures including branch accounts.
The committee also reviewed both mandatory and voluntary reporting requirements, by virtue of its domicile in Jersey, Channel Islands, taking into account stakeholder expectations on the reporting disclosures of the Group.
The proposed appointment of an internal auditor in compliance with Code C. 3.6 is set out in 2015 objectives above.
The Group maintains a whistleblowing policy, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website.
External audit Corporate conduct Review of the audit planning at the half year and full year and monitor its implementation.
and business ethics, Assess auditor effectiveness, ensuring the external auditor maintains their independence including auditor and objectivity.
independence and The adequacy of the auditors qualifications, expertise and resources.
ongoing compliance The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its handling of the key accounting and with laws and audit judgments.
Risk evaluation Assessment of the The committee reviews the corporate risk registers and operational risk assessments throughout and mitigation principal risks facing the year, giving due consideration to the adequacy of controls and safeguards as well as the the Group and approach to risk mitigation.
The committee aims to ensure that the Companys risk appetite effectiveness of the is aligned with the longterm objectives of the Group.
The committee made the following risk management recommendations to enhance risk reporting and disclosures: systems.
quarterly reports to the committee summarising the conclusions and discussions of senior management about actual or perceived risks: granularity of the risk weighting, to include both the probability and likelihood of the principal risks: and enhanced reporting to capture the data, allowing the committee to comply with the revised 2014 Code.
The exploration for and development of metals and mineral resources, together with the construction and development of mining operations is an activity that involves a high degree of risk.
Due to the nature of these inherent risks, it is not possible to give absolute assurance that mitigating actions will be wholly effective.
The table set out in the strategic report describes the key risks affecting the Company and its underlying operational and exploration activities together with the measures to mitigate risk.
A full list of the principal risks affecting the Centamin Group can be found in the strategic report.
Accounting for Concession Cost recovery and accounting treatment across SGM and PGM.
Maintenance of the PPE register and asset allocation.
Timing and modelling of future profit share with government.
Future accounting treatment and recognition of EMRAs minority interest.
Review of the committees terms of reference taking account of the revisions to the Code in 2014. Review of the effectiveness of the committee.
Review of subsidiary audit and accounts preparation including consolidation of Ampella Mining Limited into the Group.
Review of the carrying value of the investments in other exploration companies.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 91 Directors report Audit and Risk Committee report continued Significant issues highlighted during the year by the committee The following significant issues were highlighted during the year by the committee full details and analysis are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Topic Significant issue How the committee addressed these issues External audit Completion of tender Details of how the committee carried out the tender process resulting in the appointment of for external auditor.
PWC are set out in the table above.
Accounting for Impairment of Management have concluded that there is no indication that an impairment exists, nor have transactions assets other than any indicators arisen after the reporting period and are therefore not required to perform a full exploration and impairment review under IAS 36. evaluation and In making its assessment as to the possibility of whether impairments losses having arisen, financial assets.
Management considered the following indications: internal sources of information: external sources of information: litigation: the key assumptions applied in the 31 December 2013 impairment review: forecast gold prices: discount rate: production volumes: reserves and resources report: and costs and recovery rates.
The committee reviewed the papers presented by management in respect to IAS 39 and are in agreement with the conclusions set out above.
The Group exercises judgment in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures transactions to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation, as well as other contingent liabilities see Note 20 to the financial statements.
Judgment is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
The details of this litigation, which relate to the loss of the Egyptian national subsidy for diesel 2 fuel oil and the ability of the Group to operate outside the area of 3km determined by the Administrative Court of first instance to be the area of the Sukari exploitation lease, are given in Note 20 to the financial statements and in the most recently filed Annual Information Form AIF which is available on SEDAR at www.
The Committee have reviewed the external legal opinions, the opinions of the Companys General Counsel and the facts associated with the litigation and are in agreement with management on the accounting judgments and agree that in the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, it is managements belief that the Group will be able to continue as going concern.
92 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Topic Significant issue How the committee addressed these issues Accounting for Going concern.
Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC the directors of UK transactions listed companies are required to consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial statements.
Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, in which any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Key assumptions underpinning this forecast include: litigation as discussed in Note 20 to the financial statements: forecast gold price: production volumes: and costs and recovery rates.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing the financial statements.
Accounting for Accounting SGM is consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the substance and transactions treatment of Sukari economic reality of the Concession Agreement see Note 21 to the financial statements.
The Group, in considering the relevant activities of SGM, its power over these activities and exposure to the variable returns has concluded that the Group consolidate this interest.
A noncontrolling interest is recorded in relation to the equity in the subsidiaries that are not attributable to the Group.
Note 21 to the financial statements sets out in detail the accounting treatment for all the assets, liabilities, income and expense of SGM.
The committee reviewed papers from management and agree with the accounting treatment as set out above.
Going concern Overview The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group As a result of its work during the year, the committee will have adequate resources to continue in operational has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to terms of reference and has ensured the independence adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing and objectivity of the external auditor.
A member of the the financial statements.
The going concern statement is committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting detailed in full in Note 3 to the financial statements.
along with the CFO to answer any questions in relation to this report.
External auditor During the year, the committee carried out an evaluation So far as each current director of the Company is aware, the of its own performance, taking into consideration the auditor has had full access to all relevant information and contribution to the quarterly and annual accounts and the the committee has answered any questions raised by the risk review and risk assessment process.
The committee also auditor allowing the auditor to carry out its duties.
considered its composition, the competency, availability and The committee recommends to the Board the appointment contribution of its members and did not recommend any of PWC as auditor at the forthcoming Annual General further changes to the Board.
PWC has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor.
Mark Arnesen For and on behalf of Audit and Risk Committee of Centamin plc 23 March 2015 Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 93
