Directors report Corporate governance Dear shareholders The communication I am presenting this corporate governance report in channels between senior my capacity as Chairman of the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee, a committee established by management and the the Board of the Company whose function is to make Board have enabled recommendations to the Board on matters such as: a the implementation, maintenance and monitoring of open discussion on the the Companys corporate compliance programme requirement and content and its Code of Conduct, taking account of applicable government and industry standards, legal and business of public disclosures, to trends and public policy issues: and meet regulatory obligations b the Companys activities in the area of corporate compliance that might impact upon its business as well as ensuring the operations or public image.
shareholders are properly The Company is incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The Company is by virtue of the Listing Rules, subject to the Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council and therefore the Company must confirm that it has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code or to explain areas of noncompliance.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils Mark Bankes website www.
Chairman of the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee In addition, the Company is required to follow the principles of corporate governance set out in the best practice recommendations of the Toronto Stock Exchange, in particular those recommendations in National Policy 58201 Corporate Governance Guidelines NP 58201.
This report sets out the key areas the Board has focused on during the year, from a corporate governance perspective, together with details of the roles of the key Board members and an assessment of the effectiveness of the Board.
62 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Fundamental to the Groups corporate governance policy and practice is that all directors and employees reflect the Companys key values of accountability, fairness, integrity and openness.
The key areas of activity for the development of the I am able to advise that, following the recent appointment Companys approach to corporate governance are of our new Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Pardey, listed below: the previously combined roles of Chairman CEO are now separate.
external audit tender process resulting in the appointment of PWC.
The communication channels between senior management and the Board have enabled open discussion on the See Audit and Risk Committee report requirement and content of public disclosures, to meet regulatory obligations as well as ensuring the shareholders appointment of the new CEO and separate role are properly informed about key events.
Having consulted with the nonexecutive directors we See nomination report believe that the format of the Board, in conjunction with the activities of the various Board Committees allows development of the executive remuneration and open debate with the directors able to engage on matters further disclosure.
of executive management policy, performance and risk See remuneration report management.
This framework allows them to effectively monitor the performance of management and develop proposals on strategy.
evaluation of Board and Committee composition changes.
See nomination report Mark Bankes Chairman of the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee 23 March 2015 Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 63 Directors report Corporate governance continued Compliance statement Key activities of the Board in 2013 14: Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014, the review, approval and implementation of the business Company has been in compliance with the provisions set case and acquisition of Ampella Mining Limited: out in the Code with the exception of the following matters: review and approval of the updated resource and reserve statements and associated compliance document The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO 43101 : were both exercised by Josef ElRaghy during 2014.
This review, approval and implementation of the JV with matter has now been addressed, following the appointment Alecto Mineral plc: of Andrew Pardey as the Companys CEO effective from 1 February 2015.
Josef ElRaghy, the Companys interim approval of the appointment of the Companys new CEO, will continue in his role as Chairman.
external auditor, PWC, following the formal audit tender process: Some of the additional responsibilities undertaken by the approve dividend policy and maiden interim dividend: senior independent nonexecutive director will, over the course of 2015, revert to the Chairman.
The enhanced review of KPIs for the executive directors and senior role undertaken by the senior independent nonexecutive management and reviewing performance appraisals: director was put in place to ensure that control of certain review of succession planning, diversity and Board key areas of Board responsibility was devolved away from performance and evaluation: and the Chairman while the roles were combined.
monitor the Groups relationship with EMRA and review and approve any advance payments to EMRA.
It should be noted that both the Code and best practice recommendations favour that the Chairman be an Standing agenda items for the Board: independent director on appointment.
Josef ElRaghy is reports and updates from the Chairmen of the respective not an independent nonexecutive Chairman within the Board Committees: meaning of the Code.
As such, the senior independent Sukari operational review and monthly reporting: nonexecutive director will continue to take an active role to ensure the Boards ongoing effectiveness in all respects.
exploration updates for the sites in Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia: It is noted that in the case of the directors remuneration setting budgets and production guidance for the year: report, the disclosures have exceeded the obligations on the Company given its incorporation in Jersey.
However, litigation updates on the Companys ongoing court the Company considers such enhanced disclosure is hearings details of which can be found in Note 4 : appropriate to allow shareholders to compare the Company review and approval of the Companys quarterly, with UK incorporated FTSE 350 listed companies.
It has also half yearly and annual financial statements: incorporated many additional and voluntary disclosures in review of the AGM circular, dividend proposals and its strategic report.
compliance reports and policies: How the Board of Directors operates review of the Companys principal risks and orchestrating the ongoing development of the The Board sets and implements the strategic aims and Companys risk appetite: values of the Company, providing strategic direction to management.
The specific matters reserved to the Board review of material contracts: and are set out in the Board Charter which is available on the review of business development opportunities.
The matters reserved for the Board include any significant matters As indicated below, the Board has established Audit and affecting the Group.
The key activities and standing agenda Risk, Compliance Corporate Governance, Nomination, items for the Board are summarised below.
Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environmental and Sustainability Committees.
The Board has delegated certain For further information on key Board activity matters to the Committees which can be viewed in their See strategic report respective charters available on the Companys website www.
com 64 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Leadership The responsibilities of the Board and key roles within the organisation are set out below: The Chairman, Josef ElRaghy, is responsible for ensuring the business is run in accordance with the Boards strategy.
The Chairman: Following the appointment of the new CEO, Josefs lead the Board and ensure it operates effectively: previous responsibilities for implementing strategy and ensure all matters on the agenda are given due overseeing the daytoday running of the business will be consideration and that directors have the opportunity handed over to Andrew Pardey during the course of 2015. to contribute to the Board discussion: The management team and Board are relatively few in number and are, therefore, actively involved in, and made communicate with shareholders in relation to the aware of, all the major activities of the Group.
They can Companys strategic aims and policies: and therefore ensure the Companys actions are aligned with represent the Group before key stakeholders including the strategic aims of the Group.
Areas of focus for the Board in 2015 Nonexecutive directors: Strategic planning the Board regularly reviews and challenge and help develop the Groups strategy: approves strategic plans and initiatives put forward by participate as members of the Board and on management and the executive, including geographical certain committees: diversification.
Details of the strategic objectives for cash monitor the performance of management: generation, shareholder return and the growth of the Company can be found in the strategic report.
be satisfied as to the adequacy and integrity of financial and other reporting: Communications the Board oversees the Companys determine appropriate levels of remuneration for public communications with shareholders and other executive directors: and stakeholders and plans further developments to aid the flow raise any concerns with the Board.
of information between the Companys operations, senior management and the Board.
Chief Executive Officer: Risk assessment the Board has primary responsibility for develop and implement, short, medium and long term identifying the principal risks in the Companys business corporate strategies: and to ensure the implementation of appropriate systems responsible for daytoday management of the business to manage these risks.
The Board will be reviewing the and the implementation of the Boards strategic aims: updates to the 2014 Code and further evaluating the and processes for identifying and mitigating both operational promote the highest standards of safety, corporate and corporate risks.
compliance and adherence to codes of conduct.
Internal control the Board, with assistance from the Audit For senior management roles and responsibilities and Risk Committee oversees the Groups internal control See strategic report and management information systems.
The Board will be reviewing the conclusions of the committee with regard to Detailed knowledge of the Groups activities is essential and, the appointment of an externally appointed internal auditor.
each year, the Board visit Sukari where they are shown the underground operation, open pit site and the operations Reporting and audit the Board, through the Audit and plant, accompanied by the heads of department based at Risk Committee are reviewing proposals to enhance and Sukari.
In addition to regular site visits to Sukari, the senior streamline the accounting function.
The Board will also be members of the management team and executive visit the working closely with the newly appointed auditor to assess exploration sites in Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia whether there are areas where reporting could be improved to ensure the activities in these regions are aligned with the further to enhance the business.
corporate objectives of the Group.
Relationship with stakeholders maintaining, developing and monitoring relationships with key stakeholders including EMRA in relation to Sukari and other governments in Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 65 Directors report Corporate governance continued Board appointments and independence Managing risks and internal controls There were no Board appointments during the course of The Board is responsible for satisfying itself that 2014, however, in 2015 the vacancy for the position of CEO, management has developed and implemented a sound who has also been appointed as an executive director, was system of risk management and internal control.
The Nomination Committee, through the process of by the Audit and Risk Committee, management reports to succession planning, had ensured that adequate support the Board on the Groups key risks and the extent to which and development were given to Andrew Pardey to prepare it believes these risks are being appropriately managed him for the role of CEO.
After a thorough assessment and mitigated.
of the experience and expertise of Andrew Pardey and During the year, the Company conducted an assessment of his performance as COO, the Nomination Committee the control environment of the Group, summarised by the recommended, and the Board unanimously agreed, to following key headings: appoint Andrew Pardey as the Companys new CEO effective from 1 February 2015. corporate governance framework: management reporting framework: The Nomination Committee and the Board also considered and approved that Josef ElRaghy, interim CEO, continue in procedures for forecasting and budgeting: his role as Chairman of the Board.
external reporting obligations and procedures: As disclosed in the 2013 annual report, following the information technology environment: and completion and commissioning of Stage 4, Trevor Schultz corporate and operational principal risk assessment.
resigned as an executive director and was appointed a The Board made the following key recommendations nonexecutive director.
Trevor Schultz was subsequently following the review: appointed Chairman of the HSES Committee following the retirement of Bob Bowker.
The Nomination Committee and development of segregation of duties and signatory the Board were in agreement with the recommendation to controls for new exploration assets: retain the skills, knowledge and experience of Trevor Schultz data capture, information and file sharing procedures for on the Board of the Company.
newly acquired assets: The Company remains compliant with the provisions of enhanced treasury procedures for the diversification of the Code that the Board should have a greater number cash deposits: of nonexecutive directors than executive directors.
enhanced reporting to the Board for contractor The Company continues to be compliant following the management and key deliverables: resignation of Bob Bowker in January 2015. the appointment of an outsourced internal auditor: and When determining whether a director is independent, the further development of the risk register to include levels Board has established a Directors Test of Independence of probability and likely impact of principal risks.
Policy, which is based predominantly on the definition of independence in Canadian Securities Administrators It was noted that the above recommendations were not National Instrument 52110 Audit Committees seen as significant failings or weaknesses, but reflect the NI 52110, and is available on the Companys website breadth and scope of the review.
or to shareholders upon request.
The criteria in NI Strategic report covering evaluation and risk mitigation 52110 are mandatory and are more stringent in certain See page 42 respects than the independence criteria suggested by the Code.
Based on this policy, the majority of the Board are Audit and risk report covering the control environment considered by the Board to be independent nonexecutive See page 88 directors.
Board composition and reelection For a summary of the social conditions in Egypt and the It is proposed at the date of this annual report that all Middle East and provides an explanation as to the gender directors will be put forward for reelection at the AGM.
balance in the workforce All directors are subject to annual reelection.
See CSR report on page 46 66 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The Board of Directors At the date of this report the Board is made up of a Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, four independent nonexecutive directors and one nonexecutive director.
See directors details on pages 58 and 59 The following table sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each director.
Health, safety, Compliance and environmental and corporate Remuneration Nonexecutive Board Audit and risk sustainability governance nomination Edward Haslam Attended C. Attended Attended C. Attended 5 of 5 8 of 8 4 of 4 4 of 4 2 of 2 Trevor Schultz Attended Attended 4 of 5 1 of 1 Mark Arnesen Attended Attended C. Attended Attended Attended 5 of 5 8 of 8 3 of 3 1 of 1 4 of 4 2 of 2 Mark Bankes Attended Attended Attended Attended C. 5 of 5 7 of 8 4 of 4 4 of 4 Bob Bowker Attended Attended C. Attended Attended 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 2 of 2 Kevin Tomlinson Attended Attended Attended 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 2 of 2 Executive Josef ElRaghy Attended C. 5 of 5 This table excludes meetings held by written resolution or subcommittees and reflects the membership during 2014.
Mark Arnesen joined the CGC Committee in September 2014 and was replaced on the HSES Committee by Trevor Schultz.
Edward Haslam chaired the majority of the Board meetings in line with the delegation of certain of the Chairman roles noted above.
Board Committees The Board Committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance structure.
The workload of the Board Committees is far greater than the table of scheduled meetings would indicate, as adhoc meetings and communications occur frequently between the directors and management.
Details of the activity of the committees is set out below.
HSES Committee and CSR See page 46 Nomination Committee See page 69 Remuneration Committee See page 72 Audit and Risk Committee See page 88 Employees Information relating to employees is contained in the CSR report together with details of the number of employees at Sukari.
Centamin abides by antidiscrimination legislation in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
These principles are also set out in the Companys Code of Conduct which sets out the framework in which Centamin expects all staff to operate.
Environmental compliance The directors are aware of their commitment to environmental, community and social responsibility, details of which can be found in the CSR report.
The Group is currently complying with relevant environmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and has no knowledge of any environmental orders or breaches against the Group.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 67 Directors report Corporate governance continued Compliance Corporate Governance Committee Key shareholder and investor relations activities throughout the year: As at the date of this report, the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee is chaired by Mark Bankes and its Date: Activity other members are Edward Haslam and Mark Arnesen.
January February Investor conference, London The committees primary functions and responsibilities are 2014 Investor, analyst site visit, Sukari set out in the charter which can be found on the Companys Investor conference, South Africa website.
The activities undertaken during the year included March April 2014 Investor marketing, North America the following: Investor marketing, London Analyst and investor conference calls review of progress in respect to the Concession following annual results Agreement court hearing and the DFO litigation as May June 2014 Investor marketing, Edinburgh detailed further in Note 20 to the financial statements : Investor marketing, London Analyst and investor conference call review the implementation plans following the following Q1 results acquisition of Ampella Mining Limited: July August Marketing, Zurich review the reporting and disclosure requirements as September 2014 Conference, Denver required by the LSE and TSX: Investor, analyst site visit, Sukari assist the Board and management on the requirements Analyst and investor conference calls following Q2 results to make public disclosures: and October November Investor marketing, London monitoring the Companys systems and controls 2014 Analyst and investor conference call including a review of the policies and procedures.
following Q3 results Shareholder communication The Board recognises the importance of keeping the All shareholders are encouraged to attend our AGM on market fully informed of the Groups activities and of 18 May 2015, which will be held in London.
This will be communicating openly and clearly with all stakeholders.
an excellent opportunity to meet Board members and our The Company has established a formal Continuous senior management team.
Disclosure Policy to ensure this occurs.
Details of the Companys policies can be found on the Companys The Board of Directors aims to ensure that shareholders are website.
A subcommittee of the Board monitors provided with important information in a timely manner via and advises on the Companys continuous disclosure written and electronic communications.
All actions and decisions of the subcommittee The Chairman, CEO, other directors and our head of are presented to the CGC Committee at the next investor relations communicate with major shareholders available meeting.
on a regular basis through facetoface meetings, Details of the Companys policies and procedures can be telephone conversations, and analyst and broker briefings found on the Companys website.
to help better understand the views of the shareholders.
Any material feedback is then discussed at Board level.
Shareholder resolutions In particular the feedback from the certain of the proxy In 2014 additional share securities were issued for the advisory companies, which provide guidance and voting purpose of acquiring Ampella Mining Ltd, which was made recommendations to shareholders, were discussed by possible by the resolution approved at the 2013 AGM the Board.
authorising the issue of further securities, for purposes Shareholder communication policy reporting to such as this recommended takeover offer.
The continued shareholders through: support of the Companys shareholders in this way is recognised and valued by the Board and allows the the annual report: Company to further expand and meet the Companys the annual information form: long term objectives.
quarterly and halfyearly reports: Political donations continuous disclosure requirements: Centamin does not make donations to any organisations webcasts on quarterly results: with stated political associations.
the Annual General Meeting: Supplier and payment policy the Companys website: It is the Companys policy that, subject to compliance registrar services: and with trading terms by the supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance electronic and postal notifications.
Further details on trade creditors are provided in Note 15 to the financial statements.
