Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Nomination report Dear shareholders Reviews of management I am presenting this report as Chairman of the Nomination capabilities and potential Committee, a committee established by the Board of the Company whose primary functions and responsibilities as are performed on a routine set out in the committee charter are to: basis and resources make recommendations for the structure, size and composition of the Board and Board Committees: allocated to assist with this assist with the alignment of directorships held within the continued development.
Groups subsidiary companies: review the necessary and desirable competencies, skills, knowledge and experience of directors: review the Board succession plans: and make recommendations for the appointment, reelection and removal of directors to from the Board.
The activities undertaken by the committee during the year include the following: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and Board Committees which resulted in recommendations to the Board to: appoint Mark Arnesen to the CGC Committee: appoint Trevor Schultz as a nonexecutive director and appoint him to the HSES Committee in place of Mark Arnesen: appoint Andrew Pardey as CEO and recommend that Josef ElRaghy continue as Chairman: and appoint Trevor Schultz as Chairman of the HSES Committee following the retirement of Bob Bowker.
appointing Heidi Brown to be director of the Groups Australian subsidiary companies, to remain compliant with the Corporations Act: considering the requirements for Board diversity including gender diversity : reviewing the Board succession plans which resulted in the recommendation and appointment of Andrew Pardey as the Companys Chief Executive Officer: and making recommendations for the appointment and reelection of directors to the Board at the AGM.
Within the remit of the Nomination Committee, there is a requirement to ensure adequate succession planning is routinely discussed.
Reviews of management capabilities and potential are performed on a routine basis and resources allocated to assist with this continued development.
The report provides more detail on the activities, decisions and policies of the Nomination Committee and Board.
G Edward Haslam Chairman of the Nomination Committee 23 March 2015 Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 69 Directors report Nomination report continued Nomination Committee Executive and management team As at the date of this report, the Nomination Committee Gender diversity comprises Edward Haslam Chairman, Mark Arnesen and Kevin Tomlinson, all of whom are independent 4 nonexecutive directors of the Company.
All appointed members attended all four committee meetings held during the year.
Board diversity The Board considered the recommendations of the 11 Nomination Committee in connection with Board diversity and in particular gender diversity and the Board has agreed that whilst all appointments should be continued to be made on merit, female candidates will be considered routinely as part of the recruitment process.
It is our Male Female intention to identify a suitable female candidate during the course of the next twelve months.
In addition, and as part Industry experience of our succession planning, we will continue to appoint and encourage female professionals to ensure a progressive 1 pipeline of talent within the Companys management and 1 senior management team.
4 In this last context the committee noted that a number of females already hold senior positions within the Company, in the areas of legal, accountancy, HSES and subsidiary directorships.
However, as set out in the CSR report, mining is traditionally a male dominated industry and of our 2 7 Egyptian workforce only 1% are female.
This is mainly due to social conditions in Egypt and in the Middle East where in general female employees are not encouraged to work at Mining Company secretarial remote sites.
A greater percentage of females are employed Legal Environmental throughout the Group in the administrative offices and at Accounting the Companys headquarters.
In developing the Companys policy on diversity, the Board Years experience has considered the requirements of the Code and the National Instrument 58101.
3 2 The Board, through the recommendations of the Nomination Committee, will provide an update on the recruitment process in future reporting disclosures.
2 Details of the current composition of the Board and the wider management team are set out in the directors report.
4 4 40 yrs 20 yrs 30 yrs 15 yrs 25 yrs 70 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Performance evaluation In addition, the Board discussed in detail the scope and remit of the new CEO, Andrew Pardey, and specifically The senior independent nonexecutive director held the KPIs and areas of focus for Andrew Pardey and meetings with the nonexecutive directors without the the handover of certain of Josef ElRaghys assumed executive directors present, providing feedback to the responsibilities as acting CEO.
These meetings focused primarily on the evaluation of the Boards performance, a performance The Board recognises the requirements of the Code evaluation of the Chairman, discussing the quality in appointing an external facilitator to evaluate the of reporting and information flows to the Board and performance of the Board.
In June 2013, the Institute of discussions on the strategic aims and objectives for the Directors carried out an evaluation of the Board and the Group.
The nonexecutives also discussed openly with the findings were reviewed and accepted by the nonexecutive executive directors, the areas they could assist further in directors.
During 2015 16 a further evaluation will relation to business development.
An evaluation of the Board and its committees was The performance of all directors is constantly reviewed undertaken during the year and was concluded in March by the Chairman and, periodically, by the Nomination 2015.
The Board, in conducting their evaluation, reviewed Committee.
The Company deployed a formal process for the activity, composition and expertise of the committees evaluation of the Board, the Board members, the Board and considered their effectiveness taking account of Committees and the Chairman during the relevant period the following: led by the senior independent nonexecutive director.
the responsibilities set out in their respective charters: The Board has also had training sessions on various topics activities carried out during the year, taking account of during the year, carried out by  LLP their mandated duties and responsibilities: topics included contractor management, identifying progress made in respect of their duties and principal risks and accounting judgments and estimates.
responsibilities: Further training sessions on listing rule requirements given by London law firms were attended by the Board and attendance and contribution to the committees: and senior management.
reporting and updates provided to the Board.
The Board noted in particular that the relevant committees had adapted well to the changes to their composition during the year and in 2015.
The Board also noted the efforts of the committees to streamline their arrangements, ensuring that the members of the management team who were invited to attend and present at the meetings did so in a concise and orderly fashion.
The Board reviewed its own membership and performance and this review was concluded in March 2015.
The Board focused primarily on the recent retirement of Bob Bowker and the skills, knowledge and experience that Bob provided to the Board.
The Board noted that Bob had been with the Company since 2008, serving as Chairman of the HSES Committee during that time.
The Nomination Committee had recommended that Trevor Schultz be appointed to replace Bob as HSES Committee chair.
The Board, whose views were supported by the Nomination Committee, were agreed that the Board continued to have the required breadth of expertise and there was no immediate need to seek a replacement for Bob Bowker.
