49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Maintaining high standards of corporate governance is fundamental to the Centrica way of business and is key to our performance.
It helps us to do things in the right way and to make decisions effectively.
The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on a number of key matters.
Read more on page 62 During this transitional period, we were delighted to appoint I am pleased to present the governance Jeff Bell as Interim Chief Financial Officer and Ian Peters as Interim report which sets out the way we comply Managing Director, British Gas following the resignations of Nick Luff and Chris Weston during 2014.
Jeff and Ian have been with good corporate governance principles, appointed to the Executive Committee and bring with them a the work of the Centrica Board and its wealth of experience having both been with Centrica since 2002.
Committees and our approach to risk The Board considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital to the Group delivering its strategic objectives.
Towards the end management and internal control.
of the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own The Group relies on a robust governance performance.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, this was externally facilitated and the findings provided a clear framework to support the organisation agenda for Board development.
More detail can be found on and responsibility for its delivery lies with page 52 of the Governance Report.
It is likely that as the refreshed Board settles in 2015, we will once again seek to hold an external the Board.
review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees towards the end of the year.
How we work is important for ensuring the continuing success of Centrica and the delivery of long-term sustainable value The Corporate Governance Report that follows has been creation for all of Centricas stakeholders.
I firmly believe that good prepared in order to provide shareholders with a comprehensive corporate governance is an important enabler to the success understanding of Centricas governance framework and has been and reputation of the Group and provides the framework for the prepared to meet the requirements of the Code, the Listing Rules way in which we conduct our business and deliver our strategic and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and remains Rick Haythornthwaite committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Chairman 19 February 2015 As I discussed in greater detail in my Chairmans Statement, during the year we have seen a number of changes to the Board constitution with Sam Laidlaw retiring as Chief Executive at the end of 2014 together with Mary Francis and Paul Rayner retiring as Non-Executive Directors.
We were delighted to welcome Iain Conn onto the Board as Chief Executive from the beginning of this year.
Carlos Pascual also joined us as a Non-Executive Director from 1 January 2015 and as announced on 18 February 2015, Steve Pusey has been appointed a Non-Executive Director from 1 April 2015.
In addition, Ian Meakins was appointed as our Senior Independent Director.
I look forward to working with them in driving excellence in governance both in the boardroom and throughout the Group.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Corporate governance compliance Board meetings As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, Centrica is The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
bound by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A copy In 2014, the Board met nine times.
of the Code is available at frc.
The Board confirms that The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities and throughout the financial year ended 31December2014 and as at the business issues for the Group over the short, medium and long date of this report, the Company has complied with the provisions of term.
Comprehensive papers are presented to the Board which the Code.
As reported in our 2013 Annual Report, Mary Francis and facilitate meaningful debate on the performance and the future Paul Rayner continued in post for 2014 beyond their nine-year terms direction of the Company.
However, the Board felt that their continued service was of great benefit to the Board during a transitional period and that All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant both these Non-Executive Directors continued to demonstrate Committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board independence and judgement in carrying out their roles.
Both meetings during 2014 are set out in the table below and attendance Mary Francis and Paul Rayner stepped down as Directors of the at Committee meetings is included on pages 53 to 62.
Director was not in attendance, this was due to other prior work commitments.
Directors who were unable to attend specific Board This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of or Committee meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided the Code and the extent to which the Company complied with their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee, as the provisions of the Code in the year to 31December2014.
In addition, any Director who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for The Board future reference.
Board of Directors The Board believes that good corporate governance is central to Number Meetings contributing to Centricas performance.
A clearly defined framework of meetings attended of roles, responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and Rick Haythornthwaite 9 9 this supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable growth for the Margherita Della Valle 9 9 benefit of shareholders, employees and customers.
The powers of i Mary Francis 9 8 the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which are available on the Companys website.
The Mark Hanafin 9 9 i Articles may be amended by special resolution.
In addition, the Sam Laidlaw 9 9 Directors have responsibilities and duties under legislation, in Lesley Knox 9 9 particular the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Ian Meakins 9 7 ii The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for Nick Luff 6 6 its approval which is reviewed annually to ensure best practice.
Mike Linn 9 8 A summary is shown below and the full schedule is available i Paul Rayner 9 9 on our website.
The Board also delegates other matters to Board iii Chris Weston 9 9 Committees and management as appropriate.
i Mary Francis, Sam Laidlaw and Paul Rayner retired as Directors on 31 December 2014. ii Nick Luff resigned as a Director on 31 August 2014.
The Board is responsible for: iii Chris Weston resigned as a Director on 30 December 2014. development of strategy and major policies: Board constitution and appointments the Groups corporate governance and systems of internal control: During the year under review, there were a number of changes to the reviewing performance: Board.
Both Nick Luff and Chris Weston resigned as Directors on approving interim dividend payments and recommending final 31 August 2014 and 30 December 2014 respectively.
Sam Laidlaw, dividend payments: Paul Rayner and Mary Francis retired as Directors of the Company approval of the annual operating plan, Financial Statements on 31 December 2014.
As announced in December 2014, and major acquisitions and disposals: Ian Meakins succeeded Mary Francis to become the Companys Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2015. the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including health, safety and environmental matters: and Iain Conn was appointed as a Director of the Company and became the appointment and removal of Directors and the Chief Executive on 1 January 2015.
In addition, Carlos Pascual Company Secretary.
was appointed as a Director of the Company with effect from 1 January 2015.
On 18 February 2015, it was announced that As part of its responsibilities, the Board approves and monitors Steve Pusey would be appointed as a Director of the Company the development of the Groups strategy.
At its 2014 strategy with effect from 1 April 2015. conference, the Board reviewed the progress against strategic priorities and debated the challenges within our current markets.
Key strategic considerations included: the competitive landscape and market conditions: a discussion on the outlook for global gas markets, and the UK and US energy markets: a review of the Groups long-term financial profile, and the recommended portfolio direction based on identified growth options: and consideration of the options for further midstream growth while ensuring adequate controls for risk management.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during the The Board comprises a balance of Executive Directors and selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors to the independent Non-Executive Directors which promotes thorough Board.
This process is described in the section on the Nominations debate and consideration of the important issues facing Centrica Committee on page 60. and the Groups performance.
At present, there are a total of eight Directors of which two are Executive and five are Non-Executive, in The Act and the Articles require the Board to consider any potential addition to our Chairman.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive conflicts of interest.
The Board considers and, if appropriate, are separate, formalised in writing and have been approved by the authorises each Directors reported actual and potential conflicts of Board.
A summary of these roles is shown below and details are interest regularly.
The conflicts of interest register is reviewed at least available on the Companys website, together with an explanation annually by the Board.
Each Director abstains from approving their of the roles of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and management of The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for the Board.
In doing so, he is responsible for promoting high ethical reappointment at each AGM.
standards and best practice in corporate governance and ensures Details of the Directors of the Company are set out with their the effective contribution of all Directors.
Details of Directors service The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive leadership and contracts or letters of appointment, in the case of Non-Executive day-to-day management of the Company, to ensure the delivery Directors, emoluments and share interests are set out in the of the strategy agreed by the Board.
Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 81.
Copies of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment for the Non-Executive The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Directors are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors, and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
as well as shareholders, as required.
On the appointment of Rick Haythornthwaite as Chairman of the Board performance Company in January 2014, the Board considered that he met Board development the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The role of our All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive Non-Executive Directors is to challenge the Board and to help induction programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
The develop proposals on strategy for the business.
All of our Chairman and General Counsel & Company Secretary are Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent and responsible for delivering an effective induction programme for newly free from any business interest which could materially interfere with appointed Directors.
the exercise of their judgement.
In addition, all of our Non-Executive Iain Conn and Carlos Pascual, both recently appointed to the Board, Directors have assured the Board that they remain committed to discussed with the General Counsel & Company Secretary what their respective roles and, having considered these assurances, briefings and meetings would be most beneficial to them to ensure the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director is able to an effective induction following their appointments on 1 January 2015. dedicate the necessary amount of time to the Companys affairs.
As a result, tailored induction programmes have been designed for They form the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
both Iain Conn, Carlos Pascual and Steve Pusey which will include We have sought to ensure we have a balanced Board where briefings from members of the Executive team on key areas of the individual merit and relevance are the key entry requirements but business including the internal audit function, an overview of the collectively we have an appropriate mix of gender, nationalities and Groups risk management processes, the key risks facing the skills to ensure constructive debate and thoughtful decision making.
business, site visits and a briefing in respect of the corporate In addition, we believe it is important to maintain a blend within the governance framework within Centrica.
Non-Executive group where some are in full-time executive Ongoing development and training is also provided to all Directors, employment and others are pursuing a portfolio non-executive as agreed with the Chairman, at Board and Committee meetings.
During the year, Directors received regular updates and During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including the presentations on changes and developments to the business and Chairman, met independently of management.
In addition, to the legislative and regulatory environments in which the Group the Senior Independent Director met with the independent operates.
In particular, the Board was briefed on the following key Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman to issues during 2014: appraise the Chairmans performance.
UK Energy Sector updates: North American market developments: Barrow terminal optimisation project: initiatives on relationships with customers: implications of the review of the Competition and Markets Authority investigation into the energy industry: company law, corporate governance, reporting and remuneration reporting developments: and health, safety and environmental governance and strategy.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the The evaluation was set against a background of change at Board General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible for level during the previous 12 months.
Recognising that it may take some time for the new Board to settle, it may be appropriate to advising the Board through the Chairman on corporate governance conduct a further external evaluation towards the end of the year.
They are also able to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in respect of their duties.
Each of the Board Committees has also reviewed the outcome from the evaluation in 2014.
These reviews identified a number of areas of Board evaluation good practice and a number of areas that could be improved but no Our policy over many years has been to conduct a thorough review material issues were found.
Independent Audit Limited have no other of Board process, practice and culture on an annual basis with the connection to the Company.
input of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
The Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees Balance and independence of the Board and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance.
As part of the evaluation process, the Board considers the balance On each occasion, the Board has received positive reports and of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure the has adopted recommendations to improve Board, Committee Board and Committees effectively discharge their duties and and individual Director performance.
As part of its annual review of corporate governance, The Boards review of its effectiveness was facilitated by the Board considered the independence of each Non-Executive Independent Audit Limited using their Thinking Board online Director, other than the Chairman, against the criteria in the Code assessment service.
Their facilitation helped ensure that our review and determined that each Non-Executive Director remained was rigorous and covered the important influences on the Boards independent.
It is important that the Directors have a varied range effectiveness.
As independent advisers, they discussed with us the of skills and experience to ensure they can exercise their focus and coverage of our Board and Committee questionnaires, independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance and administered the questionnaires on a confidential basis, analysed resources.
Details of Directors skills and experience can be found the results independently from the Board and management, and on pages 46 and 47. presented the findings and their suggestions in a paper which Directors indemnities and insurance was discussed with the Chairman and provided to all Directors.
In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed The external facilitator also reviewed the Companys Board minutes of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and for the previous 12 months and conducted face-to-face interviews members of the Executive Committee.
Qualifying third-party with relevant Directors, the General Counsel & Company Secretary indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act were in and Centricas external audit partner.
force during the year ended 31December2014 and remain in force.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Board governance structure BOARD OF DIRECTORS Audit Nominations Remuneration Corporate Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Management Committee Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman of the Board Committees Board, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel & The Board currently operates six Committees to oversee the Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit, none of whom standards of the Group: Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, do so as of right.
Other senior executives will attend as required to Corporate Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure.
The Board provide information on matters being discussed which fall into their is currently reviewing the Board Committees structure in order area of responsibility.
The external auditors,  to ensure there is a thorough assessment of both financial and PwC, also attend each meeting.
The Committee meets individually non-financial risk and associated issues.
with the external auditors and the Internal Audit Chief Operating The independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the Audit, Officer at each meeting without Executives present.
The Committees are The Committee members participated in two training sessions supported in the same way as the Board in order to ensure during the year: one in July 2014 focusing on Ofgems Standards information flows in a timely, accurate and complete manner.
of Conduct and one in November 2014 in respect of the Market Risk The Board reviews each Committees terms of reference and Management of LNG and other long-term contracts.
membership against best practice as well as taking into account any relevant changes in circumstances.
The roles and responsibilities for Responsibilities of the Audit Committee: each Committee are set out in formal terms of reference which are to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in effective approved by the Board and are available on our website.
A review of governance of the Companys financial reporting, internal controls the Committee structure is underway in early 2015 in order to ensure and risk management: a thorough assessment of financial and non-financial risks and issues.
to provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors understandable and provides all the necessary information for and the Chairman of each Committee provides regular updates to shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business the Board.
model and strategy: A chart setting out the Companys Board and Executive monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Committees structure can be found on page 52.
The responsibilities Groups internal audit function, including its strategic focus, of each Board Committee, its membership and the key issues activities, plans and resources: considered by each one during 2014 are set out in the following the appointment and removal of the Head of Internal Audit: Committee reports.
managing the relationship with the Groups external auditors on Audit Committee behalf of the Board including the policy on the award of non-audit Role of the Committee services: The Committees key function is to support the Board in fulfilling conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every its responsibilities in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys 10 years and make appointment recommendations to the Board: financial reporting, internal controls and risk management.
As part of this role, the Committee provides advice to the Board on whether consider and review legal and regulatory compliance issues: and the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, to establish and oversee whistleblowing and fraud prevention balanced and understandable and provides all the necessary arrangements within the Group.
information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Key issues considered by the Audit Committee: review of the 2013 preliminary results, the 2013 Annual Report Membership and attendance during the year: and Accounts and 2014 half-year results: Number Meetings consideration of updates to the Code and its application to the of meetings attended 2013 Annual Report and Accounts: Margherita Della Valle Chairman 4 4 assessment of the effectiveness of Internal Control: i Mary Francis 4 4 review and approval of audit and non-audit fees: Lesley Knox 4 4 consideration and recommendation that the accounts, when Mike Linn 4 3 taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: Ian Meakins 4 4 review of effectiveness of external auditors PwC : i Paul Rayner 4 4 review of Group Assurance Report and Group Compliance i Mary Francis and Paul Rayner stepped down from the Committee on 31December 2014.
Report: Margherita Della Valle, as Group financial controller of Vodafone consideration of adherence across the Group with regulatory Group plc, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant and compliance requirements, including the undertakings in financial experience as required by the Code.
In addition, Paul Rayner respect of Centrica Storage Limited: who served on the Committee during the year was considered by the review of internal audit activity: Board to have recent and relevant financial experience having held consideration of whether the judgements, estimates and several senior financial positions.
Carlos Pascual was appointed assumptions used in the presentation of the Financial to the Committee on 1January2015 and Steve Pusey will join the Statements were reasonable and consistent: and Committee on 1 April 2015.
Each member of the Committee is an independent Non-Executive Director who has a wide range of regular updates of cases reported to the Companys relevant business experience.
Further details regarding the Directors Speak Up helpline.
skills and experience can be found in their biographies on page 47.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee has the resources and expertise to fulfil its responsibilities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In addition, to ensure the independence of the external auditors Risk management and internal controls and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Further details of risk management and internal controls are set Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting out on pages 57 to 59.
Practices Board and as a matter of best practice, PwC have Internal audit confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company, in a letter The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the addressed to the Directors.
Together with PwCs confirmation and operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, report on their approach to audit quality and transparency, the including its strategic focus, activities, plans and resources.
Committee concluded that PwC demonstrated appropriate The appointment and removal of the Head of Internal Audit qualifications and expertise and remained independent of the is also a matter for the Committee.
Group and that the audit process was effective.
The Groups internal audit three-year plan for the period 2015 to 2017 Non-audit fees was approved by the Committee, which was primarily risk-based and In order to preserve the independence of the external auditor, the also focused on the assurance of core processes.
The Committee Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit also reviewed staffing levels and qualifications to ensure these were services to the external auditors.
A copy of this policy is available appropriate and adequate for the delivery of the plan.
The award of non-audit work, within permitted categories, is subject to pre-clearance by the Committee, should During the year, the Committee received regular reports the fees in a given year exceed a specified threshold.
All significant summarising the findings from the Groups internal audit functions non-audit work is tendered and where PwC were appointed, it work and action plans to resolve any highlighted areas.
was considered that their skills and experience made them the The Committee monitored the progress of the most significant most appropriate supplier of the work.
Significant engagements action plans to ensure these were completed satisfactorily.
undertaken during 2014 included tax compliance and advice on corporate finance support for acquisitions and disposals.
The Boards review of the system of internal controls On a quarterly basis, the Committee is provided with reports of all Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors and a full throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
A summary of fees paid to and compliance with the Groups business principles and policies the external auditors is set out in note S9 to the Financial Statements.
Self-certification is completed both at the half year and full year.
The results of the annual process, together with the Appointment of the external auditors conclusions of the internal reviews by internal audit, inform the PwC have been the external auditors of the Group since the annual assessment performed by the Audit Committee.
demerger of British Gas in 1997.
In accordance with the Code, the Group expects to perform an audit tender before 2017, but will External auditors continue to monitor the implications from any potential new corporate The Committee manages the relationship with the Groups external governance guidance or changes in business requirements.
As in auditors on behalf of the Board.
The Committee considers annually past years, at the Committees request, and following PwCs review the scope, fee, performance and independence of the external of prior year audit, they presented a formal audit plan and fee auditors as well as whether a formal tender process is required.
PwC were reappointed auditors of the Group at the AGM held in May 2014.
Following a full review and having given full consideration to the performance and independence of the external auditors, the The Board considers it of prime importance that the external Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard reappoint PwC be proposed at the 2015 AGM and the Board has against this being compromised, the Committee implemented accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
and monitors a policy on the independence of external auditors.
This policy details the process for the appointment of the external Audit information auditors, the tendering policy, the provision of non-audit services, Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of the the setting of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff.
Annual Report and Accounts confirms that, so far as they are aware, There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups there is no relevant audit information of which PwC are unaware choice of external auditors.
and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information Effectiveness and independence of the external and to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
auditors To assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment of PwC.
This included a review of the report issued by the audit quality review team regarding PwC and an internal questionnaire completed by Committee members and relevant members of management on their views of PwCs performance.
The questionnaire covered a review of the audit partner and team, the audit approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and objectivity and robustness of challenge of management.
The feedback received was reviewed by management and reported to the Committee and the Board.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Key judgements and financial reporting matters Audit Committee reviews and conclusions in 2014 The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the carrying and Impairment of goodwill, upstream gas and oil assets, recoverable value of the assets and the key judgements and estimates power generation assets and storage facility assets used.
At the year end it concluded pre-tax impairments of Centrica Energy The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether upstream gas and oil assets of 1,189million relating to the Trinidad and the carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable.
These judgements Tobago gas assets 309million, UK and Norwegian gas and oil assets include primarily the achievement of Board approved business plans, 837million and Canadian upstream assets 43million were required, long-term projected cash flows, generation and production levels primarily due to declining market gas and oil prices.
Reductions in forecast including reserve estimates and macroeconomic assumptions such capacity market auction prices and shorter-term baseload power prices, as the growth and discount rates and long-term commodity and capacity have led the Committee to conclude pre-tax impairments of the Groups auction prices used in the valuation process.
In the forecasts, where power assets were also required.
These related to the UK gas-fired power forward market prices are not available, prices are determined based stations of 535million a 13million charge was also recognised in other on internal model inputs.
comprehensive income and the Nuclear investment in associate of 214million.
The Committee reviewed the recoverable amount of all other significant balance sheet assets and concluded they had recoverable values in excess of the carrying value and were not impaired.
The external auditors held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements and assumptions used in the impairment tests and provided their own analytical report.
The Committee also noted that the proposed disposal of Langage, Humber and Killingholme power stations was not highly probable at the year end and accordingly the assets were no longer classified as held for sale.
Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 on pages 110, 111, 145 and 146.
During the year, the decommissioning cost provision increased by Decommissioning costs 613million following the triennial review.
The increase was largely driven The Group makes significant judgements and estimates in determining by increased well cost estimates based on new internal and external the level of provision required for the Groups oil and gas field information.
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the decommissioning obligations.
The estimated cost of decommissioning key judgements and assumptions in establishing the Groups provision is based on reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet for decommissioning costs.
Third-party advisers assist management date.
The triennial review of decommissioning costs was performed in determining decommissioning costs.
The external auditors also in the Groups upstream business during the year.
provided detailed reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements and assumptions used.
The Committee requested management review the annual decommissioning update process prospectively and refine and reinforce this where necessary.
Further details on the decommissioning cost provision are provided in note 21 on page 128.
In the prior year the Committee received training on the classification Presentation of certain re-measurements of exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the and exceptional items income statement.
The Committee reviewed management reports The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business detailing the judgements regarding the appropriate presentation of items performance column of the Group Income Statement.
To be able to as certain re-measurements and exceptional items.
The Committee provide this clearly and with consistent presentation, the effects of certain considered the size, nature and incidence of these items and concluded re-measurements of financial instruments and exceptional items are that separate disclosure of these items was appropriate in the Financial reported separately in a different column in the Group Income Statement.
Exceptional items include the upstream gas impairments in the UK, Norway, North America and Trinidad and Tobago, impairment of the Groups investment in associate Nuclear and of its UK gas-fired power station assets, along with the gains on disposal of the Texas gas-fired power stations and the Ontario home services business in North America.
Further detail is provided in note 7 on page 110.
The Committee has reviewed and held discussions with the external Downstream revenue recognition auditors on the level of provisions made during the year.
The implementation The Groups revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate of of a new billing system in British Gas Business has meant that the energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading determination of the appropriate level of unbilled revenue and of bad debt and an estimated year-end meter reading.
It is estimated through the provisions has required more judgement than in previous years.
The billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer Committee has reviewed management reports detailing these judgements by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts and has concluded the level of provisions is adequate.
Further detail of and the differences between actual meter readings being returned and accrued energy income is provided in note 17 on page 124. system estimates.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow to the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent that the economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, revenue is not recognised.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Key judgements and financial reporting matters Audit Committee reviews and conclusions in 2014 The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key Determination of fair values for energy derivatives developments during the year and a summary of price changes and The fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America and drivers.
The Committee also reviewed the proposed valuation commodity Europe are based primarily on quoted market prices.
However, certain curves versus those of external third parties.
The Committee noted energy contracts extend beyond the active period of the market.
The fair appropriate control improvements being implemented in North America value of contracts are determined by reference in part to published price to address a control weakness identified in the IAS 39 reporting process.
quotations in active markets where they exist and in part by using The external auditors also provided detailed reporting and held valuation techniques based on commodity prices derived using discussions with the Committee on the potential impact of changes assumptions that are based on internal market expectations and in the commodity curves.
More detail on the assumptions used in expected volumes, discounted using an average discount rate.
determining fair valuations is provided in note S6 on page 158.
A significant number of judgements and assumptions are used in deriving future commodity curves.
A review and discussion of provisions with management was undertaken Onerous contracts by the Committee and by the external auditors, including the utilisation The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the and release of existing provisions and any new provisions made during unavoidable costs of meeting specific obligations exceed the associated the year.
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the future net benefits.
key judgements and estimates used.
Further detail on provisions and the assumptions used in determining the value is provided in note 3 on page 101 and note 21 on page128.
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the valuations Business combinations and the key judgements and estimates including the main assumptions During the year, the Group acquired Bord Gis Energys gas and and the discount rates used in valuing the customer relationships and electricity supply and generation business in the Republic of Ireland.
The Committee also approved the Business combinations require a fair value exercise to be undertaken disclosures in note 12.
The external auditors provided detailed reporting to allocate the purchase price cost to the fair value of the acquired and held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements and identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and goodwill.
Further details on business combinations are set result of the nature of fair value assessments in the energy industry, out in note 12 on pages 116 and 117. this purchase price allocation exercise requires subjective judgements based on a wide range of complex variables at a point in time.
Specifically, judgement is required in valuing the customer relationships and the gas-fired power station.
The Committee reviewed and approved the key assumptions and Pensions disclosures in the Financial Statements.
Independent actuaries are The cost, assets and liabilities associated with providing benefits under defined consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions and discussions benefit schemes is determined separately for each of the Groups schemes.
are held with the external auditors.
Further details on pensions are set Judgement is required in setting the key assumptions used for the actuarial out in note 22 on pages 129 to 133. valuation which determines the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, especially given the length of the Groups expected liabilities.
The Committee reviewed managements funding forecasts and sensitivity Going concern and liquidity risk analysis and the impact of various possible adverse events including The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position significant commodity price movements and credit rating downgrades.
due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash.
The external auditors also provide detailed reporting and held To mitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains discussions with the Committee.
Following the review, the Committee significant committed facilities.
The Group regularly prepares an recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement assessment detailing these available resources to support the going in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
Further details on sources of concern assumption in preparing the Financial Statements.
finance are set out in note 24 on pages 136 to 138.
The Committee reviewed the Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement and the key judgements and disclosures made in its preparation.
The The Group is required to prepare an annual regulatory statement external auditors also provided a detailed report and held discussions Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS for Ofgem which breaks with the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the Basis of Preparation down our licensed activities for the financial year into a generation, of the CSS and were satisfied with this years disclosure, including any domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas result.
The CSS is changes in methodology.
The full CSS and the independent audit opinion reconciled to our externally reported IFRS Annual Report and Accounts.
approved by the Committee for publication are set out on pages 176 The Group publishes the CSS at the same time as our full year Annual to 186.
Report and Accounts and the CSS is independently audited.
In preparing the CSS, judgement is required in the allocation of non-specific costs between domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas and the distinction between licensed and non-licensed activities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 P o l i c i e s & p r o y c t e P i e r d r t o C f n u o g o r h e r n m n t i e m t n t i a u d n r n s s u a o a c a l s l p e l e a 57 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Governance, risk and control The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic priorities.
The Board supports this by maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal control.
The following diagram shows some of the key elements in the governance framework by which our operations are conducted: BOARD the work of the Board and its Committees are at the heart of AND COMMITTEES this process and set: objectives: performance targets and their definitions: and policies.
designed to: achieve a balanced and transparent approach to the management of risks facing our operations.
underpinned by: We have processes in place for identifying, evaluating and managing a clear delegation of authority: principal risks to the achievement of our strategic priorities.
These Group policies covering key areas of our operation: and processes are reinforced through regular performance management.
They are subject to internal and external review, to identify areas a set of business principles which are communicated to where we can further enhance our risk management activities, as our employees.
well as to provide us with an independent and impartial assessment of the effectiveness of the control framework.
We operate a three lines of defence model, which enables accountability for risk management and the control environment within Centrica.
Integrated assurance operating model BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE Business policies Assurance over policy compliance 1st line of defence: business operations Implement the business risk policy, covering strategic and operational objectives Operate controls as designed Risk and control advice Risk and control assurance 2nd line of defence: risk, control and monitoring functions Provide assurance over business risk management process Provide assurance over controls 3rd line of defence: Internal Audit Provide independent assurance over both 1st and 2nd line risk and control processes Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 d c s a n m i r s c g e e a t t e a n n t i t I a v a a k r g i t t s P g e i S i e m R e e s e l o n e t p D l e & v a l u e s 58 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The 1st line of defence is the implementation by business unit greater interaction with specialist risk areas, such as Information management teams of the policies approved by the Board.
Security and Health, Safety, Environment and Security, allowing for a more consistent approach to risk identification and reporting: The 2nd line of defence involves risk and control teams and other greater engagement with the Executive Committee through monitoring functions.
They help with policy implementation, and changes to the Group risk report with inclusion of more diverse provide assurance to business unit management over policy analysis: and compliance and the related controls.
increased resourcing in a number of 2nd line of defence functions.
The 3rd line of defence is the Internal Audit team, which independently assesses the risks and controls designed and Improvements for 2015 implemented by the 1st line of defence, and the assurance In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC replaced provided by the 2nd line of defence, and reports those results the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors 2005 and Going to the Audit Committee.
Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors 2009 with one set of integrated guidance, The UK Corporate Governance Code As with any such system, the processes are designed to manage 2014.
The changes and additions to the Code require us to rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the objectives and formulate a programme of work to ensure compliance.
This will form can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the basis for a proportion of our improvement activity during 2015, material misstatement or loss.
specifically with an articulation of the Groups risk appetite for our Details of our principal risks and uncertainties, both short and principal risks.
Outside of this, we will continue to improve our risk long term, are set out in pages 40 to 45 of the Strategic Report.
management processes with a number of initiatives, including: Improvements in 2014 scheduled refresh of our risk management and control policies, Throughout 2014 we continued to develop an integrated approach standards, guidelines and assessment matrices: to our risk and assurance activities.
Specifically the following a review of the existing governance structure and relationship of improvements were implemented: all risk committees to the Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, including a terms of reference review: and development of a risk universe designed to ensure a more consistent and comprehensive approach to risk identification: integration of Bord Gis Energy with the Groups risk management process.
improved and more explicit consideration of business risk as part of our capital allocation framework process: refresh of our process, to identify and assess Black Swan and High Impact Low Likelihood risks: Group risk governance structure European & North American Group Financial Risk Financial Risk Management Executive Committee Management Committees Committee Group Risk Business Risk BOARD OF Management Management Committee DIRECTORS Committee Centrica Controls Steering Group Centrica Controls Audit Committee Board Information Risk Steering Group Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Risk Management Committee Executive Committee and Audit Committee The GRMC plays a pivotal role in the governance of risk.
Each of Our principal risks are reported to the Executive Committee via the our business units has a dedicated Business Risk Management GRMC.
In addition, the Executive Committee regularly undertakes Committee, or equivalent, whose role is to evaluate, report and in-depth reviews of specific risks as appropriate.
advise on principal risks and to consider the adequacy of controls At each of its meetings in 2014 the Audit Committee received a risk and the actions planned to mitigate those risks.
The most material update as part of an overall Group assurance report.
This provided risks are then reported to the GRMC so that it has a clear an assessment of the key principal risks facing the Company, understanding of our aggregate risk profile and can ensure that including those that would threaten the business model, future control processes are in place for the management of these risks.
performance, solvency or liquidity, and the adequacy of the The GRMC is chaired by the Chief Executive and membership associated controls.
The Audit Committee assessed findings from reflects that of the Executive Committee.
In 2014, the GRMC met reviews conducted by the Internal Audit team in accordance with four times.
These reports, supplemented by management presentations and discussion with the Audit Committee, enable it to Group Financial Risk Management Committee track issues, monitor performance and ensure that necessary action The Group Financial Risk Management Committee GFRMC is taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
focuses specifically on financial risk market, credit, liquidity risks and operational risks within the trading operations.
The Company is also aware that the integrity and reputation of our public financial reporting is of utmost importance.
In addition to the Additional monitoring of our financial risk is performed by local controls described above, there are a number of further processes Financial Risk Management Committees.
Material financial risk to provide assurance over the completeness and accuracy of our exposures are reported to the GFRMC for consideration.
The public financial reporting, including: GFRMC monitors the design and implementation of financial risk policies and compliance with Group-wide financial risk limits and review by members of the Executive Committee: appetite.
Quarterly overviews of the GFRMCs activity are provided verification exercises: to the GRMC.
review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and The GFRMC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and review and approval by the Board.
membership comprises senior finance and risk personnel.
Further details of the Groups Centrica Storage and other Group companies financial risk management are provided in note S3 to the Financial Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject to undertakings given Statements on pages 150 to 154. to the UK Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, operates separately but to the same standards of internal control Centrica Controls Board and risk management as the rest of the Group.
The internal control The Centrica Controls Board CCB is responsible for ensuring that and risk management processes of newly acquired companies are appropriate internal controls are in place over key operational and also integrated with those of the Group.
financial reporting processes and related IT systems.
The CCB met four times in 2014 and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer The Boards review of the system of risk management and membership comprises, the Director of Corporate Finance, the and internal control Head of Risk and Controls and finance directors for each business Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates unit.
The responsibilities of the CCB are discharged through the throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of risk Centrica Controls Steering Group CCSG and the Information Risk management and internal control and compliance with Group Steering Group IRSG.
business principles and policies are assessed.
The self-certification was completed at the half year and full year.
The results of the The CCSG met three times during 2014 and is chaired by the Group self-certifications, together with the conclusions of the reviews by Head of Risk and Controls.
the Internal Audit team, inform the annual assessment performed The IRSG monitors our control environment for information systems, by the Audit Committee.
providing robust challenge to the business units to ensure that risk The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed management remains effective and appropriate.
the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal The IRSG met four times during 2014 and is chaired by the Group control, for the period from 1 January 2014 to the date of this report Head of Information Risk.
and is satisfied that the Group complies with the FRCs Guidance.
The Board will continue to routinely challenge management in order to ensure that the system of risk management and internal control is constantly improving and remains fit for purpose.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED a preferred candidate recommendation was made by the Nominations Committee Committee to the Board for consideration: and Rick Haythornthwaite became Chairman of the Committee on 1January2014.
the Board considered and approved the appointments.
The Committee ensures there is a formal and appropriate procedure None of the executive search agents listed above provide any for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Committee other services to the Company.
is responsible for leading this process and making recommendations Diversity to the Board.
Carlos Pascual was appointed to the Committee on Centrica is committed to the merits of diversity in all its forms at 1January2015 and Steve Pusey will be appointed on 1 April 2015.
Board level and throughout the Group.
As at 31 December 2014, Membership and attendance during the year: 33% of the Board were women, although due to the Board changes that took place in January 2015 this figure reduced to 25%.
Centrica Number of Meetings is committed to maintaining its current level of women on the Board meetings attended and would increase the percentage if the skills, experience and i Rick Haythornthwaite 8 8 knowledge of the individual were appropriate and in keeping with Margherita Della Valle 8 7 the business needs.
ii Mary Francis 8 7 Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where Lesley Knox 8 7 decisions are based on individual ability and potential in relation Mike Linn 8 4 to the business needs.
We are committed to promoting equal Ian Meakins 8 7 opportunities and diversity as part of creating an inclusive working ii Paul Rayner 8 7 environment that attracts and retains the best people and that enables everyone in Centrica to fulfil their potential.
Individuals i Rick Haythornthwaite was appointed as Chairman with effect from 1January2014.
ii M ary Francis and Paul Rayner stepped down from the Committee with effect from are treated in a non-discriminatory manner at all stages of their 31 December 2014. employment, including recruitment and selection, reward, training and development and promotion and career development.
In addition to the above meetings, the Committee met with the Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources to undertake a At senior management level, 27% are women, whilst 30% of succession review for senior management.
employees excluding the Board and senior management are women as indicated in the charts below.
Our senior management level Key issues reviewed by the Nominations Committee: includes categories of employees as defined in the Act.
During the review of Committee membership: year, Centrica was ranked as 19th in the 2014 Female FTSE 100 the appointment of Iain Conn, Carlos Pascual and Steve Pusey: Index, was recognised for its family-friendly policies in the 2014 Top consideration of exposure to loss of key personnel: Employers for Working Families Benchmark and received a special award for flexible working practices.
Centrica has various initiatives succession planning for the Chief Financial Officer: taking place relating to gender diversity.
These include coaching and succession planning for the British Gas MD: mentoring and the Pearls Programme which identified 25 women succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors: across the business to participate in a programme designed to deliver a review of Non-Executive Directors whose length of service a unique environment for growth and learning.
Centrica has partnered was more than six years: and with the Womens Oil Council which is a business network in the oil and gas industry and is working with the Womens Business Council a review of the skills of each of the Directors and the which makes recommendations to government and UK businesses independence of each of the independent Non-Executive on how womens contribution to growth can be optimised.
Directors prior to the 2014 AGM and recommendation that each of them be subject to re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Breakdown by gender Recruitment process Board Senior management Led by the Chairman the recruitment processes undertaken for the appointment of Iain Conn, Carlos Pascual and Steve Pusey were formal, rigorous and transparent.
The Committee appointed 335 3 27% several executive search agents to assist in the search for a new 33% Chief Executive, and both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
6 926 The agents engaged included Russell Reynolds Associates, The 67% 73% Zygos Partnership, JCA Group and Spencer Stuart.
The following process was undertaken for each assignment where an appointment was made: a job specification was prepared against which potential Other employees candidates were considered: the Committee considered the candidates against the objective criteria set out in the profile, having due regard for the benefits of Board diversity: 10,551 30% a shortlist of preferred candidates was selected from a list Men of candidates: 24,963 Women 70% the Committee appointed a sub-committee to have meetings with the shortlisted candidates: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centricas Group Director, Human Resources, Jill Shedden jointly Corporate Responsibility Committee hosted a roundtable meeting with the Womens Business Council The role of the Committee is to ensure that Centrica effectively of which she is a member in London to discuss the contribution manages its impact on society, the environment and the wider of older female workers to the economy.
The Executive Committee has overall responsibility for the opportunities and challenges faced in the recruitment, retention implementing Corporate Responsibility CR strategy across the Group.
and training of older women workers and the programmes that have The Committee members and their attendance during the year is been particularly effective.
The output of the discussions will help shown in the table below.
Meetings of the Committee are also inform the report that the government-appointed Business attended by the Chairman of the Board.
Champion for Older Workers, Dr Ros Altmann CBE, is due to present to the UK government this spring.
Number Meetings of meetings attended Remuneration Committee i Mary Francis Chairman 4 4 The role of the Committee is to determine and make recommendations i Sam Laidlaw 4 4 to the Board on the Companys policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Companys Executive Directors and Margherita Della Valle 4 4 other senior executives.
Grant Dawson 4 4 ii Chris Weston 4 4 Membership and attendance during the year: i Mary Francis and Sam Laidlaw stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2014. ii Chris Weston stepped down from the Committee on 30 December 2014.
Number Meetings of meetings attended Key issues reviewed by the Corporate Lesley Knox Chairman 10 10 Responsibility Committee: Margherita Della Valle 10 9 i developing the Groups strategy for CR: Mary Francis 10 10 reviewing the 2013 CR Report: Rick Haythornthwaite 10 10 assessment of the supply chain against CR criteria: and Mike Linn 10 9 reviewing key CR issues and initiatives in each business unit Ian Meakins 10 6 i including climate change, fuel poverty and energy efficiency.
Paul Rayner 10 9 i Mary Francis and Paul Rayner stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2014.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day Carlos Pascual was appointed to the Committee on 1January2015 management of the Groups operations within the limits set out and Steve Pusey will be appointed on 1 April 2015.
The Board has in the Groups delegation of authority.
The Committee also has a determined that each member of the Committee is independent.
schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval, including No Director is involved in the determination of, or votes on, any health, safety and environmental policies and standards.
matters relating to his or her own remuneration.
The Executive Committee met formally 11 times during the year with Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee: regular weekly meetings being held during the year as necessary.
to determine total individual remuneration packages and terms and conditions for the Board and senior executives: Membership and attendance during the year is set out below.
Badar Khan, President and CEO, Direct Energy, was appointed approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance to the Committee on 5 January 2015. related pay schemes for the Executive Committee and approve the total annual and long-term incentive plan payments: Number Meetings review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by of meetings attended i the Board and the Companys shareholders: and Sam Laidlaw Chairman 11 11 prepare and recommend to the Board for approval each year Grant Dawson 11 11 a report on remuneration policy and a separate report on the Mark Hanafin 11 11 implementation of the policy in the last financial year.
ii Nick Luff 7 7 Key issues reviewed by the Remuneration Committee: Jill Shedden 11 10 iii review and agree recommendation for 2015 remuneration policy: Chris Weston 11 10 iv Jeff Bell 4 4 arrangements for shareholder consultations and review feedback: v Ian Peters 1 1 consider and agree new Chief Executive reward arrangements: i Sam Laidlaw stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2014. ii Nick Luff stepped down from the Committee on 31 August 2014. agree arrangements for other Executive changes: iii Chris Weston stepped down from the Committee on 30 December 2014. iv Jeff Bell was appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2014. determine and review annual and long-term incentive plan targets: v Ian Peters was appointed to the Committee on 1 December 2014. updates on performance measures relating to short-term and Key issues reviewed by the Executive Committee: long-term share plans: the financial and operational performance of the business agree and recommend new incentive plans: against the operating plan: review Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme: and health and safety performance: human resourcing issues including key senior management monitor minimum shareholding updates.
changes and succession planning: Further details of the activities of the Committee are contained major proposed transactions together with announcements in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 81. regarding specific projects: and environmental and security updates.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity Disclosure Committee to develop further their understanding of the Company.
Shareholders The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the implementation and can ask questions of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, monitoring of systems and controls in respect of the management including the Annual Report and Accounts and the running of the and disclosure of inside information and for ensuring that regulatory Company generally.
The Company intends to send the Notice of announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and other AGM and any related papers to shareholders at least 20 working documents issued by the Company comply with applicable legal days before the meeting.
All Directors attend the AGM unless or regulatory requirements.
Committee Chairmen are normally Membership and attendance during the year: present to take questions at the AGM.
Number Meetings At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive present a review of meetings attended of the Groups business.
A poll is conducted on each resolution at all i Sam Laidlaw Chairman 11 8 Company general meetings.
All shareholders have the opportunity Grant Dawson 11 11 to cast their votes in respect of proposed resolutions by proxy, either ii electronically or by post.
Following the AGM, the voting results for Nick Luff 10 8 each resolution are published and are available on our website.
iii Jeff Bell 1 1 i Sam Laidlaw stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2014.
Ian Meakins, the Senior Independent Director, is available to ii Nick Luff stepped down from the Committee on 31 August 2014. shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal iii Jeff Bell was appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2014. channels has failed to resolve.
Iain Conn was appointed to the Committee on 1January2015.
Our website contains up-to-date information for shareholders and At each Executive Committee meeting, transactions or events were other interested parties including annual reports, shareholder considered against the disclosure obligations of the Company and circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to whether any matter was considered to be price sensitive.
the investment community and information on shareholder services.
Key issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee: Further details of material shareholdings in the Company are set a review of the preliminary announcement, the interim out on page 82. management statements and half-year results: Information included in the Directors Report consideration of the release of regulatory and Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate industry announcements: Governance Statement can be found in the Directors Report in key management changes: and the sections headed Material shareholdings, Share capital and announcements in respect of specific projects.
Repurchase of shares and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance Report by reference.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining Grant Dawson an effective investor relations and communication programme.
General Counsel & Company Secretary The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder 19 February 2015 views on a number of key matters affecting the Group and receives formal investor feedback regularly.
In 2014, Centricas shareholder engagement programme included: formal presentations for the announcement of the Groups 2013 preliminary and 2014 interim results: meetings between the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and the Companys major shareholders during the year: meetings between Iain Conn and the Companys major shareholders, as part of Iain Conns induction process: the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meeting with a number of the Companys major shareholders during the year to discuss the Companys remuneration arrangements: the Chairman and Senior Independent Director meeting with major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand understanding of their concerns and key issues and provide regular updates of these to the Board: and a meeting with our largest investors and leading proxy advisers to provide insight into the key focus and considerations of the Board and its Committees and a better understanding of the governance measures operating across the business.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
