80 Governance The Board Who we are The Non-Executive Directors You can read about the directors on the Board and the skills and A non-executive directors role is to experience they each bring to the Board on pages 78 and 79. r bring experience and independent judgement to the Board and The Board consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group r constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Finance Director and six non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
It is supported by the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Director Iain Conn will join the Board as an independent non-executive director The Senior Independent Director is an independent non-executive on 1{June 2014, increasing the number of non-executive directors director whose role is to to seven.
r meet with BTs major institutional shareholders and shareholder The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
representative bodies when requested and, if necessary, to discuss They are set out in written job descriptions, which have been revised, matters with them where it would be inappropriate for those reviewed and agreed during the year by the Nominating & discussions to take place with either the Chairman or the Chief Governance Committee.
They provide clarity on the distinct Executive and responsibilities of each role.
r act as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
The Board viewed the Chairman as independent at the time of his appointment.
All the non-executive directors met, and continue to meet, Nick Rose is the Senior Independent Director.
He took over from Patricia the criteria for independence set out in the Code and the Board therefore Hewitt on 24 March 2014. considers them to be independent.
The Board comprised a majority of independent non-executive directors throughout the year.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretarys role is to You can read about the roles of the Board members below.
r manage the provision of timely, accurate and considered information The Chairman to the Board The Chairmans role is to r recommend corporate governance policies and practices to the Chairman and the Chief Executive r lead the Board with a culture of openness, debate and appropriate r implement and communicate corporate governance policies across challenge the group and r promote the highest standards of corporate governance r advise the Board and its committees on corporate governance and r ensure that the Board determines the nature and extent of the compliance within the group, and appropriate procedures for the significant risks BT is willing to embrace in implementing its strategy management of their meetings and duties.
r ensure that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information and is consulted on all matters important to it The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for r monitor the contributions and performance of the Board members the whole Board.
r ensure that BT maintains eective communication with shareholders and communicate their views and concerns to the Board and What we have done r be a key contact for important stakeholders and, together with the The chart below shows how the Board allocated its time.
A number of Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, represent BT in key these areas are also considered by the Board committees.
Allocation of time The Chief Executive 3% 35% The Chief Executives role is to Other Business & CEO updates 10% r lead the performance and management of the group People, Health & Safety r propose strategies, business plans and policies to the Board 12% r implement Board decisions, policies and strategy Governance, r develop and promote compliance with BTs policies on conducting Risk & Audit business globally r maintain an eective framework of internal controls and risk management r lead the Operating Committee in the day-to-day running of the business end-to-end and r lead, motivate and monitor the performance of BTs senior management team, and focus on succession planning for roles on 19% 21% Finance & Investor Relations Strategy the Operating Committee.
The Board has a forward programme of business see below to ensure that it allocates sucient time to key areas and that the programme is suitably exible for items to be added to any particular agenda as necessary.
Governance 81 We include details of all directors contracts letters of appointment in The Boards annual programme includes the Report on Directors Remuneration.
r Chief Executives reports r Succession planning r Financial reports r Board evaluation Attendance at Board meetings r Strategy r Security updates The following table shows the attendance of each director at meetings r Line of business updates r Governance and compliance of the Board during the financial year.
The Chairman meets privately r Risk management r Approach to tax with the non-executive directors before each scheduled Board meeting.
r Dividend policy r Annual Report & Form 20-F If unable to attend a meeting, directors are encouraged to give the r Investor relations r Group communications overview Chairman their views and comments on matters to be discussed r Health, safety and well-being in advance.
Board members In addition, during the year we had in-depth discussions on our network Meetings and systems, BTs brand, our culture, BT TV and BT Sport, the groups mobility strategy and gave particular focus to customer service, which Member Eligible to{attend Attended we set out in more detail in the box below.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman 10 10 Customer service a Ian Livingston 66 We are committed to putting the customer first.
The Board has Gavin Patterson 10 10 continued to spend significant time on customer service throughout the year both in and outside of Board meetings with regular updates Tony Chanmugam 10 10 from the Chief Executive in his reports and as a regular item on the Boards agenda.
Tony Ball 10 10 b Warren East 11 During the year, the Board visited one of BTs major contact centres to see sales and service operations in action.
The Board met with c Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 10 10 agents and saw first-hand BTs strengths and areas which require continued focus.
A similar visit by the Board to look at Openreach Phil Hodkinson 10 10 customer service is scheduled for 2014.
Karen Richardson 10 10 Nick Rose 10 10 We approved a number of changes to our Board committees.
Tony Chanmugam became a member of the BT Pensions Committee Jasmine Whitbread 10 10 from 1{October 2013, and of the Committee for Sustainable and a Responsible Business on 10{December 2013.
Following Patricia Hewitts Ian ivingston retired from the Board on 10 September 2013. b Warren East joined the Board on 1 February 2014. retirement, Tony Ball and Phil Hodkinson were appointed chairmen c Patricia ewitt retired from the Board on 23 March 2014. of the Remuneration Committee and the BT Pensions Committee respectively.
With eect from 1{May 2014, Warren East was appointed The Chairman keeps under review the level of attendance and to the Audit & Risk and the BT Pensions Committees and contribution by directors at Board meetings, as well as their Karen Richardson to the Remuneration Committee.
During the year, he met with each director on an individual Following the recommendation of the Nominating & Governance basis and considers that each of them continues to make an eective Committee, we approved the extension of the appointments of Nick contribution to the Board debate across a wide range of issues and Rose and Jasmine Whitbread on the expiry of their first three-year terms, demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Chairman also reviews as detailed on page 86.
We also approved the extension of Baroness Jays with each director any training or development they need to assist membership of the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business them in performing their role.
Patricia Hewitt reviewed the Chairmans following the expiry of her second three-year term in January 2014. performance during the year, taking into account feedback from the other Board members, including from an internal evaluation exercise.
Director election and re-election Warren East and Iain Conn, having been appointed as directors by the Board induction Board since the last Annual General Meeting AGM, will retire at the On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme 2014 AGM and will be proposed for election as required by BTs Articles to increase their knowledge and understanding of the business.
All other directors will be proposed for re-election by They receive information about BT including financial data and the shareholders at the AGM in accordance with the Code.
key policies in support of BTs business practices.
They also receive details on the role of the Board, its terms of reference, membership of the Length of appointment of Chairman and non-executive directors main Board committees and the matters reserved for decision by the Board, the Board committees or BTs most senior executives.
Below is a summary of the induction programme for Warren East.
Phil Hodkinson Feb 2006 Sep 2007 Sir Michael Rake Induction for Warren East Following our announcement in October 2013 of Warren Easts Jul 2009 Tony Ball appointment to the Board, Warren has undertaken a comprehensive Jan 2011 Jasmine Whitbread induction programme.
This included Jan 2011 Nick Rose r meeting each line of business CEO to gain a good understanding of their business and challenges Nov 2011 Karen Richardson r briengs with the Company Secretary and other senior executives across a range of functions, such as finance, investor and media Feb 2014 Warren East relations, security and human resources 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 r a visit to BTs research laboratories at Adastral Park, Ipswich and Calendar year Governance 82 Governance Induction for Warren East cont.
Key areas Actions r briengs on BT policies on anti-corruption and bribery, gifts and hospitality, charitable donations, corporate sponsorship and The Board dynamics Way{We Work.
Continue the positive relationships A number of senior managers Warren will also be visiting BTs Newcastle contact centre to see between the Board and senior have attended and presented first-hand BTs customer service and will continue to be given management, with more at Board meetings during the opportunities to gain an insight into a range of areas of BTs business.
The Board collectively and individually met with a wide group BT organised a great process, arranging for me to meet many of the of BT people throughout the year.
Everyone has been very candid and We have scheduled a visit to an helpful in developing my understanding of the business.
Its really Openreach contact centre in the helped me to hit the ground running.
There are also regular talent breakfast meetings and the non-executive directors have Training and information a standing invitation to join the To build on the induction programme, directors receive further briengs Chairman at talent dinners with both to help in their own development and also to enhance their senior employees.
awareness of the dierent elements of the business.
All directors are encouraged to update regularly their skills and knowledge and the Board Board insight and individual directors receive ongoing training as required.
The key Receive more information on, and Customer service has been areas focused on this year are highlighted below have greater insight into, customer high on the Boards agenda service and competitor activity and there have been several Key areas Programme discussions on it during the year.
The Board is receiving greater Our business, the competitive Monthly written Investor Relations detail on competitor activity.
and regulatory environment, and and Analyst Relations report External advisors presented their other changes aecting the group written briengs and meetings perspective on the sector and on and the wider communications with senior executives.
the business environment at the industry Board strategy day in March 2014.
Legal and other duties and The Company Secretary provides Board committees obligations as a director of a briengs during the year on{any listed company developments in the legal, Remuneration Committee updates The committee chairman provides governance and compliance areas an update at the private sessions including reminders of continuing the Chairman has with the nonobligations and has follow-up executive directors.
Formal seminars were held during the year Strategic oversight covering accounting, governance and compliance and reporting Undertake further deep-dives into We have continued with deep-dive developments.
the key strategic questions discussions throughout the year during lunchtime Board slots.
Current activities A weekly written update to the There have been a number of BT non-executive directors from Sport updates at Board meetings the Chairman on key business and via telephone and written activities, high-level meetings briengs.
We held a Board strategy and relevant sector highlights.
day in March 2014 focusing on key strategic objectives.
Board evaluation Priorities for change The Chairman and Company Secretary carried out a Board evaluation in March and April 2013 through an electronic questionnaire.
We discussed To particularly focus on customer The Board has received regular the resulting report in May and noted that, overall, the results were service, BT{TV and BT Sport, BT updates on customer service, positive.
We also identied a number of improvements, and highlight Global Services, and organisational BT{TV, BT Sport and BT Global our actions in the key areas in the table below.
culture Services throughout the year and received a presentation Key areas Actions on organisational culture in early 2014.
Board expertise We have begun the triennial external evaluation of the Board for Continue to enhance the Boards We have held deep-dives on the knowledge of the various markets lines of business and the markets 2014 15.
This is being conducted by Lintstock, who also supply BT in which the group operates in which they operate.
with a database application which BT uses to meet the insider list requirements under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
You will nd further details on this evaluation process on page{87.
