90 Governance Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business Chairmans report Allocation of time 4% 35% Other Governance 12.5% Improving Lives 12.5% Connected Society Sir Michael Rake 15% 21% Our diverse membership brings a wide Volunteering Net Good range of views to support our strategic BT recognises the broader value it can deliver to society through its priority to be a responsible and sustainable people and its technology.
We annually approve its direct investment in responsible and sustainable business.
For the year 2013 14, we approved business leader.
an investment of 1% of adjusted profit before taxation, based on the 2012 13 group results.
This investment is split between programmes we{directly oversee and activities embedded in the lines of business.
Who we are BT Groups direct investment in sustainable and responsible business in I chair the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business CSRB.
2013 14 was 27.2m in time, cash and in-kind support.
The investment Our membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
Lord is split between volunteering and in-kind activities by BT employees, Michael Hastings stepped down after nine years of service and I would which{contributed 44%, and cash funding, which delivered 56%.
like to thank Michael for his significant contribution over this time.
We have continued to develop the strategy and provide high-level Committee members guidance for the three elements of the Better Future programme Connected Society, Net Good and Improving Lives.
Within the three Meetings elements, we have identied the need to shape the portfolio of activities Member Eligible to{attend Attended and focus on transformational projects that deliver in the communities Sir Michael Rake chairman 2 2 where BT operates.
BT is focusing its resources on a smaller number a of projects that can deliver the greatest value, and moving away from Clare Chapman 21 supporting multiple projects in a less substantial way.
b Tony Chanmugam 10 BTs employee volunteers underpin the three Better Future programme a Niall Dunne 22 elements.
BT benets from the promotion of volunteering opportunities c, d Lord Michael Hastings 11 because this increases employee engagement with its culture and its values.
Organisations supported by its volunteers benefit from access Phil Hodkinson 2 2 to skilled individuals at no cost to their organisation.
An example is the c Baroness Margaret Jay 22 BT{Troubleshooter programme which can be found at www.
com c Dame Ellen MacArthur 21 troubleshooter c Gavin Neath 22 Volunteering Gavin Patterson 2 2 BT actively encourages its people to get involved in their communities Jasmine Whitbread 2 2 and helps them by running a comprehensive set of volunteering a programmes.
In 2013 14, over 13,600 BT people volunteered more BT employee.
b Tony Chanmugam joined the committee on 10 December 2013. than 46,000 days, worth over 14m to those communities.
d ord Michael astings retired from the committee on 10 November 2013.
Volunteering is, of course, a discretionary activity and employees continue to volunteer individually as well as becoming involved with BTs wider activities.
All BT people can volunteer for up to three days What we have done a year.
We are proud of what they do these volunteers support more We met twice during the year and the chart opposite shows how than 1,300 unique charities and community groups across the globe.
we allocated our time to the dierent elements of the Better Future programme.
This reects our focus on the three elements of Better Future and the supporting theme of employee volunteering.
CSRB members also joined the many contributors at the 50th event of the BT Young Scientist and Technology Exhibition BTYSE in Dublin in We seek input from external stakeholders on the perception and progress of January 2014.
This exhibition promotes the study of science by school our Better Future programme.
BT hosted a two-day Better Future Forum to children across the island of Ireland.
The BTYSE is organised and staed specically communicate with our online stakeholders in July 2013.
CSRB by BT volunteers and is a great example of how BT people make a members attended the forum sessions and contributed to the debates.
ou can nd information on Better Future within the Better Future 5eport at www.
com betterfuturereport Sir Michael Rake Chairman of the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business Being a responsible and sustainable business leader is a strategic priority 7 May 2014 for BT.
This means more than just driving sustainable business practices in BTs own operations.
