Governance 83 Reports of the Board committees Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report Warren East joined the committee on 1 May 2014.
What we have done We met six times during the year and in addition we held a joint meeting with the Nominating & Governance Committee.
You can read about what we discussed at this joint meeting in the Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report on page 88.
The chart below shows how we allocated our time, including at the joint meeting.
We set time aside at each meeting to seek the views of the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
Nick Rose Allocation of Time 13% 28% Internal audit matters Financial matters This year the Audit 5isk Committee paid 15% External audit matters special attention to several overseas locations that are important to BT Global Services, including Italy and Brazil, to data security and to the increasing cyber security threat.
We have received detailed presentations 20% 24% from key personnel in each of these areas and Governance Risk and controls reviewed managementos mitigation plans.
The committee has an annual work plan.
This includes standing items that the committee considers regularly in addition to any specic Who we are matters that require the committees attention and topical items on I chair the Audit & Risk Committee.
Our membership and meeting which we have chosen to focus.
For example, in 2013 14 we asked attendance during the year are set out below.
The diverse backgrounds of management to provide us with greater analysis of our operations in the committee members and their combined skills and experience enable Latin America and reports on major contracts in BT Global Services, us to full the committees remit, as set out in its terms of reference.
customer data handling, data security and current trends on security We regularly meet with external experts frequently the big four risks facing BT.
We also requested a brieng in relation to the regulatory accounting rms to keep ourselves fully aware of market best practices.
financial statements, including areas of key judgement or estimate.
Although not members of the committee, the Company Secretary, Group Some of the more significant matters we discussed during the year are Finance Director, Deputy Finance Director, Director Group Financial set out below.
Control and Director Internal Audit attend each meeting as does the lead audit partner and representatives from our external auditors.
I meet with Financial reporting this group ahead of the meetings to review key areas for discussion with We the committee.
The external auditors are not present when we discuss r reviewed the Annual Report & Form 20-F, together with annual, their performance and or remuneration.
half-year and quarterly results announcements for recommendation We are keen to interact with senior managers below executive level to the Board and representatives from finance and internal audit attend meetings at r considered the appropriateness of the groups accounting policies and our invitation.
critical accounting estimates and judgements and r considered the Annual Report in the context of advising the Board that The Board has agreed that I have recent and relevant financial experience the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable view as required by the provisions of the Code and that I constitute an naudit of the business and its performance.
The processes and controls that committee financial expert for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
underpin our consideration include appropriate senior managers across After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we the business providing the content, having been fully briefed on the discussed.
nfair, balanced and understandable requirement a dedicated core team of senior managers responsible for overall co-ordination, consistency, Committee members and detailed review and challenge of content submissions verication Meetings of all facts, tested by the internal auditors conrmation from the line a of business CEOs, CFOs and key functional heads that they consider the Member Eligible to{attend Attended content in respect of their area of responsibility to be fair, balanced and Nick Rose chairman 7 7 understandable and the Disclosure Committees review and assessment of the Annual Report as a whole.
We also received an early draft of the b Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 76 report to enable timely review and comment, and all of this allowed us Karen Richardson 7 7 to provide positive assurance to the Board.
Jasmine Whitbread 7 7 The significant issues we considered in relation to the financial a statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 are set out below.
Includes a joint meeting with the Nominating Governance Committee in March 2014. b Patricia ewitt retired from the committee on 23 March 2014.
We have discussed these with the external auditors during the year Governance
