Directors Report continued Directors The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year and to the date of approval, except as noted of the financial statements were as follows: Philip Burks, Non-Executive Director resigned 19 July 2013 Tim Clark, Senior Independent Director Richard Cotton, Non-Executive Director James Gibson, Chief Executive Officer Georgina Harvey, Non-Executive Director appointed 1 July 2013 Steve Johnson, Non-Executive Director Adrian Lee, Operations Director Mark Richardson, Non-Executive Director John Trotman, Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Vetch, Executive Chairman Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election are set out on page 46 Directors indemnities The Company purchases liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Political contributions No political donations were made by the Company in either the current or preceding financial year.
Substantial shareholdings The Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company at 31 March 2014 and 19 May 2014.
Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights No.
of and issued ordinary shares share capital ordinary shares share capital 31 March 2014 31 March 2014 19 May 2014 19 May 2014 Blackrock inc 15,597,512 11.01% 15,630,434 11.04% Cohen & Steers Inc 11,139,992 7.87% 12,446,270 8.78% Nicholas Vetch 9,166,219 6.47% 9,166,219 6.47% Old Mutual PLC 8,789,612 6.21% 8,448,344 5.96% Standard Life Investments Limited 4,755,696 3.36% 6,068,064 4.28% State Street Global Advisors Limited 4,637,535 3.27% PGGM Investments 4,371,121 3.08% interest below notifiable level Purchase of own shares The Company was granted authority at the AGM in 2013 to purchase its own shares up to a total aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
That authority expires at this years AGM and a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
During the year the Company made no purchases of its own shares.
Employee consultation The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff who are encouraged to address queries to the Executive Directors.
The Directors executive meetings are frequently held in stores and in addition Directors and senior management visit the stores on a regular basis.
Furthermore, there are regular team briefings at store level to provide employees with information about the performance of and initiatives in their store.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups Intranet, including the e-publication of the Groups financial results and all press releases, the publication of a quarterly newsletter, and the publication of a weekly operations bulletin.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups performance through Employee Share Schemes and performance related bonuses.
34% of eligible employees participate in the Groups Sharesave Scheme.
The Groups recruitment policy is committed to promote equality, judging neither by race, nationality, religion, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, nor political opinion and to treat all stakeholders fairly.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
48 Human Rights Big Yellow respects Human Rights and aims to provide assurance to internal and external stakeholders that we are committed to human rights and the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We are committed to creating and maintaining a positive and professional work environment that reflects and respects the basic rights of freedom to lead a dignified life, free from fear or want, and where stakeholders are free to express their independent beliefs.
Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where decisions are made solely on the basis of individual capability and potential in relation to the needs of the business.
Auditor In respect of each Director of the Company, at the date when this report was approved, to the best of their knowledge and belief: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he might have reasonably been expected to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The auditor, Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Shauna Beavis Secretary 19 May 2014 49 Corporate Governance Report INTRODUCTION The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code that was issued in 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board also takes account of the corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
At Big Yellow, we aim to create a culture in which integrity, openness and fairness are rewarded.
We continue to review the composition of the Board to ensure that it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and balance for the effective stewardship of the Company.
In the year, Georgina Harvey joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Her skill set complements the existing Non-Executive Directors experience.
Philip Burks retired as a Non-Executive Director after 15 years with the Company, the first eight as an Executive Director.
The Board has overall responsibility for the manner in which your Company runs its affairs.
The Board has sought an external evaluation of its own effectiveness.
In the year, Lomond Consulting carried out a comprehensive review of the Boards performance.
Their findings are summarised on page 54.
Statement of compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2014, the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Statement about applying the principles of the Code The Company has applied the principles set out in the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out below and in the Nominations Committee Report, the Remuneration Report and the Audit Committee Report.
LEADERSHIP The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: the Chairmans role is to provide continuity, experience, governance and strategic advice, while the Chief Executive provides leadership, drives the dayto-day operations of the business, and works with the Chairman on overall strategy: the Chairman, working with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders: the Board believes that the Chairman and the Chief Executive work together to provide effective and complementary stewardship: the Chairman: takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board: and consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
the Chief Executive: manages the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day activities: prepares and presents to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value: sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver agreed strategy: and ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
The Board ensures that its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of management.
EFFECTIVENESS Composition of the Board The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the Board Composition, and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors.
There are five independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board, with Tim Clark being the Senior Independent Director.
The Company complies with the Combined Code in that at least half of The Board is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
All of the Non-Executive Directors bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to Board deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with Executive Directors between formal Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
They are required to satisfy themselves on the integrity of the financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors, and in succession planning.
50 The tenure of independent Non-Executive Directors at 31 March 2014 is set out below: 0.7 Georgina Harvey 1.7 Richard Cotton 3.6 Steve Johnson 5.7 Tim Clark 5.8 Mark Richardson 02 1 3 45 6 years THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Standing committees of the Board The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, each of which has written terms of reference.
They deal clearly with the authorities and duties of each Committee and are formally reviewed annually.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Each of these Committees is comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary: to secure, where appropriate, the attendance of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
Attendance at meetings of the individual Directors at the Board Meetings that they were eligible to attend is shown in the table below: Director Position Number of meetings attended Philip Burks Non-Executive Director to 19 July 2013 Tim Clark Non-Executive Director Richard Cotton Non-Executive Director James Gibson Chief Executive Officer Georgina Harvey Non-Executive Director from 1 July 2013 Steve Johnson Non-Executive Director Adrian Lee Operations Director Mark Richardson Non-Executive Director John Trotman Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Vetch Executive Chairman attended absent.
Nicholas Vetch and Adrian Lee missed one meeting each due to unavoidable diary conflicts.
The Board meets approximately once every two months to discuss a whole range of significant matters including strategic decisions, major asset acquisitions and performance.
A procedure to enable Directors to take independent professional advice if required has been agreed by the Board and formally confirmed by all Directors.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards attention including the approval of Group strategy and policies: major acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects and financing, Group budgets and material contracts entered into other than in the normal course of business.
The Board also considers matters of non-financial risk as part of its review of the Groups risk register.
At each Board meeting, the latest available financial information is produced which consists of detailed management accounts with the relevant comparisons to budget.
A current trading appraisal is given by the Executive Directors.
Information and professional development All Directors are provided with detailed financial information throughout the year.
On a weekly basis they receive a detailed occupancy report showing the performance of each of the Groups open stores.
Management accounts are circulated to the Executive monthly and a detailed Board pack is distributed a week prior to each Board meeting.
All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial risks with the assistance of the Companys legal advisers and auditors where appropriate.
The professional development requirements of Executive Directors are identified and progressed as part of each individuals annual appraisal.
All new Directors are provided with a full induction programme on joining the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas they consider to be appropriate for their own professional development.
Each year, the programme of senior management meetings is tailored to enable meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
During the year, the senior management team made visits to all of the Groups open stores.
