governance and remuneration B oarD oF DirecTors auBrey aDamS lucinDa Bell Simon BorrowS non-executive Director finance Director non-executive Director Appointment to the Board: aubrey was Appointment to the Board: Lucinda joined the Appointment to the Board: simon was appointed a non-executive Director of the executive committee in 2010, joined the Board appointed a non-executive Director of the company in september 2008. in march 2011 and became Finance Director company in march 2011. in may 2011.
Committee membership: executive External appointments: aubrey is head of External appointments: simon is chief committee, investment committee, operations Property within rBss global restructuring executive of 3i group plc and a non-executive committee and chair of the risk committee group and non-executive chairman of Director of inchcape plc.
he is chairman Previous experience: Before joining 3i simon of the Board of Trustees of wigmore hall.
Previous experience: Lucinda is a chartered worked for 28 years in the banking and finance accountant with over 20 years of industry Previous experience: Until may 2008, industry, most recently as chairman of experience.
she has held a range of roles aubrey was chief executive of savills PLc.
greenhill & co. international LLP, having in real estate finance including Director of he was formerly a non-executive Director previously served as co-chief executive officer Financial Planning, Tax Director and head of Pinnacle regeneration group Limited, of the firm and co-President.
Prior to greenhill, of accounting with hr responsibility for a senior independent Director of associated simon held the position of chief executive quarter of the companys people.
in 2006 British Ports PLc, non-executive chairman officer of Baring Brothers international Limited, she was the only company representative of Unitech corporate Parks PLc and the corporate finance division of ing Barings.
on the h. m. Treasury appointed working non-executive chairman of air Partner PLc.
party which designed the successful implementation of the reiT regime.
william JackSon charleS mauDSley Tim roBerTS non-executive Director head of retail and leisure head of offices and residential Appointment to the Board: william was Appointment to the Board: charles joined the Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed appointed a non-executive Director of the to the executive committee in august 2005 Board in February 2010. he has responsibility company in april 2011. for the retail and Leisure sectors of the and elected as an executive Director in July companys portfolio.
2006. he has responsibility for the office and Committee membership: remuneration residential sectors of the companys portfolio.
Committee membership: executive committee, investment committee, operations Committee membership: executive External appointments: william is managing committee and risk committee.
committee, investment committee, Partner of Bridgepoint, a leading private equity operations committee and risk committee.
william has served on a number of Previous experience: charles joined British Bridgepoint portfolio Boards.
he is currently Land from Lasalle investment management External appointments: Tim is a Trustee chairman of Pret a manger and President of where he was co-head of europe, managing and Board member of Landaid, the property Dorna sports sL.
Director of the UK business, a member of the industry charity.
management Board and an international Previous experience: william began his Previous experience: Before joining British Director.
Prior to joining Lasalle he was with career in natwests investment banking arm, Land in 1997 Tim was a partner at Drivers aXa real estate investment managers for before working extensively on private equity Jonas, in the investment agency team.
seven years where he was head of real estate transactions in europe.
he was appointed Fund management in the UK.
managing Partner of Bridgepoint, formerly natwest equity Partners, in 2001.
66 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration John gilDerSleeve chriS grigg DiDo harDing non-executive chairman chief executive non-executive Director Appointment to the Board: John became a Appointment to the Board: chris joined British Appointment to the Board: Dido was appointed non-executive Director in september 2008.
Land as chief executive in January 2009. a non-executive Director of the company he was senior independent Director from in January 2010.
Committee membership: chairman of the november 2010 until he was appointed executive committee, the investment Committee membership: remuneration chairman of the company on 1 January 2013. committee and the operations committee committee and nomination committee.
Committee membership: chairman of the and member of the risk committee.
External appointments: Dido is chief executive nomination committee.
External appointments: chris is a member officer of TalkTalk Telecom group PLc and External appointments: John is Deputy of the executive Board of ePra, the european is also a trustee of charity go on UK, which chairman of carphone warehouse group PLc Public real estate association, a nonaims to make the UK the most digitally skilled and a non-executive Director of TalkTalk executive Director of Bae systems plc and nation in the world.
a Board member of the British Property Previous experience: Prior to joining Federation.
Previous experience: Until 2004, John TalkTalk in early 2010, Dido was sainsburys was a Director of Tesco plc.
he was formerly Previous experience: chris was chief executive convenience Director and a member of chairman of new Look retail group of Barclays commercial Bank until november J sainsbury plcs operating Board.
Limited, emi group, gallaher group and 2008, having joined the bank in 2005 as group Dido previously held senior management carphone warehouse group and was also Treasurer.
Prior to Barclays, he held a broad positions within Tesco plc, Kingfisher Plc a non-executive Director of Lloyds TsB range of leadership positions at goldman and Thomas cook Ltd. Bank PLc and vodafone group.
sachs, where his career spanned 20 years, rising to partner.
chris held the position of President of the British Property Federation for the year ended July 2013.
Tim Score lorD TurnBull anThony Braine non-executive Director Senior independent Director SiD group Secretary Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed Appointment to the Board: andrew was Tony joined British Land in 1987 as assistant secretary and became group secretary a non-executive Director of the company appointed a non-executive Director in april on 20 march 2014.
2006 and became siD in January 2013. in 1995. he is retiring in July 2014.
Committee membership: chairman of the Committee membership: nomination audit committee.
committee and chairman of the remuneration committee.
External appointments: Tim is chief Financial officer of arm holdings PLc, a position he External appointments: andrew is a has held since joining the company in 2002. non-executive Director of Prudential PLc and Frontier economics Ltd. he entered the house Previous experience: Prior to joining arm, Tim of Lords in 2005 as a crossbench Life Peer.
held senior financial positions at rebus group Limited, william Baird plc, Lucas varity plc and Previous experience: andrew retired as BTr plc.
From 2005 to 2014, Tim was a nonsecretary of the cabinet and head of the home There are four additional members of the executive Director of national express group civil service in July 2005. he had previously executive committee that are not on the Board, PLc.
he was chairman of the audit committee held the positions of Permanent secretary of please see the website for full information.
and also a member of the remuneration and hm Treasury and Permanent secretary at the safety committees.
Tim was interim chairman Department of the environment.
andrew was executive committee biographies of national express from December 2008 a non-executive Director of the arup group www.
com about-us leadership to april 2009 and was senior independent from 200607 and chairman of Bh global executive-committee Director of national express from 2008 to 2014.
Limited for five years until January 2013.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67
