Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance Audit Committee Following our annual review of auditor Dear Shareholder quality and independence, we have As the Chairman of the Audit Committee determined that it is not necessary it is my role to present to you the Audit to tender the audit contract for the Committee report for 2014. time being, and have recommended that  PwC In addition to its core activities, the be reappointed for the 2015 audit.
Committee has this year continued to Although we are awaiting final guidance on focus on risk management, particularly audit tendering, we anticipate that a tender in relation to the expanding digital exercise will, at the latest, be carried out environment and our entry into Spain.
at the end of the current audit partners For the second consecutive year, the five year tenure, i. e. in respect of the year Committee carried out a comprehensive ending 31 December 2018. risk review and assessment of risk appetite across the Group.
The results of the risk In 2015 we will continue to focus on Highlights of 2014 review were discussed by the full Board the key risk areas of the Group.
This will Accounting treatment for significant at its annual away day.
The Groups risk include in-depth reviews of the Groups transactions in the year management framework is described developments, international operations indetail on pages 38 and 39. and the approach to our partners and Financial integration and control joint ventures.
ofsignificant acquisitions in the year The Board again asked the Audit Adle Anderson The impact of the adoption Committee to advise it on whether Chairman of the Audit Committee ofIFRS11 Joint Arrangements the annual report is fair, balanced and 27 February 2015 understandable and allows shareholders The Groups cyber security plans to make an assessment of the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Members in 2014 The annual report preparation process Chairman is set out on page 65 and, together Adle Anderson Independent Non-Executive Director with opinions of key executives and the external auditor, has been designed to Members assist the Committee in reaching its view.
Neil Sachdev The Committee is satisfied that, taken Independent Non-Executive Director as a whole, this Annual Report is fair, Andrew Strang Independent Non-Executive Director balanced and understandable and has recommended as such to the Board.
Areas of focus 2015 Developments International operations Partners and joint ventures Audit 1 Committee 4 meetings Meetings in 2014 A B Adle Anderson Chairman 4 4 Neil Sachdev 4 4 Andrew Strang 4 4 A maximum number of meetings eligible to attend.
B number of meetings actually attended.
1 The Audit Committee normally invites the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to attend meetings.
The Chairman attended three meetings of the Audit Committee in 2014 and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer attended all four.
63 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Governance Audit Committee continued Responsibilities External auditor Main activities during the year The Audit Committees key responsibilities The Audit Committee has assessed The Audit Committee considered the are to monitor and review: theeffectiveness of the external auditor, following key matters in 2014:  LLP PwC, by the integrity of the financial statements, acombination of direct meetings and the Groups investment property including a review of the significant review of independent reports: valuation process financial reporting judgements and accounting policies Senior finance staff reviewed the accounting treatment of the most detailed execution of the 2013 audit significant transactions in the year the effectiveness of the Groups internal plan with the engagement team and including the acquisitions of interests control and risk management identified specific improvements for in intu Merry Hill, intu Derby and the2014 plan the effectiveness of the internal audit Sprucefield from Westfield and function, including the work programme the associated rights issue, along The report of the Financial Reporting undertaken by the function with thesale of 80 per cent of Council FRC s May 2014 Audit Quality intu Uxbridge Inspection review of PwC was reviewed the Groups policy on whistleblowing and found to be supportive of the firms financial integration and control the Groups overall approach to overall systems of quality control ofacquisitions in the year monitoring areas of risk The Chairman of the Audit Committee changes to accounting standards the Companys relationship with and the Chief Financial Officer each and their potential impact on the the external auditor, including met privately with a senior partner of Group including the adoption of its independence PwC unrelated to the engagement IFRS11 Joint Arrangements shortly after the publication of the the 2014 Internal Audit Plan and Groups Annual Report to review the Audit Charter performance ofthe firm discussion on the appropriateness of The FRCs Audit Quality Review team those items classified as exceptional undertook a review of PwCs 2013 audit in the year and therefore excluded of the Company, reporting in November from underlying earnings 2014.
The Audit Committee discussed the findings with the lead audit partner the results of a review of the carrying and was satisfied with the actions to value of the Groups investment in be taken.
No significant changes to the Prozone due to the market value of audit approach were identified the shares trading at a discount to the Groups carrying value based The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 and on share of net assets.
This included Audit Directive 2014 56 EU become further enquiries by management applicable from 17 June 2016 and must to supplement their understanding be implemented in the UK by the same of the Indian market including date.
These limit the length of tenure discussions with an independent an audit firm can serve and put in place expert.
The review concluded that no requirements for the audit tender process.
adjustment was required at this time PwC have been Intus audit firm for more than 20 years and it is anticipated that the Groups cyber security plans a tender process will, at the latest, be carried out at the end of the current audit partners five year tenure, i. e. in respect of the year ending 31 December 2018.
A resolution to reappoint PwC for the 2015 audit will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee will continue to review the effectiveness and independence of PwC each year.
64 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance Key financial reporting and Presentation of information Fair, balanced and understandable  The Group has adopted IFRS 11 Joint At the request of the Board, the Arrangements in 2014.
This new standard During the year the Committee discussed Committee considered whether the requires that all joint ventures, which the the planning, progress and final conclusions 2014 Annual Report was fair, balanced Group previously chose to account for of the external audit process.
The audit plan and understandable and whether it on a proportional consolidated basis, are was reviewed and approved at the July provided the necessary information equity accounted.
The significant for shareholders to assess Intus risk areas identified were: investment Operating through joint ventures is a core performance, business model and property valuations: revenue recognition: part of Intus strategy.
As part of its considerations and management override of controls.
review and monitor the business, including the Committee took into account the International Standards on Auditing UK the Groups share of joint ventures, preparation process detailed below and Ireland identify these latter two risks on an individual line basis not on a which, together with opinions of key as significant for all companies.
These post-tax profit or net investment basis.
executives and the external auditor, issues were discussed bythe Committee The figures and commentary presented has been designed to assist the Audit following finalisation ofthe audit.
in the Strategic report have therefore Committee in reaching its view: been presented consistently with this The Committee takes into account the views at an early stage, a matrix is produced management approach.
Reconciliations to of the external auditor in understanding identifying key themes and the the presentation under IFRS 11 have and assessing whether suitable accounting sections in which those themes been provided in note 48 to the financial policies have been adopted and whether should be reflected statements and in the Other information management has made appropriate section on pages 155 and 156. estimates and judgements, and whether individual sections of the disclosures are balanced and fair.
The main Annual Report are drafted by The Committee has reviewed the issues discussed by the Committee in the appropriate senior management prominence given to both statutory current year were: with regular review meetings to information and information on a ensure consistency across the management basis, and concluded that Valuation of investment properties whole document the approach adopted provides the most For the interim results at 30 June the useful analysis of the results for the year.
Audit Committee carried out a review a verification process is undertaken of the investment property valuations.
to ensure that information contained Going concern The full Board carried out a review is appropriately supported and The Companys going concern review ofthe 31 December valuations included factually accurate which is based on an 18-month cash inthis report.
flow projection, with particular focus on detailed reviews of drafts the next 12 months, was discussed with Due to the overall importance of the of the Annual Report are management.
The projections cover the valuations to the Groups results, DTZ, who undertaken by members of the major trading cash flows, being rental undertake the largest proportion of the Executive Committee and other income, interest expense and capital Groups valuations, were invited to both the senior management expenditure plans in the context of the Audit Committee and the Board meetings drafts are discussed with the Groups latest debt maturity profile.
to participate in the consideration of legal advisors and brokers the valuations.
Stress tests of the projections were considered, covering reductions in net a final draft is reviewed by the Audit The Audit Committee review included rental income levels and the value of Committee and discussed with senior discussion with management and the the Groups properties and what impact management prior to consideration auditor of the key assumptions and results such changes may have on both the by the Board of the valuation process undertaken by the Groups liquidity and its ability to meet the independent third party valuers.
As a result of its considerations the financial covenants on its debt facilities.
Committee is satisfied that, taken This review also included understanding The discussion also considered what as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, which general factors had influenced the actions were available to the Group to balanced and understandable and has valuers in concluding on appropriate yields mitigate the impact of such reductions recommended as such to the Board.
This involved onthe cash flow projections.
factors affecting both the investment and occupier markets and recent comparable market transactions.
Particular emphasis was given to Following discussions with understanding the factors that had management, the Committee agreed resulted in individual property valuations with the conclusions reached and the being either significantly above or treatments relating to the above issues below the average movement in the adopted in these financial statements.
65 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Governance Audit Committee continued Non-audit services Details of the amounts paid to the external Risk management and internal control auditor for audit and non-audit services The Group has a policy to ensure that The Board has overall responsibility to are included in note 9 on page 107 to the provision of any non-audit services by oversee the Groups system of internal the financial statements.
The Company the incumbent external auditor does not control and to keep its effectiveness under engaged PwC to carry out certain nonimpair the external auditors independence review, as well as to determine the nature audit work in 2014 including assurance or objectivity.
and extent of the risks it is willing to take services in respect of the Groups 2014 in achieving its strategic objectives based The Audit Committee has considered the interim report, reporting accountant work on the balance of potential risks and option of putting material non-audit work in respect of the rights issue to part-fund reward.
The ongoing risk management out to tender.
While recognising that the the acquisition of intu Merry Hill, intu Derby process is described in detail on page 38 circumstances of a particular transaction and Sprucefield, and the debt issues for the and is designed to manage, rather than may make it most sensible to use the Secured Group Structure and intu Trafford eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve incumbent external auditor for such work Centre, and financial due diligence on the business objectives and can provide only a for example where the nature of the acquisition of intu Merry Hill, intu Derby reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance transaction would not allow a new firm and Sprucefield.
against material misstatement or loss.
sufficient time to assimilate the requisite The above safeguards were adhered knowledge of the Groups operations in Key elements of the Groups internal to when awarding this non-audit work order to carry out the non-audit work, the control system relating to financial and PwC were chosen for the reporting Audit Committee has recommended that reporting are as follows: accountant work as it was considered to non-audit work should be undertaken by the Group has a comprehensive be sensible for the external auditor to be someone other than the external auditor system for reporting financial results used and more efficient in terms of time wherever practical.
to the Board: detailed regular financial and cost.
PwC were chosen to undertake The Audit Committee has delegated to reports with comparisons to historic the due diligence work on efficiency the Executive Directors the authority to performance and against budget and grounds given the overall assignment.
contract for non-audit services with the forecasts are provided to the Board.
Fees paid to PwC in respect of non-audit external auditor subject to observing The Board reviews these for the work represented 65 per cent of the total certain guidelines including: Group as a whole and takes action fees paid.
During 2014 the Group used when appropriate accounting firms other than PwC for a Executive Directors have the authority anumber of assignments.
to commission the external auditor the Group undertakes a detailed to undertake non-audit work up to financial reporting process on a The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 aspecified value: quarterly basis.
This process is carried and Audit Directive 2014 56 EU, which out using the policies and practices that come into force on 17 June 2016, impose b the Executive Directors must consider apply to the control environment on an restrictions on certain non-audit services.
whether the proposed arrangements ongoing basis, and is largely undertaken A number of non-audit services will be will maintain audit independence: and by the Groups financial reporting team, prohibited and others will require approval which comprises appropriately qualified c the external auditor must by the Audit Committee.
There will be finance professionals.
Detailed planning satisfy the Company that it is an overall fee limit of 70 per cent of the is undertaken prior to the period end.
average of audit fees charged in the As part of this process, significant past three years for permitted non-audit business risks and their potential impact services.
The UK regulator is currently on the financial reporting process and consulting on the definition of non-audit results are considered, including the services and hence which services would effect of any changes in the business be affected.
Although these restrictions activities or accounting standards and do not come into force until 2016, the FRC matters arising from the underlying has already imposed a ban on tax services information systems by auditors where fees are payable on a contingent basis.
Intus current policy on non-audit services set out above continues in force for the time being.
As soon as there is more clarity on the new regulations, and in particular which services are impacted, Intu will review its policy and make any necessary amendments to comply with the new rules.
66 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance the preparation of the consolidated The most significant areas reviewed in Whistleblowing policy financial results involves a number 2014 were: shopping centre healthchecks The Audit Committee reviews the of review stages.
One of these stages or follow up reviews at six centres, Groups arrangements by which staff includes a technical accounting review corporate responsibility reviews at four can confidentially raise concerns by an internal technical specialist, centres, integration of the major assets about possible improprieties whether who has primary responsibility for acquired in the year intu Merry Hill and financial or otherwise within the ensuring that financial accounting intu Derby, a review of the transactional Group.
Any whistleblowing incidents developments are appropriately dealt services operation including accounts are reported to the Audit Committee, with in the Groups financial reporting payable, expenses, accounts receivable and fully investigated with procedures process.
After various internal review and cashiers, review of intu Experiences reviewed and improved where appropriate.
stages, draft financial reports, with commercialisation processes, a review of During 2014 we: narrative commentary on new technical cash exposures, centre demise reviews, revised the existing whistleblowing requirements or issues requiring a data identification, service charges, payroll policy to make it more user friendly, significant level of judgement, are outsourced service provider review and a communicate the role of the Audit prepared for review and approval by review of self-certification at the centres Committee and emphasise the the Audit Committee.
This review stage and head office.
Additionally, annual protection afforded to informants involves the Audit Committee discussing assurance activities were performed, the consolidated financial results and including a review of gifts and hospitality publicised the revised policy and significant judgements with senior and Executive expenses.
process throughout the Group and management and, where appropriate, improved accessibility to whistleblowing The Audit Committee regularly reviews the the external auditor information and advice via the effectiveness of the risk and internal audit Groups intranet The Board has conducted a review of the function and in particular ensures that the effectiveness, on the basis of criteria set out function remains sufficiently independent created an online process to in the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils of the wider business to ensure it can carry register concerns internal control guidance for Directors, out its work effectively.
An independent of systems of internal financial control review of the risk and internal audit There was one whistleblowing incident and risk management for the year ended function is carried out every five years and during 2014.
This was a non-financial 31 December 2014 and has confirmed was last performed at the end of 2013. matter which was fully investigated and that there have been no material found to be unsubstantiated.
The outcome developments affecting their review which was accepted by the complainant.
have taken place since the year end.
Audit Committee effectiveness Internal audit As part of the Board evaluation process, the Audit Committee reviewed its own The Group has a risk and internal audit effectiveness and the results were positive.
function which reports to the Audit The Committee took the opportunity Committee.
The risk and internal audit to streamline the agenda and papers function reviews internal controls and submitted for its meetings to improve reports to the Audit Committee on efficiency and decision making.
whether such controls are in place and are being operated effectively.
The function Adle Anderson covers Intu Properties plc, subsidiaries Chairman of the Audit Committee including intu Retail Services and 27 February 2015 joint ventures.
67 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
