governance and remuneration r ePorT oF The a UDiT commiTTee compoSiTion of The commiTTee The allocation of time spent on the committees at the start of the year the committee principal responsibilities is shown in the comprised richard Pym committee chart on page 77. significant additional time chairman, aubrey adams and simon Borrows.
continues to be spent by members of the The committees composition changed during audit committee meeting with executive the year.
Following richard Pym standing down management to understand the key issues.
as a non-executive Director of British Land in The committee regularly meets with the september, aubrey adams took on the role of external auditor and internal auditor without chairman of the committee on an interim basis management being present to ensure honest and william Jackson joined the committee as and challenging conversations take place.
i was appointed a non-executive Director of British Land and chairman of the exTernal auDiTor audit committee on 20 march 2014, at which Following best practice and in accordance point aubrey once again became a committee with its Terms of reference, the audit member and william Jackson stepped down.
committee annually reviews the audit The committee now comprises myself, as requirements of the group, both for the Dear ShareholDer, committee chairman, aubrey adams and business and in the context of the external simon Borrows.
environment, and considers whether or not welcome to the report of the to undertake a formal tender.
There are no i am now the member of the committee audit committee.
contractual obligations which would restrict nominated as having recent and relevant the selection of a different auditor.
financial experience, as required by the UK we are committed to corporate governance code.
aubrey was when conducting the annual review, the audit monitoring the integrity of the nominated member during his time as committee considers the performance of the chairman of the committee, as was richard external auditor as well as their independence, the groups reporting and to before him.
i would like to thank aubrey compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory developing and maintaining and william for their contribution during and ethical standards and objectivity.
the transition period, and look forward sound systems of risk The committee concluded that the findings of to leading the committee.
this years review were satisfactory.
however, management and internal following 12 years of external audit from control.
Key initiatives adopted acTiviTieS of The commiTTee Deloitte, it was decided that the external audit The committee operates within defined Terms by the committee this year should be put out to tender for the year ending of reference, which were reviewed during 31 march 2015: the tender process is described included tendering the external the year and can be found on the companys in the box on the facing page.
This complies website at www.
com about-us audit, enhancing our review with new governance requirements, and governance committees.
facilitated an evaluation of the merit of different of valuer effectiveness and During the year the committee has undertaken audit approaches.
heightening procedures each of its principal responsibilities, receiving There are no matters in connection with relevant reports from the valuers, the internal to ensure the annual report Deloittes prospective resignation as auditor and external auditors, the risk committee and and accounts is fair, balanced which, in the view of the Board, need to be management, and challenging assumptions brought to the attention of shareholders.
The table on page 76 details the responsibilities of the committee SignificanT iSSueS and its activities throughout the year.
The audit committee pays particular attention The committee performs a detailed review of to matters it considers to be important by virtue the content and tone of the annual and half-year of their size, complexity, level of judgement and press releases and the annual report and potential impact on the financial statements accounts, as well as interim management and wider business model.
The committee has satisfied itself of the issues deemed to be significant takes that controls over the accuracy and consistency place following open, frank and challenging of information presented in the annual report discussion between the committee members, and accounts are robust, and has confirmed with input from the Finance Director, external to the Board that it believes this annual and internal auditors, external experts and report and accounts is fair, balanced and other relevant British Land employees.
an assurance opinion is The significant issues considered by the obtained for the company from Pwc over committee during the year ended 31 march the corporate responsibility statement 2014 are detailed in the table on page 77, and a verification exercise is performed alongside the actions taken by the committee by management to ensure consistency to address these issues.
and accuracy of information presented.
74 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration policy on The auDiTor proviDing do so, the external auditor is selected.
exTernal auDiT TenDer non-auDiT ServiceS in other circumstances the selection in the 2012 annual report the audit with respect to other services provided by depends on which firm is best suited: committee indicated that, once there was the external auditor, the following framework tax advisory: the selection depends clarity on auditor appointment guidance was in place during the year and will continue on which firm is best suited in the from the Financial reporting council to apply on the appointment of the new circumstances: and and european Union, it would tender the external auditor: external audit and that this was expected general consulting: the external auditor is audit related services: audit related to be within the next two years.
not selected to provide general consultancy services include formal reporting relating to services except in certain circumstances, in the 2013 annual report the audit borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and then only after consideration that they committee confirmed that it would tender and various work in respect of acquisitions are best placed to provide the service the audit in the coming year for the financial and disposals.
where the external auditor and that their independence and objectivity year ending march 2015. must carry out the work because of their will not be compromised.
office or because they are best placed to a number of firms were approached to tender for the audit, including mid-tier firms as well auDiT commiTTee memBerS as members of the Big Four.
The list of firms 1 was selected based upon their experience, Tim Score chairman of the audit committee industry skills and knowledge, their ability 1 aubrey adams member to perform the audit to a high standard, and any pre-existing business relationships member Simon Borrows that might affect their independence.
auDiT commiTTee aTTenDeeS it was agreed that, in light of the longevity Deloitte attends as independent external auditor to the group of Deloittes appointment, they would not be invited to tender for the audit.
attend twice a year to present their valuations knight frank and cBre as the groups external valuers over a number of months senior management within Finance built John gildersleeve chairman of the company relationships with each selected firm, attends by invitation assessing their performance in a range chris grigg chief executive of competencies.
on this basis two firms attends by invitation were shortlisted and each was requested to submit a tender.
each shortlisted firm lucinda Bell Finance Director was given access to personnel across attends by invitation the business before presenting their anthony Braine group secretary audit proposal to the management Panel attends by invitation and selection Panel.
rob hudson group Financial controller The management Panel consisted of audit attends by invitation stakeholders from across Finance and the wider business.
The selection Panel marc furlonger head of Financial Forecasting and Financial reporting attends by invitation consisted of the audit committee: chris grigg, chief executive: Lucinda Bell, rachel wagg head of reporting Finance Director: and rob hudson, group attends by invitation Financial controller.
nicola Thomas head of Property valuation The Board accepted the selection Panels attends by invitation recommendation that  Sally Jones head of investor relations be selected as the new external auditor.
attends by invitation Deloitte will resign as the companys auditor after completing the audit of this annual charles middleton head of Tax report and accounts.
The Board intends attends by invitation to appoint  Jonathan rae secretary to the risk committee to fill the casual vacancy created and will attends by invitation recommend the appointment of  to shareholders head of internal audit, KPmg chris Dicks at the 2014 annual general meeting.
attends by invitation Stephen Spellman internal audit Partner, KPmg attends by invitation 1 richard Pym was chairman of the audit committee until 5 september 2013, when he stood down as a nonexecutive Director of British Land.
subsequently aubrey adams, previously a member of the committee, was appointed chairman of the committee and william Jackson was appointed as a member of the committee.
Tim score was appointed chairman of the committee on 20 march 2014 at which point aubrey adams became a member of the committee and william Jackson stood down from the committee.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 governance and remuneration r ePorT oF The aUDiT commiTTee c onTinUeD key areaS formally DiScuSSeD anD revieweD principal reSponSiBiliTieS of The auDiT commiTTee By The commiTTee During 2013 14 incluDe reporTing monitoring the integrity of the companys results, commentary and announcements.
financial statements and all formal anD exTernal Key accounting policy judgements, including valuations.
announcements relating to the companys auDiT impact of future financial reporting standards.
financial performance: reviewing financial going concern.
reporting judgements contained within external auditor effectiveness.
making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of the external selection and recommendation of new external auditor.
auditor and approving the external auditors half-yearly external auditor reports on planning, conclusions and remuneration and terms of engagement.
monitoring and reviewing the external external auditor management letter, containing observations arising auditors independence, objectivity and from the annual audit leading to recommendations for control or effectiveness.
Developing and implementing policy on external auditors remuneration and level of non-audit fees.
the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
monitoring and reviewing the valuation annual report on the effectiveness of our valuers, which considers the valuaTionS process.
quality of the valuation process and judgement, with a half-yearly update.
valuer presentations to the committee.
reviewing the companys internal financial The outputs of the risk register process including identification riSk anD controls, its compliance with the Turnbull of the groups principal risks and movement in the exposure to these inTernal guidance and the effectiveness of its risks in the year.
conTrol internal control and risk management oversight of the groups risk management processes and their systems.
effectiveness, including activities of the risk committee.
assessing the principal risks of the an annual report on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
business including those that would Planning internal audit reviews to map the principal risks and a threaten solvency or liquidity.
commitment to review transaction procedures.
reviewing disclosures on our approach Focus on issues relating to Joint ventures.
to risk in interim and annual reports.
an annual fraud risk assessment and an independent fraud resilience review.
insurance programme for property, development and corporate risks.
monitoring and reviewing the monitoring KPmgs execution of the internal audit.
inTernal effectiveness of the companys internal auDiT internal audit effectiveness.
audit function, including its plans, internal audit charter defining its role and responsibilities.
level of resources and budget.
internal audit programme of review of the groups processes and reviewing internal audit reports, controls to be undertaken, and an assurance map showing the coverage recommendations and progress of audit work over three years against the principal risks.
in implementation of those implementation status reports on internal audit recommendations.
The groups internal audit function reports, including those on: iT governance Benchmarking: Tax reiT compliance: retail managing agents: risk management Processes: sustainability acquisitions Brief: Business continuity: governance review of eden walk: Full scope review of the hercules Unit Trust: governance review of southgate, Bath: Technical information security review: Tax reputation risk: Fraud resilience review: and annual key financial controls testing.
oTher reviewing the committees Terms of review of the audit committees Terms of reference.
reference and monitoring its execution.
review of the effectiveness of the audit committee.
considering compliance with legal maintenance of the groups reiT status.
requirements, accounting standards and compliance with changes to the UK corporate governance code, the Listing rules.
including the fair, balanced and understandable concept.
reviewing the whistle-blowing policy and compliance with changes in accounting standards, including iFrs 13: operation.
annual tax update and Tax Policy.
review of Pwc corporate responsibility assurance report.
76 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration ALLOCATION OF TIME SPENT AT AUDIT The following commitment protocol operated non-auDiT work carrieD ouT By The COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR throughout the year and applied to any exTernal auDiTor During The year engagement of other work excluding audit enDeD 31 march 2014 and half-yearly reporting performed by the Deloitte real estate formerly Drivers Jonas Reporting and external auditor: Deloitte provides advice on the masterplanning 4% External Audit 14% Valuations of the 75 acres of potential development land audit committee approval is required where Risk and around meadowhall shopping centre, together internal control there are any doubts as to whether the with occasional advice or services on other 40% Internal Audit external auditor has a conflict of interest: 18% Other matters.
it was appointed to this role prior and to its acquisition by Deloitte.
The committee approval by the audit committee chairman considered and agreed that this and other 24% on behalf of the committee is required non-audit related services provided by for each additional project over 0.1 million Deloitte could be provided during the year, in value where cumulative fees for other subject to approval by the committee where This does not include time spent outside formal Audit Committee meetings relating to the external audit tender.
work performed by the external auditor expenditure was above the established are projected to exceed 75% of the combined approval limits.
fee for audit and half-yearly reporting as shown in note 5 to the financial statements, review work.
total fees payable to Deloitte in the last During the year no project approvals by the audit financial year amounted to 0.8 million committee chairman were required, however of which 0.2 million was for non-audit related as a precaution approval was requested and services provided by Deloitte real estate.
obtained for two non-audit engagements.
SignificanT iSSueS conSiDereD how TheSe iSSueS were aDDreSSeD By The commiTTee During The year By The commiTTee exTernal as confirmed in the 2013 annual report, a detailed description of the tender process is provided in the box auDiT TenDer the audit committee tendered the external on page 75. audit for the march 2015 financial year.
valuaTionS although conducted by external, independent The audit committee reviews the methodology and outcomes of the valuers, the valuation of the investment valuations and compares those of cBre and Knight Frank.
The external property portfolio is inherently subjective valuers present to the committee and are asked to highlight any significant as it is made on the basis of assumptions judgements or disagreements with management.
The committee made by the valuer which may not prove assesses the independence of both external valuers, Knight Frank and to be accurate.
more information on this can be found on page 78.
Furthermore, judgement is significant to the group in the external auditor challenges the independent valuations as part terms of its investment decisions, results of their audit procedures and report their findings to the audit committee.
accounTing for increased risk is encountered through The committee reviews management papers on key judgements as well TranSacTionS transactions, as large and non-standard as the external auditors report presented following their detailed review accounting entries are often required.
going concern risks to the companys ongoing solvency The committee considers the financing requirements of the group in the and liquidity and the appropriateness of context of available committed facilities and the diversity and longevity preparing the group financial statements of existing debt.
in addition a paper is provided to the committee covering for the half-year and the full-year on a customer concentration, financing options and covenant headroom.
The external auditor shares their review of these papers and their assumptions with the committee.
reiT STaTuS maintenance of the groups reiT status The audit committee reviews compliance with the reiT tests annually.
through compliance with certain conditions management present the methodology and results of the reiT tests, has a significant impact on the groups highlighting any change in long-term trends and the current level of results.
fair, Under the UK corporate governance code enhanced procedures and documentation were adopted during BalanceD anD the Board should establish arrangements the year, as detailed in the accountability section of the governance unDerSTanDaBle to ensure the annual report presents a fair, review on page 71. balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
on behalf of the Board, the audit committee considered what enhancements were necessary to current procedures to ensure that this statement could be made.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 governance and remuneration r ePorT oF The aUDiT commiTTee c onTinUeD inTernal auDiT iDenTificaTion anD evaluaTion of The companys internal audit function has been commercial riSkS anD relaTeD outsourced to KPmg, who reports regularly to conTrol oBJecTiveS the committee, as detailed in the table on page The audit committee holds responsibility 76.
The committee monitors the performance for overseeing the effectiveness of sound risk of the internal audit function throughout the management and internal control systems.
year, as well as performing an annual review it fulfils this role by monitoring the activities of its effectiveness.
The committee believes of the risk committee, the risk management KPmg continues to discharge its internal processes in place and the activities of the audit duties effectively.
internal audit function, including its reporting on the effectiveness of controls.
valuaTionS The external valuation of British Lands risk committee P65 portfolio is a key determinant of the groups balance sheet, performance and senior managing risk in delivering our strategy management remuneration.
in accordance P3637 with its Terms of reference, the committee undertakes a rigorous approach to monitoring principal risks and reviewing the valuation process and the P3841 effectiveness of the groups valuers, Knight The risk committee minutes are circulated Frank and cBre.
The committee performed to the audit committee for review, with a detailed review of the effectiveness of the any significant matters highlighted for audit valuers in the current year, based upon a series committee discussion.
Twice yearly the of qualitative and quantitative measures which principal risks, which are derived from the risk consider the quality of the valuation process register process, are presented to the audit and judgements, with comparison against committee, along with commentary on how actual transactions.
the exposure to these risks has moved in the The valuers present directly to the audit period, for oversight and discussion.
annually, committee at the half-year and year-end a report on the effectiveness of internal review of results, including confirmation of controls is prepared by internal audit for their valuation process, market conditions and presentation to the audit committee as well significant judgements made.
The companys as a fraud risk assessment.
internal audit external auditor reviews the valuations and and the risk committee work closely together valuation process and reports its findings to ensure that identified risk areas inform to the audit committee, having full access the internal audit programme and similarly, to the valuers and exchange of information to findings of internal audit reviews are taken determine that due process has been followed into account in identifying and evaluating risks using appropriate information.
The valuation within the business.
British Land maintains a process is also subject to regular internal framework of controls related to key financial audit review, the most recent being undertaken processes and management of the associated by KPmg on behalf of the company in 2013. risks.
The effectiveness of such controls is reviewed by internal audit annually, either For the valuation of the groups whollythrough dedicated procedures or in the owned assets, the company has fixed fee course of other internal audit reviews.
arrangements with Knight Frank and cBre, in line with the recommendations of the carsberg committee report.
copies of the valuation certificates of Knight Frank and cBre can be found on the website at www.
chairman of the audit committee 78 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
