Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 Implementation of policy in coming year The Directors Remuneration Policy and its implementation for the forthcoming financial year is summarised below: Package The main elements of Executive Director remuneration effective from 16 July 2014 being the date of the AGM at which structure shareholder approval for this report will be sought are: Base salary.
Annual bonus plan with maximum opportunity of 25% of base salary based on the stores average performance against targets over the four quarters of the year which is then taken and applied to calculate the head office bonus percentage.
Performance in the stores is assessed on four Key Performance Indicators of occupancy, growth, net contribution, and store standards.
For the 2014 financial year, occupancy and net contribution together represent 68% of bonus with the weighting between the two dependent on stores occupancy levels, and therefore their sales focus.
Customer satisfaction makes up 24% of bonus and store standards the balance of 8%.
The Committee is of the opinion that further disclosure of the performance targets for the bonus plan are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be disclosed at the end of the performance period.
Long Term Incentive Plan with maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary delivered in shares based on relative Total Shareholder Return against the FTSE Real Estate Index.
An EPS underpin target of growth ahead of RPI must be satisfied before any part of the LTIP award can vest.
Long Term Bonus Performance Plan to ensure that the total remuneration package is more competitive and supports the Companys strategy and its ability to react to changing economic and business circumstances.
Under the Plan, Executive Directors have been awarded restricted interests in ordinary shares in the Company which entitles a participant to benefit from the growth in the value of a number of ordinary shares over which the interest is acquired.
The Committee sets the performance targets annually, but is of the opinion that the disclosure of the performance targets for the year ahead is commercially sensitive and will not be made but the performance targets for the year under review except for those which remain commercially sensitive are provided in the table below: Pay for The key principle for the short and long term incentives is to provide a strong link between reward and individual and Group performance performance to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
When merited by performance, an opportunity is offered to earn total remuneration approaching the median level against companies of a similar market capitalisation and with similar revenues to the Company.
Long Term Bonus Performance Plan review The performance targets for the LTBPP are not disclosed for the year ahead, given the commercially sensitive nature of a number of the targets which are derived from the Groups business plan.
Shortly after the end of each year, the Committee assesses the key targets and the extent to which management has been able to meet these targets for that year and reports on this assessment excluding any that are still commercially sensitive.
The targets are only adjusted during the year if material events occur that necessitate a change to the business plan.
The report on the targets for the year ended 31 March 2013 was included in the annual report for that year.
The report on the targets for the year ended 31 March 2014 is summarised in the table below: Objective Committee comment Maintain the Groups annual free cash flow for the year to 31 March 2014 The Groups free cash flow for the year to 31 March 2014 was 32.8 million, at 30.2 million which was achieved in the year to 31 March 2013. an increase of 9% from the prior year.
Maintain the Groups net debt below 235 million.
At 31 March 2014 the Groups net debt was 226.1 million.
Comply with all banking covenants and maintain a net worth in excess All banking covenants were complied with during the year.
grown by 41.4 million to 594.1 million.
Grow established store occupancy over the summer to 78% and 75% at Established store occupancy peaked at 78.3%.
At 31 March 2014 established March 2014 following the normal winter slowdown.
store occupancy was 75.2% compared to 72.8% occupied at 31 March 2013.
Grow the occupancy of the wholly owned stores from 64.8% at 31 March The occupancy of the wholly owned stores was 69.8% at 31 March 2014, 2013 to 68% by 31 March 2014. representing growth of 165,000 sq ft over the year 2013: growth of 90,000 sq ft. Grow the occupancy of the Partnership stores to 64% at 31 March 2014 The Partnership stores peaked at 62.4% occupancy during the summer: from 54.6% occupied at the start of the year.
however, following seasonal occupancy losses these stores were 59.3% occupied at 31 March 2014.
The net achieved rent per sq ft within the Partnership stores grew by 7.7% during the year.
Grow the average net rent per square foot across the wholly owned stores The net rent per sq ft of the wholly owned stores was 26.15 at 31 March from 24.65 per square foot by 3% to 25.40 by 31 March 2014.
2014, an increase of 6.1% from the prior year.
74 Long Term Bonus Performance Plan review continued Objective Committee comment Meet budgeted revenue 70.3 million and adjusted profit 27.7 million Revenue for the year was 72.2 million, 2.7% ahead of budget.
profit for the year was 29.2 million, 5.4% ahead of budget.
Maintain the Groups online market share measured against the top 35 self The Groups average market share over the course of the financial year was storage operators by Experian Hitwise, at 35% to 38%.
Our nearest competitor had a market share of 14% for the year.
Construct Gypsy Corner on time and on budget, with the store due to open in The store was constructed on budget, and opened as planned on 1 April April 2014 2014.
Obtain planning consent for the change of use of the surplus site at Guildford The planning application was submitted in July 2013 for this scheme and Central to a restricted retail usage.
consent was granted in November 2013.
Contracts to sell the site have been exchanged, with completion due in summer 2014.
2 Reduce the carbon intensity for the year to 31 March 2014 KgCO m of Carbon intensity was reduced by 17% for the year to 31 March 2014.
2 occupied space by 5% from the year to 31 March 2013.
The other targets, covering areas such as real estate, staffing and certain financial targets, were met in all material respects.
Following careful consideration of the performance targets and actual performance of the Group and the Executive Directors, the Committee has considered that the award in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2014 has provisionally vested as to 100% of its potential amount for the year.
The Committee assessed 85% vesting in the year to 31 March 2013.
The provisional vesting percentage will be reviewed by the Committee at the end of the three year plan in March 2015, and the final vesting level covering the three year period determined then.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships The Executive Directors contracts do not allow them to engage in any other business outside the Group except where prior written consent from the Board is received.
The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that this can help broaden the skills and experience of a Director.
Executive Directors are normally permitted to accept external appointments with the approval of the Board and may retain the fees for the appointment.
Nicholas Vetch is a Non-Executive Director of Blue Self Storage S. L, a Spanish self storage business, and The Local Shopping REIT plc.
He receives a NonExecutive fee of 38,000 per annum from Blue Self Storage S. L and 30,000 per annum from The Local Shopping REIT plc.
James Gibson is a Non-Executive Director of AnyJunk Limited: he does not receive any fees for his services.
Shareholder voting The Group is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Directors remuneration, the reasons for any such vote will be sought and any actions in response will be detailed here.
There have been no significant issues raised by shareholders in respect of remuneration in the year.
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2013 Remuneration Report at the AGM held on 19 July 2013.
Votes for % Votes against % Votes withheld 2013 Remuneration Report 105,815,530 97.3% 2,924,155 2.7% 29,378 75 Audit Committee Report INTRODUCTION The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including consideration of the need for an internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meetings, on the appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
This year, the Committee has focussed on the new narrative reporting and corporate governance disclosures in the Annual Report.
The Committee was asked by the Board to review the statement by the Directors that the Annual report presents a fair, balance and understandable view of the Groups performance, strategy and business model.
Mark Richardson Audit Committee Chairman Committee Members and Attendance Director Position Number of meetings attended Tim Clark Member Richard Cotton Member Georgina Harvey Member from 1 July 2013 Steve Johnson Member Mark Richardson Chairman attended absent The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently Mark Richardson, as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, fulfils this requirement.
All Audit Committee members are expected to be financially literate.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee members and ongoing training to enable all of the Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time commitment by members and an overview of the Groups business, including the main business and financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also meet some of the Groups staff.
Ongoing training includes attendance at formal conferences, internal company seminars and briefings by external advisers.
Meetings The Audit Committee is required to meet three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Financial Controller, and senior representatives of the external auditor to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge its duties Since the beginning of the financial year the Audit Committee has: reviewed published financial information including the year end results, Annual Report, half year results and the Interim Management Statements: considered whether the Annual Report provides a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Groups performance, strategy and business model: considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements on this matter: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor: 76
