Governance Nomination and Review Committee Statement on diversity policy Dear Shareholder The Nomination and Review Committee, As the Chairman of the Committee it is and the Board, recognises the importance mytask to present to you the report of of boardroom diversity, not just gender theNomination and Review Committee specific, and the Committees policy is to for theyear ended 31 December 2014. seek to ensure that all available suitable candidates are taken into account when The Committee is pleased with the drawing up shortlists of candidates for progress of the newly implemented possible appointments to the Board.
comprehensive succession planning and However, the priority of the Committee leadership development programme and the Board is to ensure that the Group across the Group, identifying appropriate continues to have the strongest and most internal succession paths and establishing effective Board possible, and therefore a programme for talent development.
all appointments to the Board are The Committee carried out a formal made on merit against objective criteria.
Board performance evaluation process the The Board is supportive of the Davies The priority of the Committee outcome of which is summarised opposite.
Report recommendations in relation is to ensure that the Group toboard diversity.
We continue to have 20 per cent female continues to have the representation on the Board and will keep Board composition strongest and most effective the target of 25 per cent in mind when The Committees discussions regarding Board possible an opportunity next arises for a Board the composition of the Board continued appointment to be made.
Our statement Patrick Burgess to be framed by the Companys previously on our diversity policy is set out below.
Chairman of the Board stated goal of reducing the overall size of the Board.
The Committee is satisfied Responsibilities and how they were Highlights of 2014 that the balance of skills, knowledge discharged in 2014 Succession planning and experience on the Board and its The principal role of the Nomination and Committees is appropriate and no further Performance evaluation Review Committee is to evaluate the skills appointments are currently planned or available on the Board and to determine Education and development envisaged.
The Committee has discussed when appointments and retirements the scheduled retirements of the SID and are appropriate.
Members in 2014 the Remuneration Committee Chairman, Chairman In addition to its key responsibilities set out due at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee is Patrick Burgess above, the Committee is also responsible in the early stages of the search for two Chairman of the Board for carrying out the annual performance new Non-Executive Directors following the Members evaluation of the Board, its Committees 2015 AGM.
Andrew Huntley and individual Directors, as well as making Independent Non-Executive Director recommendations to the Board on Louise Patten appointments to the Board, including the Independent Non-Executive Director induction programme for newly appointed Neil Sachdev Directors, and on succession planning.
Independent Non-Executive Director The Committee met twice in 2014 with Areas of focus 2015 its main focus on the composition of the Appointment of two Board and succession planning.
Non-Executive Directors Directors induction Board communication Nomination and Review Committee 2 meetings Meetings in 2014 A B Patrick Burgess Chairman 2 2 Andrew Huntley 2 2 Louise Patten 2 2 Neil Sachdev 2 2 A Maximum number of meetings eligible to attend.
B Number of meetings actually attended.
68 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance Succession planning appointment but includes meetings with The Board also recognises the need Board members, senior management for Directors to keep up to date with Succession planning and the development and external advisers as well as a highrelevant legislative and regulatory of talent in the business was a major level review of all current projects, Board developments as well as changes to preoccupation of the Committee during strategy and an in-depth review of the corporate governance best practice and the year, and a comprehensive talent and Groups assets.
The Company leadership development programme, Secretary reports to each Board meeting including succession planning, has been Where required, the Company Secretary on these matters, drawing attention to any implemented across the entire Group provides guidance or facilitates the issues of particular relevance.
In addition, from the Board down.
The Committee has provision of training on Directors individual the Company Secretary maintains an monitored the progress of the programme duties under the Companies Act 2006 up-to-date comprehensive schedule at every meeting and is pleased with the and on legal, regulatory and governance summarising legislative and regulatory progress made to date.
matters with which the Company, Board developments relevant to the Company and individual Directors must comply.
Renewal of Non-Executive and rated according to risk impact on the appointments Group, which is available to the Board and Education and development Senior Management.
All Directors will submit themselves for The Chairman, with the assistance of re-election at the forthcoming Annual the Nomination and Review Committee, Patrick Burgess General Meeting in May 2015.
Chairman regularly considers the need for Directors 27 February 2015 to update and expand their skills and Induction for new Directors knowledge.
Training is provided for There is a comprehensive induction Non-Executive Directors in the form programme for new Directors which is of presentations at Board meetings, as tailored by the Chairman, in consultation well as attendance at relevant seminars with the Chief Executive and Company and courses.
Secretary, depending on the type of Performance evaluation Every year, the Board conducts an evaluation of its own performance and of the performance of the Chairman and each of the Board Committees.
In addition, the Chairman reviews the performance of each individual Director and the Senior Independent Director oversees the review of the Chairmans performance.
The evaluation process conducted during 2013 generated three areas requiring attention during 2014 and progress against those areas is shown in the table below: 2014 performance evaluation The 2014 performance evaluation was conducted by way of an internal questionnaire with external facilitation.
The key points identified formed the basis for recommendations which the Board used to establish an action plan for 2015.
The main areas covered by the action plan for attention in 2015 are: Succession planning identification of appropriate profiles for candidates, followed by the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors to replace Andrew Huntley and Neil Sachdev, both to retire at 2016 AGM Board Communication Board members encouraged to attend Board update session in person rather than by conference callwhere possible, and create more opportunities for the Board to make working visits to our centres Risk add as standard agenda item to Audit Committee agenda.
Incorporate a section on risk into Board presentations andcapex proposals Area identified for attention in 2014 Action taken Revisions to Board and Committee Committee meetings held one week prior to Board meetings timetable and sequencing of meetings Committee meetings held sequentially on one day Additional meetings of Remuneration Remuneration Committee met on two occasions, in addition to scheduled meetings, Committee to develop the new format to develop the new format Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report More exposure to senior management Attendance at Board meetings by senior managers to present on specific topics across the Group on topics of Audit Committee agenda amended to allow for deep dives into particular topics particular relevance atleast twice per year External facilitation provided by Claire Howard, who also carried out the formal external evaluation in 2013.
Ms Howard has no other connection with Intu.
69 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Governance Focus on: Spain Our Spanish enterprise ur Spanish strategy has come a ofPuerto Venecia, an award-winning long way since we first started retail and leisure centre in Zaragoza, thinking about Spain in 2012. which has substantially strengthened OWe chose Spain because it our market position in Spain.
With our offers a great investment opportunity partners Eurofund we have options on Spains shopping with possibilities for growth: good four development sites in Mlaga, Valencia, centre market has infrastructure, an economy moving out Palma and Vigo and are likely to embark of recession, sophisticated retailers and on the Mlaga site, to be intu Costa del fragmented ownership consumers.
Most of all, its prime regional Sol, in 2015. and offers great shopping centre market has fragmented Our timing has been good Spain is out ownership and offers great opportunities opportunities for of recession, with workplace reforms in for an imaginative owner to shake it up.
place, unemployment falling, consumer an imaginative In 2013 a rare opportunity to acquire a confidence strengthening and household new owner quality asset came up the 75,000 sq.
Parque Principado shopping centre in The top 10 Spanish retail locations account Oviedo, Asturias in northern Spain.
It is for 80 per cent of retail expenditure.
Intu one of Spains top 10 shopping centres, now owns or has options in six of these.
strategically located with over 9 million Creating this leading platform in three visitors a year.
years demonstrates our agility in In a bold move six months earlier the executingnew strategies.
Spanish economy looked fragile Intu teamed up with the major property investor, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board CPPIB, to acquire the centre in October 2013.
At the end of 2014 we are already seeing the rewards for our boldness, which gives us confidence that were on the right path.
The centre was purchased for 162 million but is now valued at 212 million, an increase in value of 28 per cent since acquisition.
It is 99 per cent occupied and new leases signed in 2014 averaged 18 per cent above ERV.
Sales and footfall are both significantly ahead of nationwide indices.
Parque Principado, which will undergo a full intu rebrand as well as change its name to intu Asturias in 2015, was our first Spanish acquisition.
In December 2014 we announced the acquisition 70 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
