Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance Governance Please see page 64 of the Audit Dear Shareholder Committee Report where we discuss the I am pleased to introduce Intus Corporate external auditor and their tenure.
Our approach to good governance I would like to highlight the following key continues to be robust and, we believe, areas of focus during 2014: highly effective.
Our governance procedures are kept under close scrutiny Risk management As a result of the by the Board, and we react quickly, where rapid changes to the business including appropriate, to match best practice and especially the increased focus on digital regulation.
I am confident that our attitude services and the expansion of operations and approach to good governance is into Spain, the Audit Committee has embedded throughout the business overseen an evolution of the Groups risk andremains of the highest standard.
management methodology to ensure all risks are identified and prioritised An amended version of the UK appropriately.
A comprehensive formal Governance Code was issued in September appraisal of risk appetite, introduced last 2014 which is applicable to companies Our approach to good year, was repeated in 2014.
All existing with a UK premium listing with financial governance continues to be and new risks were analysed, discussed years beginning on or after 1 October robust and highly effective and reviewed with the Board and 2014: Intu will report on its compliance Senior Management.
Each risk was with the 2014 version of the Code in its Patrick Burgess assessed as to potential impact and 2015 Annual Report.
Chairman probability and categorised accordingly.
Patrick Burgess Further information on the Groups risks Chairman Key matters discussed in 2014 can be found on pages 38 and 39.
27 February 2015 Acquisition of Merry Hill and UK Corporate Governance Code Derby in the UK and Sprucefield Compliance The Audit Committee has inNorthern Ireland confirmed to the Board that in its opinion, Driving the investment programme the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014, taken as a Joint venture to introduce an 80 whole, is fair, balanced and understandable percent partner at intu Uxbridge and provides the information necessary for shareholders.
Building the brand and rolling out the digital infrastructure Launch of 350m 16-year bond Talent development across Intu International activity and purchase ofPuerto Venecia Evaluation of Boards performance Compliance statement Areas of focus in 2015 The main areas of focus for next Compliance with the UK Corporate year are: Governance Code The Company has, throughout the year Succession planning ended 31 December 2014, complied Board communication with all provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Risk Compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report, except for those required under DTR 7.2.
6 which arecontained in the Directors report.
57 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
