governance and remuneration g overnance review leaDerShip The Board sets the parameters and controls The 2012 UK corporate The Boards core responsibilities include setting in which the companys management may governance code the code British Lands strategic aims and leading the operate when undertaking the day-to-day company as it works to achieve these aims and running of the business.
These controls ensure is the standard against which attain long-term, lasting success.
The Board that decisions are taken by people with the we were required to measure focuses on strategy throughout the year: the correct authority to do so.
annual strategy Days, described in the box on The division between major decisions reserved the facing page, provide a principal opportunity for Board approval and other decisions to do this.
Progress against, and the This section of the corporate delegated to the executive Directors is formally appropriateness of, the agreed strategy are documented.
The executive Directors make governance report outlines considered at Board meetings during the year, decisions within these predefined parameters.
how we have applied the codes in light of company performance and changes Decisions that would normally fall within to the external environment.
principles and provisions: these parameters may still be taken to the To ensure that no one individual has full Board for approval where such decisions a copy of the code is available unfettered powers of decision, there is a relate to activities outside the ordinary course to view at www.
written division of responsibilities between of business.
specialised management the chairman responsible for leading the committees deal with their specific areas of The Board considers that the Board and the chief executive responsible responsibility, before making decisions where for running the business, which has been they have authority to do so, or recommending company has fully complied approved by the Board.
actions for Board-level approval, if this is with the code throughout the required.
a key consideration when making responsibilities of the Board each decision hinges on whether the proposed year ended 31 march 2014.
P64 action is aligned with the strategy the Board has developed.
The executive Directors, led by the chief executive, are responsible for ensuring that the management committees business is run in accordance with the Boards P65 strategy.
The relatively small number of employees at British Land means that the The chairman meets with individual Directors executive Directors are involved in, or aware outside of formal Board meetings, as part of of, all major activities of the group hence they each Directors continuing contribution to the are extremely well placed to ensure that actions delivery of the companys strategy to achieve are aligned with the Boards strategy.
This is superior returns for shareholders.
This process exemplified in the process by which investment also allows for open, two-way discussion about opportunities are appraised, see investment: the effectiveness of the Board, its committees sticking to our strategy on the facing page.
and individual Directors, both executive and non-executive.
By these means, the chairman is continually aware of the views of individual key acTiviTieS of The BoarD 2013 14 Directors and can act as necessary to deal regular agenda items included: key agenda items also considered with any issues relating to Board effectiveness in the year included: before they become a risk to the company.
outcomes of the Board strategy Days, and feedback.
acquisitions, including: culTure anD compoSiTion reports of the activities of the audit, the majority of Paddington central: and of The BoarD remuneration and nomination 50% of southgate shopping centre, Bath.
The composition of any Board is fundamental committees.
if it is to provide strong and effective leadership: sales, including: chief executives management reports: our non-executive Directors provide a breadth Puerto venecia, Zaragoza: quarterly updates on the business.
of knowledge, skills and experience, as detailed in their biographies.
The nomination Bon accord and st nicholas shopping Updates on the portfolio, including committee is responsible for reviewing the centre, aberdeen: and developments, acquisitions and disposals.
composition of the Board and Board-level eastgate shopping centre, Basildon.
committees, to assess whether the balance Financings of 1.5 billion: of skills, experience, knowledge and risk appetite.
independence is appropriate and enables them Us Private Placements: and results of the Board performance to operate effectively.
During the year the appraisal and feedback.
syndicated bank facilities, including committee identified the need to appoint a new 785 million revolving credit facility reappointment of Directors at the independent non-executive Director to take signed in april 2014.
on the role of chairman of the audit committee, leading to the appointment of Tim score.
The Future-proofing the retail portfolio.
procedure for the appointment of new Directors Launch of whiteley shopping, hampshire.
approval of year-end results, the annual is rigorous and transparent: more detail on report and accounts, the agm circular Development pipeline.
Tim scores appointment can be found in the and dividends.
report of the nomination committee.
68 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration Board biographies The Board culture is one of openness and overview of maTTerS reServeD P6667 constructive debate: the Directors voice for full BoarD approval their opinions in a relaxed and respectful Tim Scores appointment Transactions and financing arrangements environment, allowing coherent discussion.
The chairman is responsible for maintaining this culture.
he does so by ensuring information employee share and option schemes.
non-executive Directors are appointed of an appropriate quality is provided in for specified terms and all Directors offer issue of securities.
a timely manner before Board meetings: themselves for election or re-election by the opportunity to properly consider such Documents for distribution to shareholders shareholders at the annual general meeting information in advance leads to focused and the annual report and accounts.
each year, if the Board, on the recommendation discussion in the boardroom.
when running of the nomination committee, deems it Dividends.
Board meetings the chairman maintains a appropriate that they remain in office.
collaborative atmosphere and ensures that all establishing authority levels below those we continue to have a strong mix of Directors contribute to debates.
The chairman of the Board.
experienced individuals on the Board, with the arranges informal meetings and events majority being non-executive Directors who throughout the year to help build constructive are independent and can offer an external relationships between the Board members.
inveSTmenT: perspective on the business and constructively STicking To our STraTegy The high calibre of debate and the participation challenge the executive Directors, particularly of all Directors, executive and non-executive, when developing the companys strategy.
executive Directors are is a quality that was highlighted in our most The non-executive Directors scrutinise the recent external Board evaluation, and involved throughout the performance of management in meeting their reiterated in the two subsequent internal Board agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the investment process and evaluations.
These characteristics allow the reporting of performance.
They satisfy alignment with the Boards Board to utilise the experience and skills of the themselves of the integrity of financial individual Directors to their maximum potential information and that financial controls and strategy is considered from and make well-considered decisions that are systems of risk management are robust and the initial discussion of a in the best interest of the company.
transaction, right through The STraTegy DayS to final approval.
The annual strategy Days are attended by areas focused on at the february 2014 the full Board and the executive committee.
The executive Directors and senior executives corporate strategy: performance, All new investment opportunities are discussed deliver a number of presentations to the progress and pace.
at weekly deal sourcing meetings, attended by Board, providing an in-depth analysis on Executive Committee members and investment Finance strategy.
all aspects of the business and the external executives.
Attractive deals that are in line environment.
The strategy Days are an London strategy: performing with strategy are selected to be investigated and analysed in detail by project teams.
opportunity to discuss, challenge and develop in a competitive market: the companys strategy.
offices: as well as considering the group as a residential.
whole and the overall corporate strategy, 2. consideration is given to each part of the Development: Project teams assess whether investment groups current and prospective portfolio, opportunities should be pursued, conducting replenishing the development pipeline.
detailed property and corporate due diligence: retail strategy: ongoing dialogue with relevant Executive The days are carefully structured to achieve Committee members takes place throughout a balance between presentations and time future-proofing the retail portfolio.
Developing people at British Land.
The strategy Days also provide an opportunity for the full Board to consider succession planning, at Board-level and cascaded down 3.
Investment opportunities with potential are through the senior executive and executive presented for Investment Committee approval.
Depending on the size and nature of a transaction, the Investment Committee can approve the proposed transaction outright or recommend it for approval by the full Board if this is required.
Investment opportunities are presented to the full Board for approval, when required.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 governance and remuneration go vernance review c onTinUeD The Board considers that aubrey adams, current and future business prospects.
The internal review conducted in 2013 14 simon Borrows, Dido harding, william The chairman does not believe that the took the format of an anonymous survey, Jackson, Tim score and Lord Turnbull are appointment has had an adverse effect on in which the Directors were required to independent.
in making this determination, chris griggs ability to discharge his duties respond to a series of statements covering the Board has considered whether each as chief executive of British Land.
other the following areas: Director is independent in character and external appointments of the Directors are role and organisation of the Board: judgement, and whether there are relationships disclosed in their biographies.
or circumstances which are likely to affect, agenda: The Directors are required to notify the or could affect, the Directors judgement.
company of any potential conflicts of interest corporate governance: The Board believes that the non-executive that may affect them in their roles as Directors Directors biographies demonstrate that they non-executive Directors: of British Land.
all potential conflicts of interest are of the stature and experience required to are recorded and reviewed by the full Board executive Directors: properly perform their roles as independent at least annually.
any conflicts of interest that non-executive Directors.
Following this years information: materialise in the course of the companys Board evaluation, the Board believes each business are therefore identified and addressed monitoring company performance: non-executive Director standing for election appropriately.
or re-election at the next agm continues Board leadership and culture: and to effectively fulfil and remain committed to The non-executive Directors are kept well Board appraisal process.
their role within British Land.
The terms and informed of the key developments in the conditions of appointment of non-executive business by both the executive Directors and The results of the 2013 14 Board evaluation Directors are available for inspection at the other senior executives, through regular were marginally improved from the previous year, showing strong agreement with the companys registered office and at the agm.
reports include management reports delivered by the chief statements and concluding that the Board was functioning effectively.
effecTiveneSS executive and updates from the risk regular Board and Board-level committee committee and corporate responsibility in addition to the survey, peer reviews took meetings are scheduled throughout the year, committee.
place at a number of private meetings between and the Directors ensure that they allocate Throughout the year presentations and reports the Directors.
The chairman met each nonsufficient time to discharge their duties on specific aspects of the business and specific executive Director individually to discuss their effectively.
Board meetings may be held at assets are also delivered, along with updates contribution to the Board and the senior short notice, when Board-level decisions on the regulatory and external environment, independent Director met with the other nonof a time-critical nature need to be made.
executive Directors to discuss the performance non-executive Directors letters of of the chairman.
The remuneration committee appointment set out the time commitments care is taken to ensure that information is was provided with a written appraisal of the expected and each Directors attendance circulated in good time before both Board and chief executives performance by the record shown on page 71 is considered when committee meetings whenever possible, and chairman, and was provided with a written assessing whether they should stand for that reports are presented clearly and contain appraisal of the performance of the executive reappointment by shareholders.
Fees payable the appropriate level of detail to allow valid Directors by the chief executive.
to non-executive Directors are dependent conclusions to be drawn.
The group secretary on their level of attendance at Board and ensures good information flows within the BoarD Training anD DevelopmenT committee meetings.
Board and its committees, and between senior British Land provides for all Directors a management and non-executive Directors, The chairman considers that all the Directors tailored and thorough induction, including the and is responsible for advising the Board on all continue to devote sufficient time to discharging opportunity to meet with senior executives governance matters, through the chairman.
their duties to the required high standard and to be given an overview of their specific areas remain committed to their roles.
British Lands The non-executive Directors are therefore able of responsibilty within the business, and policy is to allow executive Directors to take to monitor the management of the business the opportunity to visit the companys key one non-executive directorship at another and the implementation of the strategic aims properties and developments.
FTse 100 company, subject to British Land effectively, and are able to assess the suitability The company also offers Directors Board approval.
with the approval of the of the current strategy and the performance of opportunities to update and refresh their British Land Board, chris grigg was elected the chairman and executive Directors.
knowledge on an ongoing basis, to enable them as a non-executive director of Bae systems plc to continue fulfilling their roles as Board on 1 July 2013.
The chairman believes the BoarD evaluaTion members and committee members effectively.
appointment is beneficial to the Board by The effectiveness of the Board is reviewed This includes training opportunities and further increasing chris griggs wider experience, annually, with an independent, externally visits to the companys assets, as required.
particularly in relation to the application facilitated review being conducted at least once regulatory and environmental updates are of advanced technology and in relation to every three years.
The latest external review delivered to the Board and relevant committees government-level relationships around the was conducted in 2011, with the next due to by external speakers, including corporate world, which are critical to British Lands take place in 2014 15. governance updates.
70 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration remuneraTion The annual report and accounts is compiled The maintenance of the companys risk The companys remuneration Policy is by the relevant responsible individuals management and internal control systems is designed to attract and retain the best people to across the company.
specific sections the responsibility of the Board, as is ensuring the company, allowing us to maintain a strong are reviewed by Department heads and that they continue to operate effectively.
and effective Board and leadership team.
executive committee members as appropriate, The Board combines a top-down risk review ensuring that all key stakeholders across with a complementary bottom-up approach to The Policy is also structured to complement the business are involved.
The executive ensure that risks are fully considered.
as well our strategy, linking a significant proportion of Directors are closely involved in drafting and as complying with the code, the best practice executive Directors remuneration to corporate reviewing their relevant sections of the recommendations in internal control: and individual performance.
The Policy is report, before formally signing them off.
guidance to Directors have been adopted.
developed by the remuneration committee and Finance and company secretariat teams internal control and risk management will be presented to shareholders for approval conduct a robust due diligence process, processes apply equally to all entities which at the agm in 2014. verifying key statements made within the British Land administrates, including all report.
The full report is then reviewed material joint ventures and funds.
remuneration policy thoroughly by the audit committee, before P8493 British Lands approach to risk, including the it is presented to the Board for approval.
roles of the Board and the risk committee The procedure undertaken to enable the in setting risk appetite and monitoring risk accounTaBiliTy Board to provide the fair, balanced and exposure, is described in managing risk in The Board is responsible for preparing the understandable confirmation to shareholders delivering our strategy.
annual report and accounts and, as confirmed has been reviewed by the audit committee.
in the Directors responsibility statement, the The process has been enhanced this year, with managing risk in delivering our strategy Board believes that this annual report and P3637 the addition of a specific meeting between the accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Finance Director, head of investor relations and and understandable, and provides the Formal and transparent arrangements exist the group Financial controller to review and information necessary to assess British Lands for considering how corporate reporting, risk document the key considerations undertaken to position and prospects.
The basis on which the management and internal control principles ensure that information presented is fair, company creates and preserves value over the are applied and for maintaining an appropriate balanced and understandable.
a report detailing long-term is described in the business model.
relationship with the companys auditor.
those considerations was reviewed by the audit committee alongside both a summary of the Directors responsibility statement The groups internal control system is built P110 detailed procedures undertaken and the annual on the following fundamental principles, report and accounts.
and is subject to review by internal audit: Business model P1415 a defined schedule of matters reserved riSk managemenT anD inTernal for approval by the full Board: conTrol The Board determines the nature and extent a detailed authorisation process: no material of the significant risks it is willing to take in commitments are entered into without achieving the companys strategic objectives.
thorough review and approval by more than one authorised person: DirecTorS aTTenDance aT BoarD anD BoarD-level commiTTee formal documentation of all significant meeTingS During The year enDeD 31 march 2014 transactions: audit remuneration nomination a robust system of business and financial Director main Board committee committee committee planning: includes cash flow and profitability John gildersleeve 8 8 1 1 forecasting and scenario analysis performed chris grigg 8 8 on major corporate, property and financing Lucinda Bell 8 8 proposals: charles maudsley 8 8 a robust process for property investment appraisals: Tim roberts 8 8 monitoring of key outcomes, particularly aubrey adams 7 8 6 6 expenditure and performance of significant simon Borrows 8 8 6 6 investments, against budget and forecast: Dido harding 8 8 4 4 1 1 clearly defined policies and review of actual 1 william Jackson 7 8 3 3 4 4 performance against policies: 2 0 0 0 0 Tim score benchmarking of property performance 3 richard Pym 2 3 3 3 against external sources such as the investment Property Databank: Lord Turnbull 8 8 4 4 1 1 key controls testing: 1 william Jackson was appointed a member of the audit committee for the interim period between richard Pyms resignation and Tim scores appointment.
a comprehensive property and corporate 2 Tim score was appointed a non-executive Director and chairman of the audit committee on 20 march 2014. insurance programme: and no Board or audit committee meetings took place between his appointment and the year-end.
3 richard Pym resigned as a non-executive Director and chairman of the audit committee on 5 september 2013. a formal whistle-blowing policy.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 governance and remuneration go vernance review c onTinUeD The report of the audit committee provides The group has substantial headroom against communication with investors and analysts more detail on the internal control system that covenants on unsecured banking facilities and is an ongoing process throughout the year.
operated through the year, including the is not overly reliant on any single lender.
it also This includes regular scheduled investor approach to internal audit.
benefits from a secure income stream from relations events, summarised in the box leases with long average lease terms, and below, one-to-one and group meetings with the report of the audit committee is not over reliant on any single occupier or chairman and executive Directors and tours of P7478 industry group.
our properties, as well as regular contact with the investor relations department.
During the The Board reviews the effectiveness of the covenant ratio year, the chairman, chief executive, Finance groups system of internal control over financial P56 Director and our investor relations team met reporting annually, including that of material with representatives from over 170 institutions.
During the course of as a consequence of these factors, the The chairmans meetings are part of a continuing its review of the risk management and internal Directors believe that the group is well placed programme to build a strong two way dialogue control systems over financial reporting, the to manage its financing and other business with our biggest shareholders.
The full Board Board has not identified, nor been advised of, risks satisfactorily in the current economic plans to attend the annual general meeting, a failing or weakness which it has determined environment.
The Directors have a reasonable which provides an opportunity for all to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation expectation that the company and the group shareholders to question the Directors in person.
in respect of necessary actions is not required.
have adequate resources to continue in Lord Turnbull has been appointed senior operational existence for the foreseeable a number of policies are in place to ensure independent Director, and is available to future and therefore continue to adopt the that the company not only meets its legal address concerns shareholders may wish going concern basis in preparing the annual obligations, but also behaves ethically, acts to raise other than via the usual channels report and accounts.
with integrity and protects its assets from the of the chairman, chief executive or other unlawful activities of others.
relaTionS wiTh ShareholDerS an anti-Bribery and corruption Policy, a The Board remains committed to maintaining competition Policy and a Fraud Policy and significant emphasis is placed on the open channels of communication with investigation protocol.
all employees are made importance of feeding shareholder views, shareholders.
it is important to us that aware of the policies and procedures in place, both positive and negative, back to the Board.
shareholders understand the companys with understanding enhanced by staff a written investor relations report which strategy and objectives: these must be communications and training.
The need for includes direct market feedback on activity explained clearly and shareholders feedback and appropriateness of policies guiding the during the period is presented at each must be heard and the issues and questions conduct of business is regularly reviewed.
scheduled Board meeting for discussion raised properly considered.
shareholder opinions are going concern British Land has a dedicated investor relations also given due consideration throughout The groups business activities, together team which reports to the Finance Director.
with the factors likely to affect its future performance and position are set out in the key inveSTor relaTionS acTiviTieS During The year incluDeD strategic report.
The financial position of the may 2013 Full-year results presentation for 2012 13. group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Full-year roadshow, London and Us.
borrowing facilities, together with the groups financing policy, are described in the June 2013 roadshow including private client lunch, scotland.
performance review Financial review P5155 July 2013 Q1 interim management statement investor call.
Financial policies and principles P5658 annual general meeting.
The group currently has considerable undrawn debt facilities and cash deposits which are investor conference, new York.
September 2013 expected to be sufficient to meet its financing investor day showcasing key retail assets.
The groups Property tour, London.
recent record of raising 1.5 billion of financing november 2013 half-year results presentation.
over the last 12 months gives the Directors half-year results roadshow, London.
confidence in the groups ability to raise further finance as and when required.
January 2014 Q3 interim management statement investor call.
investor lunch with head of retail, London.
roadshow, mid-atlantic, new York, Boston.
72 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration The British Land website was re-launched Following the Boards appointment of a new The benefit of diversity, both on the Board and in may 2013, with the aim of making it more hr Director in July 2013, British Land has throughout the company, continues to be a key informative and accessible for shareholders.
implemented a number of initiatives to help consideration when searching for candidates results and other key announcements are develop our employees and grow internal for Board and other appointments.
in addition, now accompanied by short videos, providing talent, reinforcing the company culture of the company continues to support the information on a timely basis to both retail excellence and embedding values and Pathways to Property programme, which aims and institutional shareholders.
a number behaviours to drive a high performance culture.
to increase diversity within the property of case studies, covering topics that range as a relatively small company in terms of industry as a whole by attracting students from from profiles of our key assets to corporate number of employees we are proud to be able diverse backgrounds into the property sector.
responsibility activities, are also available to invest in our people on an individual basis, to view online.
a facility on the website allows taking time to understand specific Diversity policy P7981 all shareholders to ask questions directly, requirements to progress careers and enhance at any time.
more information is provided in the report of the funDing To chariTy anD gooD cauSeS contact British land nomination committee.
British Land has a charity and community www.
com contacts Funding Policy which states that giving is Developing people at British land focused on young people, education, training, we are pleased with the level of engagement P81 employment and local regeneration.
with shareholders achieved during the year, wellbeing particularly in relation to the new Long-Term charity funding policy P28 incentive Plan recommended for adoption by www.
com crpolicies shareholders at the annual general meeting we have well-established all-employee share in 2013.
Following detailed consultations we allocate funding to national, regional and schemes to incentivise employees at all levels the new plan was adopted by shareholders local community causes, with most funds going in the company, and align their interests with with over 96% votes cast in favour.
to support initiatives around our properties those of shareholders by building a holding and developments.
The Board also recognises the important of British Land shares.
in the UK, separate contribution of providers of capital other than pension fund reports are made available The charity and community committee, which shareholders, namely our lenders and bond to members.
approves all spend under the charity and holders.
we maintain a regular and open community Budget, is chaired by edward cree, dialogue with our lenders to help us understand STaff Turnover senior retail asset manager, and reports to their investment appetite and criteria.
the executive committee on an annual basis.
2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 head office 32 15% 28 13% 24 12% The executive committee approves the employeeS Broadgate estates 42 20% 31 16% 16 8% companys charity and community Funding having expert people at British Land is one of Policy and the annual Budget.
Donations during the four core focuses of our business model.
Total average 74 17% 59 14% 40 10% the year totalled 1,120,699, compared with This applies both to the individuals on the Board 1,079,305 in the previous year.
British Land with the responsibility for leading the company, does not make any donations to political reporTaBle acciDenTS and the employees who work throughout organisations.
acroSS our porTfolio British Land.
2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 expert people British Land 3 2 P2829 occupied 1 demises we encourage a high degree of employee at our managed 32 47 54 involvement in the company and provide properties regular information on business activities and explanations of strategy through company rate per 100,000 0.12 0.24 0.35 meetings, training sessions, internal hours worked on 2 communications and an annual company our developments conference.
employee feedback is also 1 British Land occupied demises refers to space strongly encouraged.
occupied by British Land, Broadgate estates Ltd and The source.
During the year a new management committee, 2 on our developments, there were six reportable the operations committee, comprising the accidents across 5,148,238 working hours in executive committee and heads of specific 2013 14 compared to 15 reportable accidents business functions, was established to assist across 6,215,235 working hours in 2012 13. the executive committee with operational matters arising in the day-to-day management of the business.
The committee forms a link between the executive committee and wider teams of employees, enhancing the flow of information around the company, both upwards and downwards, to improve the strategic and tactical decisions that are made.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73
