S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration r ePorT oF The nom inaTion commiTTee changeS To The BoarD anD compoSiTion of The BoarD BoarD-level commiTTeeS The committee considers that the Board During the year the nomination committee consists of individuals with the right balance has spent significant time discussing and of skills, experience and knowledge to provide recommending changes to the Board and strong and effective leadership of the company.
Board-level committees outside of formal The majority of the Board, excluding the meetings, including consulting other Board chairman, are independent non-executive members and working with russell reynolds Directors, and the Boards collective associates, an external search agency.
experience covers a range of relevant sectors, as illustrated in the maintaining a Balanced on 5 september 2013 richard Pym stood down Board box on the next page.
as well as a as a non-executive Director of British Land, breadth of property and financial experience, following his appointment as chair of The cothe Board members have personal experience operative Banking group and The coof working in the retail and corporate operative Bank.
richard Pym was chairman environments that are typical of many of our of the audit committee and a member of the occupiers.
nomination committee before standing down.
Dear ShareholDer, The nomination committee identified the Board biographies welcome to the report of the need to appoint a new non-executive Director P6667 to broaden the Boards collective experience nomination committee.
The and add a fresh perspective to boardroom Board evaluation principal responsibilities of the discussions regarding the companys strategy, P70 position and prospects.
The time commitment committee and the key areas Tim score will stand for election and all required by the company from the chairman discussed in the year ended of British Lands other Directors will retire of the audit committee is such that the and submit themselves for re-election by 31 march 2014 are highlighted nomination committee decided that an shareholders at the 2014 annual general external candidate would be best placed to in the box on the page 81. meeting.
The committee believes that all devote sufficient time to the role in the longthe Directors continue to demonstrate term.
The committee also considered that commitment to their roles as Board and the new appointee should have the appropriate committee members, continue to discharge degree of financial experience and expertise their duties effectively and each make to fulfil the role of chairman of the audit a valuable contribution to the leadership committee effectively.
Following a rigorous selection process, detailed in the box on the next page, Tim score DiverSiTy policy was appointed a non-executive Director British Land pays full regard to the benefits of British Land and chairman of the audit of diversity, including gender diversity, both committee on 20 march 2014.
Tim scores when the nomination committee is searching biography on page 67 details his financial for candidates for Board appointments and experience working at companies in a when the company is searching for candidates range of different sectors: he is a chartered for other appointments.
accountant and has nine years experience of chairing the audit committee at national nominaTion commiTTee memBerS express group PLc.
John gildersleeve The nomination committee recommended chairman of the nomination committee a number of changes to Board-level committee memberships following richard Pyms lord Turnbull resignation to maintain an appropriate member balance of skills, knowledge, experience 1 Dido harding and independence on each committee and member to remain compliant with the UK corporate governance code.
1 richard Pym was a member of the committee until 5 september 2013, when he stood down as a nonaubrey adams undertook the role of chairman executive Director of British Land and Dido harding of the audit committee between richard Pyms was appointed as a member of the committee.
departure and Tim scores appointment, and william Jackson joined the audit committee as a member for the period between richard Pyms resignation and Tim scores appointment.
Dido harding was appointed a member of the nomination committee, replacing richard Pym.
Throughout the year the membership of each Board-level committee has comprised independent non-executive Directors to the extent required by the code.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 governance and remuneration r ePorT oF The nominaTion commiTTee c onTinUeD GENDER DIVERSITY AT BRITISH LAND The Board agrees with the conclusions of the appoinTmenT of Tim Score aS Davies review of women on the Board that a non-execuTive DirecTor anD Board of Directors greater efforts should be made in improving chairman of The auDiT commiTTee Male the gender balance of corporate boards and Female 18% During the year the nomination committee that quotas for female Board representation identified the need to appoint a new nonare not the preferred approach.
The company executive Director to the Board of British currently has two female directors: Dido Land, with the appropriate experience and harding, who was appointed as a non- 82% available time commitment to take on the executive Director in January 2010, and role of chairman of the audit committee.
Lucinda Bell, who was appointed Finance Senior Executives Director in may 2011.
This currently represents The nomination committee was chaired Executive Committee and Operations Committee 18% female Board membership.
by John gildersleeve, chairman of the Male company, during the selection process.
19% Female The promotion of women to Board and other senior positions within the company 1 russell reynolds associates, an external is dependent on the recruitment, development search agency, was engaged by the and retention of women in the workforce, committee to assist with the selection 81% both within the company and more widely process.
The role of russell reynolds throughout the business and professional associates included: community.
Employees of the Company preparing a detailed role specification, Male our recruitment practices have long included incorporating the expected time Female a commitment to diversity and gender equality, commitment and duties to be performed and will continue to do so throughout the 43% as a non-executive Director of the 57% company.
as of 31 march 2014, British Lands company and as chairman of the audit employees comprised 96 females and 127 committee: males: of the employees considered to be searching for and benchmarking executives, 39 are female and 98 are male.
candidates for the role: and senior executives, comprising the executive committee and operations committee, MAINTAINING A BALANCED BOARD producing detailed profiles of the consisted of six females and 26 males.
These candidates, to be considered by the Composition of the Board are full time equivalent figures.
Non-Executive count at 31 march 2014 was 242.
9% Chairman During the committees search, candidates 36% Independent To encourage and help mothers return to work from a range of business backgrounds Non-Executive after childbirth, we offer enhanced maternity were considered, including both male and Directors leave payments and support flexible working Executive Directors female candidates.
55% patterns: currently 25 of our female employees The committee consulted with British take advantage of this facility.
we also offer Lands advisors throughout the process enhanced paternity leave payments and Length of Non-Executive Directors tenures and took detailed references.
support flexible working patterns for all Under 3 years parents and other employees whose personal Following this rigorous selection process, 14% 3 to 6 years 29% circumstances may make this beneficial.
Over 6 years the nomination committee recommended currently five men work flexibly and nine men that Tim score be appointed to the role.
took advantage of enhanced paternity leave The Board accepted the recommendation, during 2013 14.
Training and mentoring and Tim score was duly appointed on 57% programmes are provided to ensure that all 20 march 2014. our employees achieve their potential, taking Executive Directors appointments account of their diverse development needs.
1 russell reynolds associates have been engaged Internal appointments it is pleasing that our Finance Director, Lucinda by the company in a search consultancy capacity External appointments Bell, was an internal appointment, reflecting in the past: they do not provide any other services for the company.
the development of our own people.
50%50% The nomination committee seeks to increase the percentage of female Board members as quickly as we are able.
The speed at which we 1 can achieve this will be subject to the availability Directors core areas of expertise of suitable candidates and compliance with the Property 7% requirements of the equality act: the Board Finance 13% 40% Retail and consumer has a fundamental obligation to ensure that Public sector appointments are of the best candidates to promote the success of the company and we do not consider that it would be to the long-term 40% benefit of the company if appointments were made on any other basis.
subject to these 1 Some Directors are represented in more than requirements, we have an ongoing commitment one category.
to further strengthening female representation at Board and top management level.
80 The British Land Company PLC annual report and accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration principal reSponSiBiliTieS The policy throughout the company is a coaching and mentoring programme of The nominaTion commiTTee to employ the best candidates available in being introduced, which particularly every position, regardless of sex, race focuses on supporting female employees regular review of the structure, size ethnic origin, nationality, colour, age, religion as they develop their careers: and and composition of the Board.
or philosophical belief, sexual orientation, biannual chairman and ceo awards to recommendations to the Board with marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy, recognise employees contributions to the regard to Board changes and Board-level maternity, gender reassignment or disability.
business, in areas ranging from citizenship committee membership changes.
applications for employment by disabled to commercial acumen.
winners are persons are always fully considered, bearing in selected after a comprehensive peer succession planning for Directors and mind the aptitudes of the applicants concerned.
nomination process, which encourages in the event of members of staff becoming positive feedback to, and recognition of, identifying suitable candidates for Board disabled, every effort is made to ensure employees at all levels of the business.
vacancies, to be nominated for Board that their employment continues and that approval.
The policy provides that the training, career development reviewing the leadership needs of the and promotion of disabled people should, company.
as far as possible, be identical to that of John gildersleeve reviewing time commitments required other employees.
chairman of the nomination committee from non-executive Directors.
SucceSSion planning non-executive Directors letters of succession planning is a key area of focus appointment and recommendations for the nomination committee, and for each for re-election.
role potential successors have been identified for crisis, short, medium and long-term timescales.
successors for Board, senior key areaS formally DiScuSSeD executive and executive positions are anD revieweD By The commiTTee considered by the committee.
The annual During 2013 14 incluDe strategy Days are an opportunity for the committee to discuss succession planning review of Board and committees: in conjunction with the full Board of Directors.
structure, size and composition: and Developing people aT BriTiSh lanD skills, knowledge and experience The Board recognises the importance to ensure that they remain able of developing people at British Land, to discharge their duties and particularly in relation to succession planning responsibilities effectively and for senior positions within the company.
to the required high standard.
People development was a core topic discussed richard Pym stepping down as a at the Boards strategy Days in February non-executive Director of the company: 2014, as well as being considered by the nomination committee.
having expert consequent changes to Board-level people is one of the four core focus areas committee memberships: and of our business model.
the selection and appointment of Tim score as a non-executive Director expert people and chairman of the audit committee.
P2829 succession planning, including During the year a new Director of human identification of potential internal resources, Joff sharpe, was appointed and a candidates for senior vacancies which number of new initiatives are being developed may arise on a crisis, short, medium to recognise and grow internal talent, including: or long-term basis.
the introduction of a formal talent review recommendations to the Board regarding process to strengthen the companys Directors retiring for re-election by approach to identifying high-potential shareholders at the 2014 agm.
employees and tailoring development plans for them: recommendations to the Board for the renewal of the letters of appointment People management and Leadership of simon Borrows, william Jackson Development programmes being rolled out: and aubrey adams.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81
