governance and remuneration o Ur governance sTrUcTUre The BoarD The BoarD Develops strategy and leads British Land to achieve long-term success.
comprises the chairman, the chief executive, six independent non-executive Directors and three further executive Directors.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to Board-level and management committees.
Defined terms of reference for Board-level committees, formal documentation of powers delegated to executive Directors and clear reporting lines ensure that the Board receives all relevant information about the business and that decisions are made by people at the right level with the authority to do so.
Board biographies Business model Delivering our strategy P6667 P1415 P3035 Reports on activities to the Board Reports on activities to the Board auDiT commiTTee remuneraTion commiTTee BoarD-level commiTTeeS oversight of financial and narrative sets the remuneration of the reporting, internal control, risk chairman, chief executive and management systems, internal executive Directors.
comprises independent non-executive Directors: Lord Turnbull committee chairman, Dido harding comprises independent non-executive Directors: and william Jackson.
Tim score committee chairman, aubrey adams and simon Borrows.
report of the audit committee remuneration report P7478 P82107 Terms of reference Terms of reference www.
com about-us governance committees governance committees Biannual reports to the Supports the Audit Committee Executive Committee riSk commiTTee operaTionS commiTTee managemenT commiTTeeS manages strategic and operational supports the executive committee risk in achieving the companys with operational matters.
comprises executive committee members and senior individuals who head specific comprises executive Directors.
functions within the retail, offices, investment, chaired by Lucinda Bell.
Development, Finance, residential, strategy, investor relations, corporate communications and information systems departments.
managing risk in delivering our strategy P3637 principal risks P3841 62 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration responsibilities of the Board and management committees are outlined on the following pages Reports on activities to the Board nominaTion commiTTee Leads the process for Board appointments and evaluates composition of the Board.
comprises the chairman, John gildersleeve committee chairman and independent non-executive Directors: Lord Turnbull and Dido harding.
report of the nomination committee P7981 Terms of reference www.
com about-us governance committees Chief Executive presents a regular Management Recommends transactions Presents quarterly CR updates to the Board, plus Report on Managements activities to the Board for Board approval an annual review of CR strategy execuTive commiTTee inveSTmenT commiTTee corporaTe reSponSiBiliTy commiTTee Deals with the ongoing management reviews and approves capital acts as a custodian for corporate of the group.
comprises executive Directors and five senior comprises executive Directors.
comprises Lucinda Bell, committee chair, and executives: nigel webb, head of Developments: chaired by chris grigg.
four executives with defined areas of responsibility: Jean marc vandevivere, head of residential: Justin snoxall, head of Business group, attended by senior executives from the executive simon carter, head of strategy: Tony Braine, responsible for our managed portfolio and committee and the executives responsible for the group secretary: and Joff sharpe, human reporting: sarah cary, sustainable Developments transaction under consideration.
executive, responsible for developments: chaired by chris grigg.
anna Devlet, head of community, responsible for our community programme: and helen wyeth, group reporting manager, responsible for financial control.
executive committee biographies investment: Sticking to our strategy corporate responsibility at British land www.
com about-us P69 P42 leadership executive-committee www.
com responsibility The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 governance and remuneration o Ur governance sTrUcTUre c onTinUeD overview of reSponSiBiliTieS of The BoarD The BoarD The chairman non-execuTive DirecTorS The Board develops British Lands The chairman leads the Board and non-executive Directors work with and strategy and leads the company with ensures that it operates effectively: challenge the executive Directors in the the aim of achieving long-term success.
this includes setting appropriate agendas development of the companys strategy.
for Board meetings and ensuring that The Board determines the nature non-executive Directors provide an all matters are given due consideration.
and extent of the significant risks independent, external perspective on the it is willing to take in achieving its The chairman maintains a culture of business and contribute a broad range strategic objectives.
openness and debate in the boardroom of experience and expertise to the Board.
and builds constructive relationships The Board establishes control Board-level committees, each of between executive and non-executive mechanisms to ensure that the which has been delegated specific Directors, to allow in-depth discussion business is effectively managed.
responsibilities by the Board and to take place with participation from operates in accordance with defined The Board presents an accurate all Directors.
terms of reference, are formed representation of the companys The chairman ensures effective dialogue of non-executive Directors.
performance and future plans to takes place between shareholders shareholders in a way that is fair, and the Board, with the full Board being balanced and understandable, made aware of shareholder views.
and ensures that a satisfactory level of dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The chief execuTive anD execuTive DirecTorS The chief executive is responsible for the certain decisions may be made by the executive Directors areas of day-to-day management of the business executive Directors, or by the management responsibility within the business and for ensuring that the Boards strategy committees on which they sit.
The chief executive and executive Directors The management of the business is are responsible for updating the Board and undertaken by the chief executive and Board-level committees on the overall the executive Directors, exercising performance of the company and on specific powers delegated to them by the Board.
aspects of the business, as required.
chriS grigg lucinDa Bell charleS mauDSley Tim roBerTS Corporate performance Finance Retail portfolio Office portfolio Implementing strategy Risk Leisure portfolio Residential portfolio Communications Investor relations Investments Investments Public affairs Corporate responsibility Developments Developments Human resources Health and safety Property performance Property performance 64 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration our Board and committee structure is detailed on the previous page overview of managemenT commiTTeeS executive committee risk committee corporate responsibility committee The executive committee generally meets The risk committee meets at least quarterly, The corporate responsibility cr committee twice each month and its purpose is to deal and reports to the audit committee twice provides quarterly updates on cr to the Board, with the ongoing management of the group.
alongside an annual review of cr strategy.
During the year Lucinda Bell was appointed The committee considers day-to-day The committee manages strategic and as chair of the committee.
operational matters for running the business operational risk in achieving the companys and reviews the performance of the groups performance goals and recommends The committee acts as a custodian for cr strategy, reviewing performance and assets and development programme.
appropriate risk appetite levels to the Board.
internal procedures and cost control are monitoring progress against targets and key The committee monitors the companys initiatives.
The committee assesses emerging also considered by the committee.
risk exposure against the Boards target risk social, environmental and ethical issues to matters are often considered and discussed appetite and reviews the effective operation determine whether a response is required by the executive committee before being of risk management processes, including and considers social, environmental and recommended to the Board or Board-level risk identification, monitoring and mitigation.
governance risks, and the mitigating actions committees for approval in accordance that are in place.
The committee also reviews with the schedule of delegated authorities.
Health and Safety Committee cr communications activity.
any proposed Principal matters relating to planning, a health and safety committee, comprising changes in cr strategy are presented directing and controlling activities are staff with relevant responsibilities from across to the executive committee for approval.
the business and chaired by Lucinda Bell, meets quarterly to review performance against The committee receives and reviews reports Corporate Responsibility Panel targets and drive forward actions in pursuit from across the business, and discusses a separate corporate responsibility Panel, of the companys health and safety goals.
These reports include comprising four independent experts and health and safety committee reports health key performance metrics for retail, offices, chaired by chris grigg, meets twice annually and safety performance to the risk committee residential, Leisure and Finance.
alongside relevant internal representatives and contributes to the management report to from British Land.
The Panel receives the Board.
and provides expert comment on emerging operations committee social, environmental and ethical issues The operations committee was established and challenges British Lands cr strategy.
investment committee during the year and now meets at least The investment committee meets as required quarterly to assist the executive committee to review, approve or recommend capital with operational matters arising in the daytransactions: to-day management of the business.
acquisition and disposal of assets: The operations committee forms a link between the executive committee and wider investment in other companies, partnerships teams of employees at British Land.
heads and joint ventures: and of business functions are members of the proposed capital expenditure above operations committee and act as conduits 20 million.
for information between their teams and the executive committee members.
This helps major transactions require approval of the increase the flow of information throughout Board following the initial recommendation the company both upwards and downwards for approval by the investment committee in to improve overall understanding of the accordance with the approval limits established business and the reasoning behind by the Board.
and impacts of the strategic and tactical other formal Board approvals may also be decisions that are taken.
required, for example for proposed joint venture expenditure.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65
