CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ENSURING ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the year ended 31 December COMMITTEE 2014.
Although this is my first report as Chairman of the Committee, I have been a member of the MEMBERS Committee since May 2007.
I succeeded John Hirst who stepped down after last years Annual General Meeting AGM after nine years of service and I would like to thank John for his considerable contribution Jacques Espinasse to the work of the Committee.
Shortly after my appointment as Chairman of the Committee I undertook Chairman a development briefing focusing on the role of Audit Committee Chairman and more details are Gwyn Burr provided on this on page 65.
Judy Gibbons I fulfil the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code as the member of the Committee Anthony Watson nominated as having recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition, my fellow Committee members Pierre Bouchut are individuals who hold or have held senior office in business and have both the knowledge and Appointed experience to properly discharge their duties and a good understanding of the issues under consideration.
13 February 2015 We are supported in turn by members of the senior management of the Company and by the expertise of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, whose representatives regularly attend meetings.
In addition, the Committee met with Deloitte and the internal auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY without management Fair being present to enable full and frank discussion and to satisfy itself that the external and internal auditors All important elements had not been unduly influenced by management.
The Committee met three times during the year and attendance at these meetings is set out in the Balanced Companys report on compliance with the Code on page 94.
During the year, the Committee paid particular Consistency achieved attention to significant judgements in relation to the Groups financial statements.
These are significant by between the Strategic virtue of their impact on the Groups results and the remuneration of senior management.
The main areas Report and Financial of focus during the year are set out in table 48 on page 72.
An essential element of the Committees work during the year is the scrutiny applied to the valuation of the An appropriate balance Groups property portfolio.
Having carried out a review of the Committees schedule of meetings, I decided between statutory that an additional meeting would be held in January to allow the Committee extra time to review, debate and adjusted measures.
and challenge the valuation prepared by the Companys external valuer DTZ Debenham Tie Leung DTZ Adjustments are and also Cushman and Wakefield C&W who valued the premium outlet centres.
This January meeting clearly explained.
will be included in future in the Committees schedule.
Understandable The Committee satisfied itself that the Annual Report is a document which allows shareholders to assess Greater use of diagrams the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considered and briefer text.
a paper from management on how each of the elements highlighted on the left had been addressed.
Clear contents pages In addition the Annual Report was reviewed by a number of external parties as part of the process to aid navigation.
before the Committee made its recommendation to the Board that the Annual Report is fair, balanced Colour coding and understandable.
In December, the Committee carried out an assessment of its performance and, in its opinion, continues to perform its role efficiently and effectively.
I am confident that the Committee continues to satisfy itself that Code Compliance the internal and external systems of control and safeguards at Hammerson are working well throughout in a separate section.
the business to ensure that risks are mitigated and managed appropriately.
I would like to thank Deloitte, on behalf of the Board, for the continuing high quality of the audit services Clear cross references.
they have provided to the Group during the year.
Jargon is avoided where possible.
Jacques Espinasse Chairman of the Audit Committee www.
com 71 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Table Fig 48 Significant financial judgements During the year, the Committee considered the appropriateness of significant financial judgements made in connection with the financial statements as set out below: Significant financial judgement considered during the year Why this issue is considered significant How the Committee addressed the issue Valuation of the The valuation of the Groups property The Committee has a robust process in place to satisfy itself that Groups property portfolio, including those held in the external valuation of the Groups property portfolio is appropriate.
portfolio excluding joint ventures, is a key risk due to its The Committee recognises that the Group operates in two liquid and Premium Outlets significance in the context of the Groups mature markets, the UK and France, in which there are well established net asset value.
Although valuations are and respected valuation professionals.
The Committee reviewed the Please see page 114 for more details conducted externally by DTZ, the nature outcomes of DTZs valuations, challenged their assumptions and was about Valuations.
of the valuation process and estimates satisfied that procedures and methodologies used were appropriate.
The outcome The Committee is also familiar with the processes by which management of this judgement is also a key provides information to DTZ.
Current conditions and recent transactions determinant of the Groups results in the market were reviewed to provide context.
DTZ were asked and affects investment decisions.
to highlight any significant judgements and disagreements with management and the Committee satisfied itself of DTZs independence.
The Committee was satisfied that the valuation of the Groups property portfolio was prudent and reasonably based.
Accounting for During the year, the Group made several The Committee, in conjunction with Deloitte, reviewed and challenged property transactions acquisitions and disposals including managements accounting proposal and key judgements, and was interests in joint ventures.
There are satisfied that the approach adopted was appropriate.
Please see page 114 for more details risks in the accounting process for about property these complex transactions.
Premium Outlet The Group has a significant investment The Committee discussed the proposed accounting treatment for the investments in Value Retail VR and acquired a Groups interests in VR and VIA, which is based on the nature of the Value Retail 47% interest in VIA Outlets VIA during Groups control over those investments.
The Committee also reviewed and VIA Outlets 2014.
These investments are externally the accounting associated with the VIA acquisition and the valuations managed and due to the complexity of of each investment s property portfolio which are undertaken by Please see page 44 for more details the underlying structures, there is a risk C&W.
The Committee concluded that both investments had been about outlets.
of inaccurate and inconsistent reporting.
REIT status Maintenance of the Groups REIT status for The Committee reviewed compliance with UK REIT and French its UK operations and under the SIIC rules SIIC legislation and concluded that the Group continues to meet Please see page 125 for more for its French operations is dependent the requirements.
on compliance with certain conditions in each jurisdiction.
The beneficial tax regime resulting from REIT status has a significant impact on the Groups results.
Adoption of IFRS 11 The Group has adopted IFRS 11 in The Committee, in conjunction with Deloitte, has reviewed the joint arrangements 2014 which requires the Group to equity disclosure requirements.
Managements methodology, as presented account for its joint ventures previously in its paper to the Committee, was considered.
The Committee was Please see page 131 for more proportionally consolidated.
This satisfied that management has appropriately adopted the accounting details about joint change has a significant impact standard and explained the presentational impact of the new arrangements.
on the presentation of the Groups standard to shareholders in an appropriate manner.
Going concern A critical risk is the Companys solvency The Committee evaluated managements assessment of the and liquidity and the appropriateness appropriateness of the Group preparing its half-year and annual financial Please see page 54 for more details of preparing the Groups financial statements on a going concern basis and approved the Statement which about Going concern.
statements on a going concern basis.
The Committee considered the Groups liquidity by reviewing reports on the renewal and maturity profile of debt, forecast cash flows including the level of committed expenditure, funding requirements and contingent liabilities.
The Committee also considered these forecasts against the financial covenants in the Groups borrowing facilities and concluded that the going concern basis was appropriate.
72 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT for other services provided by Deloitte to the Company and Effectiveness of the external audit process confirmation is sought that the fee payable for the annual audit The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit is sufficient to enable Deloitte to perform its obligations in process during the year by monitoring Deloittes fulfilment of the accordance with the scope of the audit.
agreed audit plan and its reports on the significant matters and judgements that arose from the audit plan.
The Committee received During 2014 non-audit services provided by Deloitte to the Company regular feedback from management on the level of support provided included acting as reporting accountants for tax related work and the by Deloitte.
The Committee determined that Deloitte provides an Groups sustainability reporting.
Fees for non-audit services provided appropriate level of service delivered by a team which consistently to the Company by Deloitte for the year ended 31 December 2014 looks for ways to maintain and improve the high standards it sets itself.
During the year the Committee also considered the re-appointment of Deloitte and assessed their independence.
Risk management and internal control The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities in relation In forming its opinion of the independence and objectivity of to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment and the Deloitte the Committee reviewed: Groups compliance with the Code.
The independence safeguards operating within Deloitte: Throughout the year, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of Deloittes Audit Transparency Report for the year ended the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, including 31 May 2014: and financial, operational and compliance controls.
In particular the The extent of non-audit services provided by Deloitte.
Committee reviewed: Deloittes management letters: Deloitte or its predecessor firms have been the Companys external Internal audit reports, including monitoring the implementation auditors since the Company was founded in 1942.
Deloitte is required of recommendations arising from them: to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit at least every five years to protect auditor independence and objectivity.
Reports on the system of internal control and the risk Ian Waller, the current audit lead partner has been in place since April management framework: 2012 and is expected to continue until the conclusion of the financial The Companys approach to compliance with legislation and the statements for 2016.
Under the Companys current interpretation prevention of fraud: of the transitional arrangements for mandatory audit rotation, Business continuity and cyber risk: and the Company will be required to rotate the audit for the financial Gifts and entertainment and expenses registers.
In advance of that date the Committee will reflect on retendering the Auditors appointment.
Internal audit EY has provided an internal audit service to the Group since August The Committee has concluded that the external audit was carried 2013.
During the year the Committee has monitored the internal audit out effectively and efficiently with the necessary objectivity and process through management updates and reviewing EY reports, and independence.
It has recommended to the Board that Deloitte be EY has been challenged on its findings at Committee meetings.
The re-appointed at the 2015 AGM.
Committee continues to be satisfied with the service provided by EY since their appointment and has approved the continuation of Non-audit services EYs appointment as internal auditor for 2015.
Now that a full annual The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation internal audit cycle has been completed the Committee will review and monitoring of the Groups policy on the engagement of the more formally the effectiveness of EY during 2015. external auditor to supply non-audit services to the Group, the principal requirements of which are that: An annual programme of reviews of the controls established to mitigate the risk areas identified in the risk management framework The external auditor may not provide a service which places is undertaken to ensure that they are operating correctly.
During it in a position where it may be required to audit its own the year, internal audits were carried out on a number of business work, such as book keeping or valuation services: and processes, including: Some services may be provided in specific and exceptional circumstances and may include tax compliance work, due Shopping centre property management and operational controls: diligence and property related consultancy.
Each occasion is Car park controls: specifically assessed and authorised by an Executive Director Management of tenant credit risk: up to a limit of 50,000 and above that limit by the Chairman Joint venture management processes: and of the Audit Committee.
The full policy on non-audit services is available at These reviews and the implementation of recommendations arising www.
from them are overseen and coordinated by a Risk and Controls As shown in note 4 to the accounts on page 122, Deloittes Committee whose primary role is to ensure that internal control is remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 0.7m.
integrated into the Groups daily operations.
Consideration is given to the nature of and remuneration received www.
com 73 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Risk and Controls Committee This committee is not a committee of the Board but of executives RISK MANAGEMENT IN ACTION from across the business, including UK shopping centres, retail parks, ELEVATING RISKS French shopping centres and finance and project management teams At the beginning of 2014 each Group Executive Committee and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The committee reports member was asked to consider and submit their top five its activities to the Group Executive Committee.
The responses were reviewed and collated into a schedule for further discussion by the Group The role of the Risk and Controls Committee is to: Executive Committee and as a basis for reviewing the status Promote the application of the risk management framework of risks or capturing new risks in the risk management throughout the business: framework which is described in further detail on pages Encourage pro-active discussion of risk around the business: 55 to 59 of the Annual Report.
This exercise was repeated during the year and the summary review of risks was Manage the annual internal audit programme: compared against the key risks KPIs set out in the risk Consider the results and recommendations of reviews: and management framework to ensure that they were being Monitor the implementation of recommendations.
As a result some risk KPIs were updated.
The Risk and Controls Committee Anti bribery and corruption discussed the risks identified which were incorporated into The Committee oversees and monitors the policies and procedures the risk management framework with appropriate risk which form the core components of the Groups adequate mitigation steps identified.
procedures under the Bribery Act, including the Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing Policy.
During the year the Code of Conduct The intention of these regular reviews was to make the risk and the Whistleblowing Policy were reviewed, updated and management framework a dynamic document, promoting approved by the Committee.
discussions about how risks are evolving and whether they are being addressed effectively across the business.
The Code of Conduct explains how employees are expected to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the best interests of the Group and in line with its corporate and financial objectives.
This includes compliance with laws and regulations: acting fairly in dealing with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders: maintaining integrity in financial reporting: treating people with respect and operating within BOARD a control framework which includes environmental and health and safety policies.
A summary of the Code of Conduct is available on AUDIT the Companys website.
COMMITTEE The Whistleblowing Policy sets out a procedure by which employees may report suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
No reports of any such matters have been received during the year.
The Company subscribes to the independent charity, Public Concern EXECUTIVE at Work, so that employees may have free access to its helpline.
MANAGEMENT RISK RISK AND MANAGEMENT CONTROLS PROCESS COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT 74 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014
