ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 97 Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees principal The Board has established an Audit Committee responsibilities include: the Committee in accordance with the 2014 UK r eviewing the content of the annual report and Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In the financial statements and advising the Board on period from 1 January 2014 to 9 June 2014 Humphrey whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced Price was Chairman of the Committee with Richard and understandable and provides the information Mully and Stephen Gee as the other members.
necessary for shareholders to assess the With effect from 10 June 2014, following Stephen Companys performance, business model and Gees retirement from the Board, the Committee strategy: comprised Humphrey Price as Chairman with Richard Mully, Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington e nsuring that management has systems and as the other members.
All committee members procedures in place to ensure the integrity of are considered by the Board to be independent.
financial information: Humphrey Price, Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca d eveloping and implementing the policy for the Worthington all have recent and relevant financial provision of non-audit services by the auditor: experience as required by the Code.
No members of the Committee have links with the Companys m aintaining an appropriate relationship with external auditor.
the Groups external auditor, reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of Senior representatives of the external auditors, the external auditor, considering both the scope Executive Directors and senior management may be of their work and the fees paid to them for audit invited to attend the meetings at the Committees and non-audit services: discretion.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
c onsidering all matters relating to the recommendation for appointment, reThe Company believes the Committee contains the appointment, remuneration and terms of right balance of knowledge, skill and experience to engagement of the Groups external auditor: support the business in achieving its strategy.
m onitoring the Groups internal audit The Committee meets regularly during the year requirements, internal financial controls and the aligned to the financial reporting timetable.
During audit process: 2014 the Committee met three times for scheduled meetings and details of members attendance at each r eviewing the interim and full year financial meeting is shown on page 96. statements prior to their submission to the Board, applying the Groups accounting policies and any changes to financial reporting requirements: and ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee is satis ed that it receives suf cient, u ndertaking a review of the Groups risks on a reliable and timely information from management bi-annual basis.
in order to allow it to ful l its objectives and The full terms of reference of the Committee, responsibilities.
reviewed in 2014, are available on the Companys website www.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 98 Corporate Governance FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committee reviewed and considered In addition to requesting that the the following areas in respect of financial external auditor focus on these areas reporting and the preparation of the and report to the Committee with their findings the Committee also undertook interim and annual financial statements: the following actions: t he appropriateness of accounting policies used: T he Committee reviewed and challenged c ompliance with external and internal financial managements assumptions supporting the reporting standards and policies: valuation and presentation of the LTIP charge s igni cant judgments made: T he Committee reviewed the substance of the s tatutory disclosures: and HBI transaction and the presentation of the resultant gain w hether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
T he Committee considered the structure of the share placing and reviewed managements No issues arose from this review.
accounting In order to carry out this work, the Committee M embers of the Committee with relevant and considered the work and recommendations of the current expertise in property valuations met with Finance team led by the Finance Director, Richard valuers of the Group property portfolio to discuss Lowes.
In addition, the Committee received regular the valuations reports from the external auditor setting out their views of the accounting treatments and judgements R eviewed the underlying assumptions in the included in the financial statements.
The reports from going concern forecasts and the reasonableness the external auditor are based on a full audit of the of the stress tests carried out in relation to those annual financial statements and a review of the interim forecasts financial statements.
C onsidered the supporting evidence for recognition of overseas deferred tax assets.
The significant issues considered by the No issues arose from the above.
Committee in relation to the financial INTERNAL AUDIT statements were: The Committee keeps under review the Companys Valuation and presentation of the Long-Term need for an internal audit function.
The majority of Incentive Plan LTIP charge the processing and accounting for the day-to-day H BI Netherlands transaction transactions of the Group is outsourced to third-party suppliers.
Management maintain a close relationship C ash box accounting for the share issue with these suppliers and perform regular detailed I nvestment property valuations reviews of their work and report to the Committee if any signi cant concerns are raised by these G oing concern, debt maturity and covenant reviews.
The Committee regularly reviews the internal compliance controls to ensure that they are adequate for the R ecognition of overseas deferred tax assets size and complexity of the business.
On this basis the Committee believes that the internal procedures performed by management are performed to the same degree as an internal audit function.
The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor this position on an ongoing basis.
The Group has in place a formal whistle blowing policy and a dedicated independent whistle blowing hotline, as part of the arrangements set up and monitored by the Committee, so that employees are ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 99 Corporate Governance able to report any matters of concern.
The Board has Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are appointed Humphrey Price as the Board member based on the work undertaken and are not success related.
Consideration is given to the nature of and with responsibility for the Companys whistle blowing arrangements.
remuneration received for other services provided by Deloitte to the Group and con rmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is EXTERNAL AUDITORS AND THEIR INDEPENDENCE adequate to enable them to perform their obligations The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP in accordance with the scope of the audit.
In forming their opinion on the Committee has fully evaluated all non-audit work independence and objectivity of the external auditor, undertaken by Deloitte during the year against its the Committee takes into account the safeguards policy and remains comfortable that it is appropriate operating within Deloitte and they are asked to and the fees justi ed.
provide a formal statement of their independence to Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit the Company annually.
In addition, to safeguard that fees for the year are disclosed on page 45 independence, the Company ensures compliance with its policy governing the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor under which Deloitte may not EXTERNAL AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS provide a service which places them in a position The Committee has adopted a formal framework in where they may be required to audit their own work.
its review of the effectiveness of the external audit Speci cally, Deloitte are precluded from providing process which includes a review of the audit partner, services relating to bookkeeping or other services the audit team, the planning and scope of the audit, relating to accounting records or financial statements including identi cation of risks, the execution of the of the Group, financial information system design audit, the role of the Company and the management and implementation, appraisal or evaluation services, team in an effective audit process, communications actuarial services, any management functions, by the auditor with the Committee, how the external investment banking services, legal services unrelated auditor supports the work of the Committee, how to the audit, remuneration related services or the audit contributes insights and adds value, and the advocacy services.
independence and objectivity of the audit rm and the quality of the formal, audit report to shareholders.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding A comprehensive auditor assessment questionnaire the external auditor, the Committee is completed annually by each member of the reviewed: Committee and the Finance Director.
In addition, feedback is obtained from members of the senior t he scope of the audit as set out in the external management team, including the Joint Chief auditors engagement letter: Executives, and from the wider finance team.
The t he external auditors overall work plan: responses are collated and the resulting analysis considered by the Committee and any concerns t he external auditors fee proposal: are discussed with the external auditor.
Every third a report from the external auditor describing their year the external audit partner will meet with the arrangements to ensure objectivity and to identify, Committee Chairman and Finance Director to formally report and manage any con#icts of interest: and, discuss the quality of the external audit process using this evaluation framework and the outcome of those t he extent of non-audit services provided by the discussions will feed into the audit process for the external auditor to ensure that they are not placed subsequent three years.
in a position to audit their own work.
During 2014, services provided by Deloitte and their The effectiveness of the management associates to the Group, in addition to acting as teams role in the external audit process external auditor, included tax advice in respect of UK is assessed principally using the and overseas income tax, VAT and property tax.
The Committee believes that it receives particular bene t following performance measures: from certain non-audit services being provided by t he timely identi cation and resolution of areas of the external auditor due to their wide and detailed accounting judgement: knowledge of the Company and so discretion is used, t he quality and timeliness of papers analysing subject to the controls set out above, in obtaining such those judgements: services from Deloitte.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 100 Corporate Governance t he management teams approach to the value of The Directors have reviewed, as part of the year-end independent audit and the booking of any audit procedures, the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the period under review and up to the adjustments arising: and date of this report, the key element of which is a risk t he timely provision of draft public documents for management process whereby key risks to achieving review by the auditor and the Committee.
our objectives and strategy as well as related controls The Committee meets as considered necessary and monitoring procedures in respect of those risks with the external auditor without management being are identi ed in a risk register.
The risk register is present.
reviewed bi-annually and updated where appropriate and reports received from the executive on control During the financial year under report, the Committee procedures, and any areas for improvement are gave particular focus to the effectiveness of the audit agreed for subsequent action.
The Companys principal of the Groups HBI Netherlands transaction, the cash risks and uncertainties are reported in the Strategic box accounting for the share issue and accounting for Report on pages 21 - 22 and include the judgements the LTIP.
and uncertainties used in determining the fair value of investment property, #uctuations in foreign exchange EXTERNAL AUDITOR APPOINTMENT rates, taxation and the variability of rental income.
Deloitte have been the Groups external auditor This process is supported by: since 2006 when the Group prepared its first Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The audit partner M anagement structure responsible for the Groups audit matters is changed There is a clear organisational structure with wellevery five years in accordance with the Ethical fide ned lines of reporting and responsibility.
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The F inancial reporting current audit partner is in his second year in of ce.
The There are reporting disciplines including Committee is aware of the emerging requirements for performance monitoring and pro t and cash listed companies regarding mandatory tendering every forecasting.
ten years and has established a tendering policy based on these requirements which will apply to the financial I nvestment appraisal year ending 31 December 2015.
The Group has a clearly fide ned framework for capital and development expenditure and subsequent on-going appraisals.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and In addition, the key internal controls include regular managing the most signi cant risks faced by the meetings of the Board and Committee whose overall responsibilities are set out above.
Group has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and During the course of its reviews of the system of Accounts.
That process, which accords with the internal controls, the Board has not identi ed nor been Turnbull guidance and the Boards review of that advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has process, is set out below.
determined to be signi cant.
Therefore a con rmation The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for in respect of necessary actions has not been considered necessary.
the Groups system of internal controls, including the review of its effectiveness and suitable monitoring procedures, in order to safeguard shareholders investment and the assets of the Group as well as the integrity of its accounting records and provide reliable information for use within the business and for publication.
The Directors acknowledge that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Humphrey Price and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 March 2015
