ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 95 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Framework The Company complied with the main principles of duties.
The Board is also kept informed of changes the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in relevant legislation and changing commercial published by the Financial Reporting Council in risks, and each Director has access to independent September 2014 throughout the year with the professional advice and the advice and services of exception of, for the period to 10 June 2014, the the Company Secretary.
The Board meets at least five composition of the Remuneration Committee.
Prior times a year with ad hoc meetings as required.
to 10 June 2014 the Remuneration Committee comprised only two independent Non-Executive BOARD COMPOSITION Directors and the Chairman who was considered The Board currently comprises six independent independent on appointment.
The Company Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and recognises that only having two independent Nonthree Executive Directors.
The biographies of these Executive Directors on the Remuneration Committee Directors are set out on pages 71 - 73.
The Board is until 10 June 2014 did not comply with the provisions satis ed that the Non-Executive Directors, each of of the Code however, we believe that for a Company whom is independent from management and has no with only 111 employees, as at 31 December 2014, commercial or other connection with the Company, two independent Non-Executive Directors, one of are able to exercise independent judgement.
Richard whom held the role of Chairman of the Remuneration Mully is the Senior Independent Director.
Committee, together with the Non-Executive Chairman considered independent on appointment All directors, except Richard Mully, will offer was an appropriate composition.
Following the themselves for re-election at the 2015 Annual General appointments of Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Meeting.
Worthington to the Remuneration Committee on 10 June 2014 the composition of the Remuneration THE CHAIRMAN AND JOINT CHIEF EXECUTIVES Committee is currently Code compliant.
ROLES The Company complies with the Corporate The division of responsibilities between the role of Governance Statement requirements pursuant to Chairman, and the roles of the Joint Chief Executives, the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and is clearly fide ned, set out in writing and reviewed Transparency Rules by virtue of the information annually by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible included in this Corporate Governance Statement on for the leadership and effective working of the Board, page 94 together with information contained in the ensuring that all members of the Board, including Directors Report on pages 76 - 80. in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have an opportunity to contribute effectively, and that there is appropriate and timely communication with THE ROLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS shareholders.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and future development The Board has delegated executive responsibility of the Group and the ef cient management of its for running the Group to the Joint Chief Executives resources.
As a result, the Board has a schedule of who are responsible for the strategic direction and matters reserved for its decision, which includes operational and financial performance of the Group.
approval of annual budgets, acquisition and The appointment of new Directors is a matter for the divestment policy, approval of major capital projects, Board as a whole, following recommendations made the raising of finance and management policies.
The Board is supplied, in a timely fashion, with the information it needs to enable it to discharge its HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 96 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Remuneration Committee comprised Richard AUDIT COMMITTEE Cotton Chairman, James Hambro and Richard The Audit Committee comprised Humphrey Price Mully until 10 June 2014 and thereafter comprises of Chairman, Richard Mully and Stephen Gee until Richard Cotton Chairman, Melvyn Egglenton, James 9 June 2014 and, from 10 June 2014 onwards, Hambro, Richard Mully and Rebecca Worthington.
It is comprises Humphrey Price Chairman, Richard Mully, responsible for making recommendations to the Board Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington.
Senior on all aspects of remuneration policy for Executive representatives of the external auditor, Executive Directors.
The Committees report is set out on pages Directors and senior management may be invited 102 - 114. to attend the meetings.
The Committees report, including details of its responsibilities, is set out on The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, pages 97 - 100.
Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website www.
The Nomination Committee comprises, James Hambro Chairman, Humphrey Price, Richard BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Cotton, Richard Mully, and any one of the Joint Chief The schedule below sets out the number of principal Executives, Ian Watson and Morgan Jones, at any one Board and Committee meetings held during the year time.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the ended 31 December 2014 together with individual structure, size and composition of the Board and for attendance by Board Members at those meetings.
making recommendations in respect of any changes and appointments.
The Committees report, including details of its responsibilities, is set out on page 101.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee James Hambro 6 - 2 5 Ian Watson 6 - 1 - Morgan Jones 6 - 1 - Richard Lowes 6 - - - Stephen Gee 1 - - - Richard Mully 6 3 2 4 Richard Cotton 6 - 2 5 Humphrey Price 6 3 2 - Melvyn Egglenton 2 2 - 1 Rebecca Worthington 2 2 - 1 Number of meetings during the year 6 3 2 5 Stephen Gee was eligible to attend three Board meetings and 1 Audit Committee meeting prior to his retirement.
Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington were eligible to attend two Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and one Remuneration Committee meeting following their appointments.
In addition to Board meetings, the Board held a RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS number of dedicated strategy sessions during the The Executive Directors regularly meet with year to consider the development of the Companys institutional shareholders and analysts.
Private strategy and business model.
In between Board investors are also encouraged to meet with the Board meetings, the Board receives a monthly performance and to participate in the Annual General Meeting.
The pack containing detailed information on the entire Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration property portfolio.
Committees are available to answer questions, where appropriate, at the Annual General Meeting.
