NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT ENSURING THE BALANCE IS RIGHT NOMINATION DEAR SHAREHOLDER During the year the membership of the Committee was increased to include all of the Non-Executive COMMITTEE Directors.
This enables the Committee to assist the Board better in discharging its responsibilities including MEMBERS reviewing and evaluating the Boards balance and composition, and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any proposed recruitment and other changes.
David Tyler Chairman Gwyn Burr The Board is mindful of the need to ensure that both it and the Committees continue to have the right Terry Duddy balance of skills, experience and knowledge to carry out their duties and responsibilities effectively.
In particular, during the year and in light of the changes to the Board which are described on page 61, the Jacques Espinasse Committee has focused its attention on selecting potential new Non-Executive Directors to join the Judy Gibbons Board.
The appointment process was conducted with Spencer Stuart, an executive search consultant, Anthony Watson and culminated in the appointment of Pierre Bouchut as a Non-Executive Director on 13 February 2015.
Pierre Bouchut The appointment process is described in more detail on page 70.
Appointed 13 February 2015 The Committee has also considered a successor for Anthony Watsons role as Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, serves as an intermediary for the Directors when necessary and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have been unable to resolve through the normal channels or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Following my discussions with each of the members of the Committee, we decided that Terry Duddy had the right personal qualities and appropriate skills and experience for the role of Senior Independent Director.
The Board approved the proposal that Terry Duddy be appointed to the role from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
One of my key responsibilities in ensuring Board effectiveness is to review, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, succession planning for the Board.
During the year the Nomination Committee spent time considering the mix of qualifications, skills, experience and knowledge required for an effective Board.
Further detail on the mix of skills is described on page 69.
In addition, the Committee considered a progress report on the Companys approach to diversity and was pleased to note steps taken to promote diversity within the business, and short to medium-term objectives to focus further progress in this area were agreed.
You can read more details on the steps the Company has taken in the Our People section on page 35.
David Tyler Chairman of the Nomination Committee 68 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board balance and mix of skills During the year the Committee considered the composition of the Board.
Each Director brings a particular range of skills and expertise to the deliberations of the Board which facilitates constructive and challenging debate around the boardroom table.
Background professions of the Board include property, banking, auditing, treasury, retail, media, marketing and technology.
All Executive Directors have a strong property background as well as professional qualifications in their technical sphere and chart 44 below provides further details of the range of skills and expertise on the Board.
Following the 2013 external Board effectiveness review and subsequent discussion the Board had determined that at least one of the next two Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Board should be recruited with continental European experience and a wider background in areas such as investment, banking, financing and fund management or asset allocation.
These skills would complement the other skills on the Board to ensure an appropriate balance.
Pierre Bouchuts appointment to the Board in February 2015 adds to the Boards existing expertise in finance.
In addition, he brings considerable senior management experience in the retail sector and a broader European perspective.
Chart Fig 44 Around the boardroom table array of skills and expertise David Tyler David Atkins Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Leadership Strategic leadership Strategy and Finance Property Retail Investment and transactions Shareholder relations Gwyn Burr Anthony Watson Marketing Senior Independent Director Customer service Finance and Law for major retail brands Corporate Governance Financial services The Board is well managed and structured.
Timon Drakesmith Terry Duddy Appropriate relationships 1 Chief Financial Officer Strategic leadership exist between the Executive Finance and capital raising Customer behaviours and Non-Executive Directors.
Investment and transactions Retail markets Non-Executive Director Peter Cole Chief Investment Officer Judy Gibbons Property Digital technology Regeneration and Marketing Further biographical details development projects International Business for the Board are provided on Investment and pages 98 and 99 transactions Jean-Philippe Mouton Jacques Espinasse 2 Executive Director Finance and treasury Property and leasing French market French market International business Pierre Bouchut Marketing Finance French retail French property 1.
Additionally, responsible for France and marketing.
com 69 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Chart Fig 45 Appointment of Non-Executive Director Board gender diversity The Committee led the process that resulted in the appointment of Pierre Bouchut.
Key steps in the process are outlined below: Male The Committee considered three executive search consultancy Female 2 firms after which Spencer Stuart was appointed to facilitate and advise on the search.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Group and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive Search Firms.
The Committees preference was to recruit a senior business person with deep experience in the French market and ideally with expertise in both retail and finance.
Having considered 8 the knowledge and experience required a candidate profile was prepared.
It was agreed that the Chairman and the Company Secretary Chart Fig 46 review a range of candidates following which a long list Board composition was prepared for the Chairman by Spencer Stuart.
The Chairman met and interviewed seven candidates and Chairman reviewed the respective skills, experience and fit of each 1 Executive Directors of the candidates with the Boards candidate profile.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Members of the Committee interviewed the shortlisted candidates and the Committee made a recommendation to the Board.
5 The Board approved the appointment of Pierre Bouchut 4 on 13 February 2015.
Succession planning The Committee considered succession planning for the Executive Directors and other key roles in the organisation.
Due to the size of the organisation the Committee acknowledges that there are Chart Fig 47 not necessarily obvious successors for every senior role.
Managements Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors plans for the identification, development and readiness of talented successors to the Group Executive Committee and senior 0 3 years 3 6 years management roles are kept under review.
The Committee noted that 6 9 years managements review of individuals performance and potential took 2 2 account of the diversity profile within the organisation.
Succession planning provides an opportunity to ensure that Hammerson is developing a capable and diverse talent pool for the future.
For further details refer to the Our People section in the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 35.
Diversity 2 The Board considers that encouraging diversity, including gender diversity, within the Group, is an essential driver of long-term success As at 31 December 2014. and recognises that potential needs to be identified and nurtured at all levels of the organisation.
The charts on the right illustrate some of the factors the Committee takes into account when considering the composition of the Board.
As at the year end female representation on the Board stands at 20%.
The Committee will continue to consider gender diversity when recommending any future Board appointments.
However, future appointments will always be made on merit.
