REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Membership Considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies, Throughout 2014 the Committee consisted of Stuart Corbyn, assumptions, judgements and estimates used in the Simon Fraser and Richard Dakin under the chairmanship of preparation of the financial statements.
All Committee members are considered In discharging this responsibility, the Committee identified independent by the Board, having no day-to-day involvement the following significant issues and carried out the with the Company and not having been with the Company for procedures set out below: more than nine years.
Stephen Young is a qualified accountant Valuation of the Groups property portfolio and is considered to have appropriate recent and relevant T he Committee considers this to be the major area of financial experience.
The Committee has access to further judgement in determining the accuracy of the financial financial expertise, at the Companys expense, if required.
In view of this, meetings were held with the Groups external valuers before both the interim results Roles and responsibilities and the final results to consider the portfolio valuation The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the contained therein.
These meetings were led by members Companys website.
of the Committee with relevant and current expertise in Meetings property valuation.
Key matters discussed during the The Committee met four times during the year to discharge its meetings include the assumptions underlying the responsibilities.
These were attended by the Groups external valuation, any valuation which required a greater level auditor and members of the Groups senior management ofjudgement than normal, for example, development when invited.
Two additional meetings are held each year with properties and any valuation movements that were the Groups independent property valuers CBRE to consider notbroadly In line with that of the IPD benchmark.
the valuation of the property portfolio.
Theassumptions were also discussed with the auditors who have their own valuation experts.
Work of the Committee During the year, the Committee has carried out the following: T hese procedures enabled the Committee to be satisfied with the assumptions and judgements used in the Reviewed the Groups interim and annual financial valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
statements and the published interim management statements to consider whether, taken as a whole, they Compliance with REIT guidelines were each fair, balanced and understandable and whether T he Committee noted that, should the Group not comply they provided the information necessary for shareholders to with the REIT regulations, it could incur tax penalties or assess the Companys performance, business model ultimately be expelled from the REIT regime which would andstrategy.
have a significant effect on the financial statements.
The In carrying out this review, and subsequently reporting its Committee noted the frequency with which compliance opinion to the Board, the Committee had regard to the with the regulations was reported to the Board and following: considered the margin by which the Group complied.
The adequacy of the systems for bringing all the relevant B ased on this and the level of headroom shown in the information to the attention of the preparers of the report latest Group forecasts, the Committee agreed that no and accounts and the adequacy of the controls operating further action was required for the current year.
Accounting for borrowings and derivatives Whether the procedures for obtaining assurance over the T he Committee considered this to be an area of accuracy of the information were sufficient.
increased risk for the current year due to the option to The consistency of the reports within themselves and with redeem the Groups 2.75% convertible bond 2016 being each other and whether they are in accordance with the exercised over the year end.
information received by the Board during the year.
M anagement explained the conversion process and Whether the statements were written in straightforward accounting treatment to the Committee and it was noted language with the use of any adjusted measures that the Groups lawyers were advising on the transaction.
Management also advised the Committee that the Auditor concurred with the proposed accounting treatment.
Thiswas subsequently confirmed by the Auditor.
T he Committee was satisfied with the level of assurance gained from these additional procedures.
114 Governance Revenue recognition Completed the tendering process for the 2014 audit of theGroup.
R evenue recognition is a presumed significant risk under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and The tendering process was started in December 2013 the Committee had, in previous years, considered two withparticipating firms preparing and submitting proposals treatments where the level of risk might have been against a number of specific criteria.
The final phase of the elevated.
Having discussed both treatments with tendering process involved presentations to the Committee management and established that the treatments and and executive management in March 2014.
Following these assumptions were consistent with previous years, the presentations, a recommendation was made to the Board Committee decided that no additional procedures were based on the quality of the audit being offered, and required in the current year.
subsequently a resolution to appoint PwC asthe Groups Auditor was passed at the 2014 AGM.
Inaccordance with Management override of internal control thecurrent regulations, the Group willre-tender the audit I n the absence of an internal audit function, the after10 years.
Committee looks for external assurance on the operation Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
of certain controls in the business.
This is achieved by instructing thirdparties which may include the external Considered the need for an internal audit function and Auditor to review the control environment in a particular concluded that one was not needed given the scale and area.
The Committee remains satisfied with the level of complexity of the business, but that external assurance assurance gained from this process.
maybe sought in particular areas identified as higher risk.
Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit Noted that the accounts for the Groups pension schemes had been audited and no matters raised.
In assessing the effectiveness of the external audit the Committee took into account the views of both Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy and procedure management and the Auditor.
It also reviewed the audit plan and introduced improvements to ensure that it continued and considered the quality of the planning, the extent to tomeet best practice.
which it was tailored to the business and its ability to respond to any changes in the business.
Having considered these factors the Committee has recommended the STEPHEN G. YOUNG re-appointment of PwC to the Board.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures for 26 FEBRUARY 2015 safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the external Auditor.
In assessing this matter the Committee noted the following:- Each year the Auditor issues the Committee with an Independence Letter which confirms their independence and compliance with the Auditing Practices Board APB Ethical Standards.
This is provided after the Auditor has considered the following matters: A ny relationships of which they are aware that, in their professional judgement, may reasonably be thought to bear on their independence and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and staff: A ny services that the Auditor has provided to the Groupin addition to the audit of the consolidated financial statements: T he total amount of fees that the Auditor has charged the Group for the provision of services during the reporting period: and T he amounts of any future services that have been contracted for, or where a written proposal has beensubmitted.
The Company operates a policy under which the Auditor cannot be appointed for any non-audit work where the fee exceeds 25,000 without the appointment being approved by the Audit Committee.
There have been nosuch appointments since PwC were appointed in May 2014.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 115
