DIRECTORS REPORT The Board At the end of the year the Board consisted of: Seven non-executive Directors: Robert Rayne Chairman Stuart Corbyn Senior Independent Director Robert Farnes Stephen Young June fide Moller Simon Fraser Richard Dakin Six executive Directors: John Burns Chief Executive Officer Simon Silver Damian Wisniewski Nigel George Paul Williams David Silverman TIMOTHY KITE COMPANY SECRETARY The Directors present their annual report and auditedfinancial role on Richards independence as a non-executive Director.
statements for the year ended 31December 2014.
Having considered the lines of reporting and responsibilities in CBRE and after seeking additional assurancefrom them that, A review of the development of the Groups business during intheir view, his independence isnot compromised, the Board the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group has concluded that Richard remainsindependent both in and its future prospects is included in the Chairmans character and judgement.
statement and the strategic report earlier in this report.
It has been agreed that Richard will not take part in any As noted in the Chairmans letter on Corporate Governance considerations of the valuation of the Groups property portfolio above, Robert Farnes is not deemed independent under the at either Board or Committee level.
In addition, he will have no criteria given in provision B.
1.1. of the Code having served on involvement in any discussions or decisions regarding the the Board for more than nine years.
The Board has therefore appointment of CBRE or the fees paid to them.
The Groups Nominations Committee continues to monitor Along with a number of institutional investors the Board does thecomposition, independence and balance of the Board to not believe that length of service is necessarily a complete ensure that the non-executive Directors are able to effectively oraccurate guide to a Directors independence and therefore challenge the views of the executive Directors.
As part of this ithas reviewed the manner in which Robert carried out his process the Committee has appointed an independent dutiesduring the year.
In the Boards opinion, he has shown recruitment agency to assist with the process of recruiting commitment to his role and the effective manner in which he anon-executive Director to replace Robert Farnes.
applies his experience and exercises his judgement continues to demonstrate an independent state of mind.
An important element of assessing the composition of the Board involves considering its diversity, having particular regard Despite the Board having no reservations about his to the requirements concerning gender diversity included in the independence, in accordance with best practice Robert will 2012 revision of the Code.
The Boards overriding aim is for it not be standing for re-election at the Companys forthcoming to have the correct balance of skills, experience, length of Annual General Meeting AGM.
service and knowledge of the Group to deliver the Groups In addition, in November 2014, Richard Dakin was appointed strategy whilst recognising the importance of diversity and the Managing Director of Capital Advisors Limited, a wholly owned requests made by Lord Davies of Abersoch through the BIS.
subsidiary of CBRE Limited and became a member of their The Board does not intend to apply positive discrimination in UKManagement Board.
its appointments and would stress that these will continue to be made based purely on merit having given due regard to the CBRE is one of the worlds leading property services advisory benefits of diversity in its widest sense and the extent to which firms offering many different property services with its global the applicant can provide the set of skills identified atthe start headquarters in Los Angeles.
The Group uses their services as of the process.
Within this environment, the Nominations a valuer, investment adviser and agent.
In view of this continuing Committees aim is for an additional female Directorto be relationship, the Board has considered the impact ofhis new thenext appointment to theBoard.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 83 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Board currently includes one female 8% and the gender attended mix throughout the Group is illustrated in the diagrams on 0 not attended page75.
Remuneration Committee Taking all factors into account the Directors believe that the Membership and attendance Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, Simon Fraser Chairman knowledge and independence to deliver the Groups strategy 0 Stuart Corbyn and to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
0 0 June fide Moller The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic Stephen Young aims, for ensuring that adequate resources are available tomeet its objectives and for reviewing management The Committee is responsible for establishing the Groups performance.
A formal list of matters reserved for the Board is remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for maintained which includes decisions relating to strategy and the executive Directors and selected senior executives.
There management, structure and capital, internal control and were four meetings of the Committee in 2014 and the report corporate governance, major contracts, certain external ofits activities is set out on pages 93 to 110. communications and Board membership.
The list is reviewed Nominations Committee periodically.
The full Board met six times during the year and Membership and attendance six meetings are scheduled for 2015.
Extra meetings will bearranged if necessary.
The Executive Committee which Stuart Corbyn Chairman consists of the executive Directors plus four of the Groups June fide Moller senior managers met 11 times throughout the year.
Both Robert Farnes until Dec 2014 bodies are provided with comprehensive papers in a timely Simon Fraser manner to ensure that they are fully briefed on matters to Richard Dakin from July 2014 n a bediscussed at these meetings.
The Committees responsibilities include identifying external Directors attendance at Board and Executive Committee candidates for appointment as Directors and, subsequently, meetings during the year was as follows: recommending their appointment to the Board.
If requested, Executive the Committee will make a recommendation concerning Full Board Committee anappointment to the Board from within the Group.
The Number of meetings 6 11 Committee met four times during 2014 and the report of the Executive Nominations Committee is on page 111.
John Burns 6 11 Risk Committee Simon Silver 6 11 Membership and attendance Damian Wisniewski 6 11 Paul Williams 6 11 Richard Dakin Chairman from Nigel George 6 11 August2014 David Silverman 6 11 June fide Moller Chairman until Non-executive August2014 Robert Rayne 4 0 Stephen Young Stuart Corbyn 6 John Burns Richard Dakin 6 Damian Wisniewski June fide Moller 6 Robert Farnes 5 The Committees main responsibility is to review the Simon Fraser 6 effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
It met three times during the year Stephen Young 5 andthe Committees report is on page 112.
A formal schedule, which has been approved by the Board, Audit Committee sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Membership and attendance who is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day 0 Stephen Young Chairman operations of the business.
Stuart Corbyn The Board maintains a number of Board Committees.
The Richard Dakin terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Simon Fraser Groups website www.
Set out below The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and reporting aredetails of the membership and duties of the four principal tothe Board on, the Groups financial reporting and for committees that operated throughout 2014. maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups Auditor.
The Committee met four times during 2014 and thereport of the Audit Committee is on pages 114 and 115.
84 Governance Performance evaluation bytheBoard holds office only until the next AGM of the With regard to the requirement of provision B.
6.2 of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
The Board Codean independent third party was again used to facilitate orany Committee authorised by the Board may from time to the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment Committees.
This is the second time that an external review orexecutive office for such period and on such terms as has been carried out since the internal assessment carried theymay determine and may also revoke or terminate any outin 2012. suchappointment.
The review took the form of a confidential, online survey The articles provide that, at every AGM of the Company, whichwas completed by all the Directors and the Company anyDirector who has been appointed by the Board since the Secretary.
The survey covered the processes and lastAGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding performance of the Board, the Committees and the Chairman AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has with particular focus on risk management and Board heldoffice with the Company, other than employment or information.
The performance of individual Directors was executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or assessed by the Remuneration Committee as part of the moreat the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and salary review process.
mayoffer himself for re-appointment by the members.
However, in accordance with Provision B.
7.1 of the Code The facilitator prepared reports for each body which were theCompany subjects all Directors to annual re-election considered by the Chairman as well as the chairmen of the andtherefore at the next AGM all the Directors, other than relevant Committees.
As a result of the review, the structure Robert Farnes who is retiring at the end of the meeting, will and content of the Board packs prepared for each Board retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
meeting is to be reviewed to ensure that it is still an effective Biographies ofall the Directors are given on page 79. format to provide the Directors with the appropriate information.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director Last years review highlighted a requirement for the nonbefore the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a executive Directors to have a greater input into the strategy of Director shall be vacated if: the Group.
A separate session was arranged to facilitate this and the 2014 review shows that the issue has been he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolves to successfully addressed.
accept such offer: his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less As a result of this evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the thanthree in number: structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continues he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health tobe satisfactory and appropriate for the Group.
In addition, and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: the Chairman is satisfied that the non-executive Directors, he is absent without the permission of the Board from whom are standing for re-election at the AGM, continue meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director tobeeffective and show a high level of commitment to their appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and roles.
In forming this assessment, the Chairman paid particular the Board resolves that his office is vacated: attention to those Directors that had served on the Board for he becomes bankrupt or enters into an agreement with his more than six years.
creditors generally: The performance of the Chairman was assessed by the he is prohibited by a law from being a Director: non-executive Directors under the leadership of the Senior he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts: Independent Director using the responses to that section or ofthesurvey.
he is removed from office pursuant to the Companys Appointment and replacement of Directors articles.
Appointment of a Director from outside the Group is on the If considered appropriate, new Directors are provided with recommendation of the Nominations Committee, whilst internal external training that addresses their role and duties asaDirector promotion is a matter decided by the Board unless it is of a quoted public company.
Existing Directors monitor their own considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested continued professional development and areencouraged to from the Nominations Committee.
attend courses that keep their market andregulatory knowledge The Board shall consist of not less than two Directors and up to date.
In addition, any training and development requirements notmore than 15.
Shareholders may vary the minimum and are discussed during the one-to-one meetings between the ormaximum number of Directors by passing an ordinary Chairman and the Directors.
Other than as required by the shareholding All Directors have access to the services of the Company guideline monitored by the Remuneration Committee, Secretary and any Director may instigate an agreed procedure aDirector shall not be required to hold any shares in the whereby independent professional advice may be sought Company.
Directors may be appointed by the Company atthe Companys expense.
Directors and officers liability byordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed insurance is maintained by the Company.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 85 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Powers of the Directors Conflicts of interest Subject to the Companys articles, the Companies Act and The Companys articles permit the Directors to regulate anydirections given by the Company by special resolution, conflicts of interest.
The Board operates a policy for managing thebusiness of the Company will be managed by the Board and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether conflicts of interest whereby Directors are required to notify the relating to the management of the business of the Company Company as soon as they become aware of a situation that ornot.
Inparticular, the Board may exercise all the powers of could give rise to a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
The the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, register of potential conflicts of interest is regularly reviewed by tomortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, the Risk Committee and the Board is satisfied that this policy assets present and future and uncalled capital and to issue has operated effectively throughout the period.
debentures and other securities and to give security for any Communication with shareholders debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Company recognises the importance of clear Directors communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with The Directors of the Company during the year and their institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, interests in the share capital of the Company, including principally by the executive Directors, by giving presentations deferred shares and shares over which options have been and organising visits to the Groups property assets.
The Board granted under the performance share plan, are shown receives regular reports of these meetings which include a below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
summary of any significant issues raised by the shareholders.
The annual report, which is available to all shareholders, There have been no changes in any of the Directors interests reinforces this communication.
The Groups website between the year end and 26 February 2015. www.
com, which includes the presentations The Directors do not participate in the Executive Share Option made to analysts at the time of the Groups interim and full Scheme.
During the year, a conditional grant of 195,385 yearresults, together with the social media channels that shares was made to Directors under the Performance Share theGroup uses, provide additional sources of information for Plan PSP whilst 128,091 shares vested to the Directors shareholders.
Websites for specific developments are used froman earlier conditional award at a zero exercise price.
tohelp explain the Groups current activities to shareholders in Theremaining 102,959 shares of this award made to more detail.
The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders Directorslapsed.
to question the Directors and, in particular, the chairmen of each of the Board Committees.
An alternative channel of Other than as disclosed in note 37 the Directors have no communication to the Board is available through Stuart interest in any material contracts of the Company.
Corbyn, the Senior Independent Director.
86 Governance Risk management and internal control The Board was able to assess the effectiveness of the controls The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2015 through the close day-to-day involvement of the executive together with the controls and mitigating factors are set out on Directors in the operation of many of the controls and the pages 22 to 27.
Details of the price, credit, liquidity and cash various reports that the Board receives which enable any flow risks that are inherent in the Groups business are given in significant control failure to be identified.
The key elements of the The Board has considered the need for an internal audit Groups internal control framework which is designed to function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary manage and control the Groups risks are: giventhe size and complexity of the Group.
an approved schedule of matters reserved for decision by Report and accounts the Board and the Executive Committee supported by The Board has considered the Groups report and accounts defined responsibilities andlevels of authority: and, taking into account the recommendation of the Audit the day-to-day involvement of the executive Directors in Committee, is satisfied that, taken as a whole, it is fair, allaspects ofthe Groups business: balanced and understandable and provides the information a comprehensive system of financial reporting and necessary for the shareholders to assess the Companys forecasting including both sensitivity and variance analysis: performance, business model and strategy.
maintenance, updating and regular review by the Risk Share capital Committee of the Groups risk register: and As at 25 February 2014, the Companys issued share capital a formal whistleblowing policy.
comprised asingle class of 5p ordinary shares.
Details of the The effectiveness of this system and the operation of ordinary share capital and shares issued during the year can thekeycomponents thereof have been reviewed for the be found in note 27 to the financial statements.
accounting year and the period to the date of approval ofthefinancial statements.
Derwent London shares held by the Group At 31 December 2014 the Group held 38,223 Derwent London shares in order to deliver the deferred bonus shares to the Directors when the deferral periods expire.
Movements on the holding of these shares are detailed below: Percentage of Number of 5p issued share Aggregate ordinary capital Price consideration Transaction shares % Holding at 1 January 2013 42,895 0.042 700,063 Acquired on 27 March 2013 18,316 0.018 21.39 391,779 Maximum holding during 2013 61,211 0.060 1,091,842 Disposed on 4 April 2013 27,775 0.027 21.50 597,162 Holding at 31 December 2013 33,436 0.033 494,680 Disposal on 2 April 2014 24,275 0.024 27.34 663,678 Acquired on 7 April 2014 29,062 0.028 26.97 783,802 Maximum holding during 2014 and holding as at 31 December 2014 38,223 0.037 614,804 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 87 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Restrictions on voting The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot attached to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attend or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can or upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by bedecided either by an ordinary resolution passed by the membership in relation to general meetings or polls if he has shareholders or by the Directors as long as there is no conflict not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
These rights atthe time of the meeting, or if he has been served with a and restrictions will apply to the relevant shares as if they were restriction notice as defined in the articles after failure to set out in the articles.
Subject to the articles, the Companies provide the Company with information concerning interests Act and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the inthose shares required to be provided under the disposal of the Board.
Variation of rights The Company is not aware of any agreements between If the Companies Act allows this, the rights attached to any shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
class of shares can be changed if it is approved either in Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company writing by shareholders holding at least three-quarters of the There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the issued shares of that class by amount excluding any shares Company, except: ofthat class held as treasury shares or by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the relevant that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by class of shares.
This is called a class meeting.
laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct All the articles relating to general meetings will apply to any Authority whereby certain employees of the Company such class meeting, with any necessary changes.
The require the approval of the Company to deal in the following changes will also apply: Companys ordinary shares.
a quorum will be present if at least two shareholders who are The Company is not aware of any agreements between entitled to vote are present in person or by proxy who own at shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer least one-third in amount of the issued shares of the class ofsecurities.
excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares : any shareholder who is present in person or by proxy and Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying entitled to vote can demand a poll: and back its own shares The Directors were granted authority at the last AGM held at an adjourned meeting, one person entitled to vote and in2014 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount who holds shares of the class, or his proxy, will be a quorum.
That authority will apply until the conclusion The provisions of this article will apply to any change of rights ofthisyears AGM.
At this years AGM shareholders will be of shares forming part of a class.
Each part of the class which askedto grant an authority to allot relevant securities i up to a is being treated differently is treated as a separate class in nominal amount of 1,844,352 and ii up to a nominal amount applying this article.
of 3,688,705 after deducting from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, of a rights issue, the section 551 authority, such section 551 unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to authority to apply until the end of next years AGM.
those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in No person holds securities in the Company carrying special connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal rights with regard to control of the Company.
A further special resolution will be Voting proposed to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be whether on a show of hands or a poll, as provided in the limited to a maximum of 11,066,114 ordinary shares and the Companies Act.
Where a proxy is given discretion as to how resolution sets the minimum and maximum prices which tovote on a show of hands this will be treated as an instruction maybe paid.
by the relevant shareholder to vote in the way in which the proxy decides to exercise that discretion.
This is subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting which are given to any shares or upon which any shares may be held at the relevant time and to the articles.
If more than one joint holder votes including voting by proxy, the only vote which will count is the vote of the person whose name is listed first on the register for the share.
88 Governance Substantial shareholders Fixed assets In addition to those of the Directors disclosed on page 86, The Groups freehold and leasehold investment properties theCompany has been notified of the following interests in were professionally revalued at 31 December 2014, resulting theissued ordinary share capital as at 25 February 2015. ina surplus of 683.8m, before deducting the lease incentive adjustment of 11.9m.
The freehold and leasehold properties Percentage areincluded in the Group balance sheet at a carrying value Number of issued of shares share capital of4,089.8m.
Further details are given in note 16 of the financial statements.
Invesco Inc 5,242,406 4.74 Blackrock Investment Management UK Ltd 5,143,432 4.65 Post balance sheet events Standard Life Investments 4,284,390 3.87 Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 35 of the Lady Jane Rayne 3,593,838 3.25 financial statements.
Withers Trust Corporation Ltd 3,593,146 3.25 Going concern Significant agreements Under Provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, There are no agreements between the Company and its the Board needs to report whether the business is a going Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss concern.
In considering this requirement, the Directors have ofoffice or employment that occurs because of a takeover taken into account the following: bid, except that, under the rules of the Groups share-based The Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years in remuneration schemes some awards may vest following particular the cash flows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts.
Some of the Groups banking arrangements are terminable The headroom under the Groups financial covenants.
upon a change of control of the Company.
The risks included on the Groups Risk Register that could impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency over the next As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the Company if it 12months.
makes a distribution to another company which is beneficially The risks on the Groups Risk Register that could be a threat entitled to 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the to the Groups business model and capital adequacy.
Company or controls 10% or more of the voting rights in the company, a substantial shareholder, unless the Company The Groups risks and risk management processes are set out hastaken reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being on pages 22 to 27. made.
The Companys articles give the Directors power to take Having due regard to these matters and after making such steps, including the power: appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable to identify a substantial shareholder: expectation that the Group and Company have adequate to withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial resources to continue in operational existence for the shareholder: and foreseeable future.
Therefore, the Board continues to adopt to require the disposal of shares forming part of a thegoing concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors There is no person with whom the Group has a contractual The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this orother arrangement which is essential to the business of Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, theCompany.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the Amendment of articles of association steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles of themselves aware of any relevant audit information.
theCompany, the Companys articles may be amended by aspecial resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Auditors Having been appointed during the year,  LLP has expressed its willingness tocontinue in office and accordingly, resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at theAGM.
These are resolutions 16 and 17 set out in the noticeof meeting.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 89 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 2 Our carbon footprint We have seen reductions in our overall CO e m intensity of 2 We present below our annual GHG greenhouse gas 9.7% this excludes Scope 1 fugitive emissions.
emissions profile for 2014 compared to our 2013 baseline.
For further analysis and detail on our GHG emissions please Inaddition there are a set of intensity ratios appropriate for see our 2014 annual sustainability report, which can be found ourbusiness, both of which align with the requirements of at www.
theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Whole portfolio carbon generation 2014 2013 tCO e tCO e % change 2 2 Scope 1 Energy-use Gas total building 2,295 3,691 37.8 Oil total building 78 62 25.8 Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars for business travel 19 19 Fugitive Refrigerant emissions 774 1,000 22.6 emissions Scope 2 Energy-use Electricity use generation landlord-controlled areas and Derwent 5,527 6,978 20.8 London occupied floor area Scope 3 Energy-use Electricity use WTT Generated Scope 3 Indirect GHG 842 1,063 20.8 landlord-controlled areas and Derwent London occupied floor area Electricity use T&D Direct & WTT T&D Indirect landlord-controlled 557 703 20.8 areas and Derwent London occupied floor area Gas total building 308 496 37.9 Oil total building 16 12 25.0 Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars for business travel WTT 4 4 Business air travel WTT 5 3 66.7 Business air travel 41 24 70.8 Water Water use total building 46 44 4.5 Total All All 10,512 14,098 25.4 Out of scope Energy-use Biomass use total building 26 22 18.2 Intensity tCO e m turnover Scopes 1 and 2 only, excluding Scope 1 fugitive emissions 62.81 89.29 29.7 2 2 tCO e m Scopes 1 and 2 only, excluding Scope 1 fugitive emissions 0.028 0.031 9.7 2 Data notes Reporting period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 Baseline year 2013 restated Boundary consolidation approach Operational control Alignment with financial reporting The only variation is that the GHG emission data presented does not account for single-let properties or properties for which we do not have management control, and therefore cannot be responsible for.
This is because we have no control or influence over the utility consumption in these buildings.
However, the rental income of these properties is included in our consolidated financial statements.
Reporting method The Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Emissions factor source Defra, May 2014 www.
co. uk Independent assurance Public limited assurance provided by Deloitte LLP over all Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions data.
Data changes and restatements We have restated our 2013 baseline emissions figures in response to changes made by Defra to the suiteofUKconversion factors.
90 Governance Annual General Meeting The authority will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM The notice of meeting contained in the circular to shareholders or, if earlier, the close of business on 15 August 2016. that accompanies the report and accounts includes four Resolution 20 is a special resolution to renewthe authority resolutions to be considered as special business.
enabling the Company to purchase its ownshares.
This Resolution 18 is an ordinary resolution to renew the authority of authority enables the Directors to act quickly, if, having taken the Directors under Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to account of all major factors such as the effect onearnings allot shares.
Paragraph A of the resolution gives the Directors andnet asset value per share, gearing levels andalternative authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal investment opportunities, such purchases areconsidered to amount of 1,844,352 which represents about one-third of the be in the Companys and shareholders bestinterest while issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the maintaining an efficient capital structure.
Thespecial resolution Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the gives the Directors authority topurchase upto 10% of the publication of this document.
Companys ordinary shares and specifies themaximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The authority In line with guidance issued by the Investment Association, will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if earlier, the paragraph B of the resolution gives the Directors authority to close ofbusiness on 15 August 2016. allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount of The Companies Act 2006 permits the Company to hold any 3,688,705, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares such repurchased shares in treasury, with a view to possible issued under paragraph A of the resolution.
This amount re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to immediately before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Company purchases any of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares its shares pursuant to resolution 20, the Company may cancel ofthe Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such a decision will be publication of this document.
made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
Asatthe The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares dateof the notice of meeting, the Company held noshares except on the exercise of options under the Companys share intreasury.
option scheme, on the vesting of shares under the Companys performance share plan or in connection with the scrip The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares dividend scheme.
The authority will expire at the conclusion outstanding at 26 February 2015 was 953,460 which ofnext years AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on represented 0.86% of the issued share capital excluding 15August 2016. treasury shares at that date.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this Resolution 19 is a special resolution to renew the Directors resolution, the options outstanding at 26 February 2015 authority under Sections 571 and 573 of the Companies Act wouldrepresent 1.07% of the issued share capital excluding 2006.
The resolution empowers the Directors to allot shares or treasury shares.
sell treasury shares forcash in connection with pre-emptive offers and the scrip dividend scheme where the scrip election Resolution 21 is required to reflect the implementation of the is made after thedeclaration but before payment of a final Shareholder Rights Directive which, in the absence of a special dividend with modifications to the requirements set out in resolution to the contrary, increased the notice period for Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution further general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company empowers the Directors to allot or, in the case of treasury iscurrently able to call general meetings other than an AGM shares, sell shares for cash, otherwise than on a pre-emptive on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
basis, up to an aggregate nominal value of 553,306 which is The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued share capital as routine, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this of the meeting and it is thought to be to the advantage of the document provided that, unless the proceeds of such shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until allotment or sale are to be applied in connection with an theCompanys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar acquisition or specified capital investment, this authority is resolution will be proposed.
limited to 5% of the issued share capital.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding TIMOTHY J. KITE ACA cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year COMPANY SECRETARY period, which provide that usage in excess of 7.5% 26 FEBRUARY 2015 excludingin connection with an acquisition or specified capitalinvestment should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph B ofresolution 18 would be limited to allotments by way of arights issue subject to the right of the Board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 91
