ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 101 Corporate Governance Report of the Nomination Committee COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the internally managed Board evaluation The Board has established a Nomination Committee exercise undertaken in relation to the year ended 31 the Committee, the majority of members of which December 2014 and the Committee was found to be are independent Non-Executive Directors as required operating effectively.
by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee comprises James Hambro Chairman, ACTIVITIES DURING 2014 Humphrey Price, Richard Cotton, Richard Mully and any one of the Joint Chief Executives, Ian Watson The Committees focus in 2014 was on the and Morgan Jones, at any one time.
The Company development of the Boards succession plan, Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
in particular the appointment of two additional Non-Executive Directors to join the Board.
These The Committee is required, in accordance with its appointments ll the vacancy created by Stephen terms of reference, to meet at least once a year.
Gees retirement in 2014 and the forthcoming During 2014 the Committee met twice to recommend vacancy which will arise when Richard Mully retires the appointment of Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca from the Board at the Annual General Meeting Worthington to the Board and to approve the Terms of in 2015.
The Committee engaged the services of Reference for the coming year.
an external executive search consultancy with no The full terms of reference of the Nomination prior relationship with the Company, to assist in Committee, reviewed in 2014, are available on the recruitment process.
From an initial list of 31 the Companys website www.
candidates put forward and meeting criteria agreed The terms and conditions of the Non-Executive by the Committee, a short list of four was drawn up Directors appointments are available for inspection based on their level of relevant experience.
The four at the Companys Annual General Meeting or at the candidates on the shortlist were invited to meet me Companys registered of ce.
and other members of the Board and as a result of those discussions we welcomed Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington to the Board on 10 June ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE 2014.
Both Melvyn and Rebecca strengthen the The role of the Committee is to keep under review Hansteen board with their breadth of knowledge, the composition of the Board, to plan for its skills and experience and I look forward to working refreshment, with regard to balance and structure, with them both to deliver Hansteens strategy.
and to consider issues of succession.
As a result of the recommendations of the The Committee is responsible for a number of Nomination Committee both Melvyn Egglenton and matters relating to the composition of the Board and Rebecca Worthington were appointed to the Audit its committees.
In particular it is responsible for: Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
reviewing the structure, size and composition of In addition the Board accepted the Committees the Board and making recommendations to the recommendation to appoint Melvyn Egglenton Board with regard to any changes required: as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in succession planning for Directors: succession to Richard Cotton as Chairman of that Committee.
identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise: reviewing annually the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors: and making recommendations to the Board regarding James Hambro membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in consultation with the Chairman of Chairman each Committee.
