Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 GReGoRy ALLIson CLARke MIChAeL John WAtteRs AndReW RoWeLL Chief Financial Officer Independent Nonexecutive Chairman CEO Age: 57 Age: 55 Age: 37 Appointed: October 2011 Appointed: August 2011 appointed an Appointed: December 2013 Executive Director December 2013 Committees: Andrew Rowell is a Chartered Accountant Nominations Committee Chairman with a BComm Hons Degree.
He spent Michael Watters is a qualified engineer four years with  with a BSc Eng Civil Degree and an Greg Clarke has over 30 years experience in South Africa and in the USA.
He has over 27 years experience of working for and running large was group accountant at Mvelaphanda in the investment banking and real estate international public corporations across Group Limited, a listed investment industries.
He has held directorships of Europe, Australia and South Africa.
company in South Africa, prior to joining some of South Africas top rated listed Between 2002 and 2009 he was chief Redefine International.
He previously held property funds including Sycom Property executive of Lend Lease Corporation, the role of finance director for RIMH, the Fund and Hyprop Investments Limited an ASX 50 international corporation former Investment Adviser to Redefine as well as the Sapphire Retail Fund in specialising in property investment, International, prior to the management the UK and Cromwell in Australia.
is CEO of Redefine International and 1994 and 2000 he worked for groups a Nonexecutive Director of Redefine owned by Cable and Wireless, ultimately AdRIAn AndReW hoRsbuRGh Properties Limited.
being promoted to CEO of Cable and Property Director Wireless Communications Plc.
He is stePhen JAMes oAkenfuLL Age: 52 currently chairman of The Football Deputy CEO Appointed: March 2014 League, a role he has held since 2010, Age: 35 and was appointed chairman of the Adrian joined Redefine International Appointed: December 2013 Meteorological Office and chairman of following a 30 year career with Jones EGHL Limited in 2012.
Stephen Oakenfull is a CFA charterholder Lang LaSalle formerly King Sturge with a BSc Hons Degree in Construction JLL, where he most recently held Management.
He has previously held the role of retail investment director.
the role of chief operating officer of Adrian first joined King Sturge formerly RIMH, the former Investment Adviser to King & Co as a trainee surveyor in the Redefine International.
Prior to joining Investment Department following attaining the Redefine Group, Stephen worked for a Diploma in Accountancy at City of DTZ Corporate Finance in London and London Polytechnic.
He qualified as a as a management consultant for Turner & Chartered Surveyor while at the firm and Townsend, an international construction was appointed an equity partner in 1992. and management consultancy, both in On the merger of King Sturge with JLL in South Africa and London.
2011 he was appointed an international director of the merged company.
Adrian has worked exclusively in the investment sector with a specialisation in retail and shopping centres.
Redefine International P. L. C. 40 Annual Report 2014 Governance 7 8 9 1: Gregory Allison Clarke 2: Michael John Watters 3: Andrew Rowell 4: Stephen James Oakenfull 5: Adrian Andrew Horsburgh 6: Michael James Wills Farrow 7: Gavin Robert Tipper 8: Richard Marcus Melhuish 9: Susan Elizabeth Ford 10: Marc Wainer 10 11 11: Bernard Nackan MIChAeL JAMes WILLs fARRoW RIChARd MARCus MeLhuIsh MARC WAIneR Independent Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director Independent Nonexecutive Director Senior Independent Director Age: 67 Age: 66 Age: 60 Appointed: November 2007 Appointed: October 2011 Appointed: October 2011 Committees: Nominations and Marc Wainer has over 40 years Remuneration Committees Committees: Remuneration Chairman experience in all aspects of the and Audit and Risk Committees propertyindustry.
Richard Melhuish is a fully qualified Chartered Surveyor with over 30 years Michael Farrow is a founder director of He is the founder and executive experience in property investment and Consortia Partnership Limited, a Jersey chairmanof Redefine Properties Limited, asset management.
He was previously licensed trust company: this followed a nonexecutive director of Cromwell managing director and cofounder of seven years as an executive director Property Group and has served on Chancerygate Asset Management Limited.
and trustee of a very substantial family numerous other listed property boards, Since 2006 he has been a director of trust whose main activity was property including Hyprop Investments Limited Chancerygate IOM Limited where he is investment and development in the UK, andFountainhead Property Trust.
responsible for strategy management, central Europe and California.
He currently portfolio performance and acquiring and beRnARd nACkAn sits on the boards of both UK listed and selling property.
Prior to this, Richard private property companies and funds.
Nonexecutive Director worked from 1978 at Liverpool Victoria From 19931997 he was group company Age: 70 Friendly Society Limited where, as head secretary of Cater Allen, Jersey and, prior Appointed: April 2014 of property from 1993, he was responsible to that a regular army officer.
He holds Bernard Nackan was financial editor for the property element of both the Life an MSc in Corporate Governance and of the Rand Daily Mail, from 1969 to Fund and the Staff Pension Fund.
These is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 1974.
He was an executive director two funds directly owned property assets Secretaries and Administrators.
of Sage Group and its investment, valued around 500m.
He was elected a GAvIn RobeRt tIPPeR life and property subsidiaries until his Fellow of the RICS in 1989. retirement in 2003.
He was a member Independent Nonexecutive Director susAn eLIzAbeth foRd of the Collective Investment Schemes Age: 49 Independent Nonexecutive Director Advisory Committee for over ten years.
Appointed: October 2011 Age: 54 He is currently a nonexecutive director Committees: Audit and Risk Chairman of three companies listed on the JSE: Appointed: December 2013 andNominations Committees lead nonexecutive director of Redefine Committees: Audit and Risk, Nominations Gavin Tipper is a Chartered Accountant Properties Limited: Fountainhead Property and Remuneration Committees with BComm and BAcc Degrees Trust Managers Limited and Rezco Asset Sue is a Chartered Accountant with over and a Masters Degree in Business ManagementGroup.
He has been involved in various leading organisations overseeing the financial services industry for over finance, strategy and governance 20 years.
Prior to joining the Coronation matters.
Sue was a founder and former Group in 2001, where he spent ten years finance director for Metric Property as chief operating officer, he was a Investmentplc, prior to its merger technical partner at KPMG.
Gavin holds with London & Stamford PLC to form directorships in a number of listed South LondonMetric Property plc, an income African companies.
Redefine International P. L. C. 41 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Redefine International is a UK real estate investment trust REIT with a premium listing on the Main Market of the LSE and a secondary listing on the Real Estate Real Estate Holding and Development sector of the Main Board of the JSE.
The Company was incorporated in the Isle of Man with registered number 111198C in 2004 and was reregistered under the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 in December 2013, with registered number 010534V.
Further to the secondary listing of the Company in South Africa on 28 October 2013, the JSE accepted that Redefine International will primarily comply with the Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 as opposed to the provisions of the third King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009.
The Company has substantially complied with the Code requirements for the reporting period ended 31 August 2014 and up to the date of this document.
The only areas of noncompliance are as follows: a Code b.
Half of the Board should comprise independent Nonexecutive Directors.
A small company should have at least two independent Nonexecutive Directors.
explanation: Redefine International was classed as a small company, and thus complied with the Code, until its inclusion in the FTSE 250 in May 2014.
The composition of the Board is currently being addressed by the Nominations Committee and a recruitment agency has been appointed in order to assist with the search for two new Directors: and b Code b.
2.3: Nonexecutive Directors should be appointed for a specified term.
explanation: Directors are appointed for a term which expires when either the Director i is not reappointed following retirement: ii is removed or vacates office: iii resigns or does not offer himself for reelection: or iv terminates his appointment on three months notice.
It should be noted that any Nonexecutive Director who has served more than sixyears is subject to a rigorous review when being considered for reelection.
The Board of Directors and its committees Composition of the Board The biographies of each of the Directors can be found on pages 40 and 41.
The Board currently comprises: The independent Nonexecutive Chairman Greg Clarke Four independent Nonexecutive Directors, who meet the Michael Farrow Senior Independent Director Code independence requirements Gavin Tipper Richard Melhuish Sue Ford Two Nonexecutive Directors who represent Marc Wainer Redefine Properties Ltd, the Companys major shareholder Bernard Nackan Four Executive Directors Michael Watters CEO Stephen Oakenfull Deputy CEO Andrew Rowell Chief Finance Officer Adrian Horsburgh Property Director The constitution provides an appropriate balance of power and authority, such that no one individual or block of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
The Board strives to be effective by maintaining strong leadership and by providing transparency and accountability to shareholders for the management and control of the Companys activities.
Greg Clarke has served as Chairman of the Board since 1 December 2011.
Michael Farrow was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on 30 January 2014, following the retirement of ItaMcArdle, and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have been unable to resolve through the Chairman, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
There are six Nonexecutive Directors, of which four meet the Code independence provisions.
They bring an independent judgement on issues of Company strategy, performance and standards of conduct and constructively challenge the executives and ensure that the obligations towards the Companys shareholders are met.
Should there be any unresolved issues raised by the Nonexecutive Directors, these are recorded in the minutes.
On the appointment of Michael Watters, as CEO, the division of responsibilities of the Chairman and CEO was documented and approved by the Board.
Stephen Oakenfull was appointed deputy CEO thus ensuring a line of succession for futureyears.
Together the Board Directors provide a diverse range of skills and a wealth of business experience in property, finance and corporate governance which, it is considered, will support the successful operation of the Company in the long term.
Redefine International P. L. C. 42 Annual Report 2014 Governance Operations of the Board The Board operates under a formal quarterly schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
This ensures that the Companys strategy and objectives, risks, internal controls and service providers are all reviewed throughout the year.
Quarter 1 Strategy, objectives and evaluation of the Board Quarter 2 Interim results and associated items Quarter 3 Review of policies, Terms of Reference and service providers Quarter 4 Year end results and associated items Before each meeting the Directors are asked to confirm their directorships and shareholdings to ensure that any potential conflict of interest is disclosed.
The Articles of Association permit a Director who has disclosed an interest in a transaction to vote and count in the quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board concerning the related transaction, if the Board soapproves.
Prior to each meeting, in addition to the above items, the Directors receive uptodate financial and commercial information in respect of the activities, in particular, quarterly management accounts and schedules of income and outgoings eachwith comparisons against budget, schedules of acquisitions and disposals and relevant appraisals prior Board approval being required for large transactions and cash flow forecasts, details of funding availability and matters relating .
Proposals regarding all significant or strategic decisions, including major acquisitions, disposals and financing transactions, are first reviewed by the Board, progressed through the Boards Investment Committee, and then presented to the Board for final authorisation, which requires approval from the majority of its members.
The Company Secretary advises on updates of regulatory rules and corporate governance matters and any concerns or developments regarding health and safety, bribery and whistleblowing, the policies of which are reviewed annually, or asnecessary.
Guest speakers are often invited to present on a specialist subject of topical interest to the Company and the Directors.
Between the scheduled Board meetings the executives produce regular financial and operational reports and hold update meetings, which keep Directors abreast of current issues, prevent the Directors from being overloaded with information each quarter and provides further time for debate.
An annual strategy session provides the Directors with additional time for discussion and ensures that the process for developing strategy is visible and transparent.
Ad hoc informal meetings are held by the Chairman with the Nonexecutive Directors to discuss the performance of theexecutives.
Should a Director require independent professional advice on any matters, the Board has agreed that this can be taken at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance cover and provides the Directors with indemnity.
Anycircumstances that might give rise to a claim are discussed at each Board meeting and reported to the brokers, andthelevel of indemnity is reviewed before renewal.
Committees of the Board Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration committees have been established in accordance with the Code and the activities of these committees have been documented on pages 46 to 52.
In order to further assist the Board with its operation, the following additional committees have been appointed: Investment Committee: comprising Marc Wainer, Michael Farrow and Richard Melhuish.
The committee operates within terms of reference, which can be found on the Companys website, and reviews investment propositions before recommending them to the Board.
environmental social and Governance Committee: Further details are given on page 34.
A Committee of the Board, comprising one independent nonexecutive and two other Directors, deals with any adhoc matters that arise between Board meetings, subject to certain limits set out in the Committees terms of reference.
Anymatters to be discussed which exceed the limits are put before a full Board.
Redefine International P. L. C. 43 Annual Report 2014
