Governance Key initiatives during the year During the year, the work undertaken by the Committee included the following: review of the interim and annual financial statements.
Approval of the accounting policies used, assessment of the reasonableness of judgements and estimates and consideration of compliance with statutory and listing obligations and accounting standards: review of the processes undertaken to ensure the Board is able to confirm that the financial results reflect a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects: consideration of the going concern assumption adopted by the Board: meeting with the external auditor at audit planning and reporting stages to consider and discuss the audit plan, results of the audit work as well as key accounting treatments and significant reporting judgements made: assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditor and its appointment: monitoring of the level of nonaudit services provided by the external auditor: meeting with selected independent property valuers to discuss the valuation process and assumptions used in the valuations: review of the results and the effectiveness of the internal auditor: review of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
Detailed internal control manuals as well as a Group risk matrix were prepared by management and reviewed by the internal auditor.
The risk matrix identifies key risks and managements actions and controls to manage the risks: and review of the whistleblowing policy by which staff may raise concerns in confidence regarding any financial or other matters.
No whistleblowing reports were raised during the year.
Significant areas of judgement and estimates The Committee, in monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, has assessed whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The Committee has identified the following key matters material to the Groups results by their level of complexity or estimation involved: Investment property valuation As the investment property balances and related valuations are a significant part of the Groups balance sheet and performance, they are a key area of focus.
Property valuations require significant judgements and estimates and hence valuations are prepared externally by independent property valuers.
The Committee meets with selected valuers, to gain a thorough understanding of the valuation process and to assess and challenge the key assumptions underlying the valuations.
The Committee was also provided with an overview of the market and the consequent increase in valuations over the period.
The conclusions of the Committee were that: the assets were valued on a basis consistent with prior periods: the assets were valued using reasonable estimates and professional judgements: and the assets were valued on a basis consistent with market norms.
Accounting for complex transactions A number of significant transactions occurred in the financial year, including the internalisation of management, theacquisition and disposal of a number of properties and property subsidiaries, as well as significant debt restructurings, and the Committee reviewed the accounting treatment for each of these transactions.
All of the transactions were assessed for compliance with IFRS and the Groups accounting policies.
It was concluded that the transactions referred to had been appropriately treated and disclosed in the Groups financial statements.
REIT conversion The Company converted to a REIT on 4 December 2013.
The Committee reviewed the advice obtained preconversion and considered the ongoing compliance with REIT requirements.
Redefine International P. L. C. 47 Annual Report 2014 Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued Independence and appointment of the external auditor KPMG was appointed, via a tender process in 2010, and the firm has expressed its willingness to continue in office.
Tomaintain auditor independence the Committee monitors the level of audit to nonaudit services and assesses the objectivity of the external auditor in conjunction with the senior management team.
KPMG has confirmed to the Committee that it remains independent and has maintained the necessary internal safeguards to ensure the objectivity of the audit partner and the audit staff.
The Companys policy on nonaudit services is included in the Committees terms of reference and can be accessed on the Companys website.
The level of nonaudit services and fees incurred during the year was compliant with the terms of reference.
The assurance services provided by KPMG were specifically related to the Companys listing on the JSE and the internalisation of management.
The following fees were paid to KPMG during the year, and are included in net operating income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 2014 2013 000 000 Audit fees 267 246 Disbursements 25 21 total 293 267 Nonaudit fees Taxation 18 105 Assurance services 185 250 total 203 355 Effectiveness of the external auditor In assessing KPMGs effectiveness and level of service, the Committee considered the auditors knowledge of the Company, the depth of understanding of the key accounting and audit judgements, the extent to which the audit plan was met and the content of the auditors reports to the Committee.
KPMGs reappointment has been recommended to the Board by the Audit and Risk Committee and a resolution to reappoint the firm will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal audit The Board recognises its ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and has accordingly appointed an independent internal auditor.
It has established procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing risks to which the Group is exposed and has identified risk management controls in the key areas of strategic, financial, operational and legal as areas for extended review.
It has, however, to be understood that systems of internal control, no matter how carefully designed, operated and supervised, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, the internal auditor assessed certain of the Companys internal control systems as well as the systems of one of the managing agents used by the Company.
Gavin tipper Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Redefine International P. L. C. 48 Annual Report 2014
