66 Governance GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOOD GOVERNANCE IS ESSENTIAL TO SUPPORT THE DELIVERY OF OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The Board, as custodian of the business, seeks to secure the long-term future of the Company.
We are responsible to our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders for the performance of the Company and for promoting its long-term success.
The Board continues to support the strategy agreed with our Chief Executive, David Sleath, and his executive team to improve shareholder returns through disciplined capital allocation and operational excellence.
In this Report we explain how corporate governance works the gender balance of corporate boards but it considers at SEGRO, how it is central to all aspects of our business that the quotas are not the preferred option by which to and is designed to create an environment where matters do so.
Further details about our diversity policy are set out can be considered and decisions made at the appropriate on page 77. level in the organisation.
In 2014, we engaged Lintstock Ltd to undertake our Throughout 2014, the Company complied with the UK external evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
As in Corporate Governance Code the Code and this Report previous years, this process is a valuable tool in providing sets out how we applied its principles to the running of some independent testing of the Boards effectiveness and the business.
The Board has considered the Financial an opportunity for all the Directors to reflect on how the Reporting Councils FRC recent revisions to the Code.
Further information about the process and Although these revisions do not yet apply to us, we are the conclusions are set out on page 70. mindful of the FRCs encouragement to consider early Following the recent amendment to the Disclosure and adoption.
We have set out on page 80 our compliance Transparency Rules there is no longer a requirement with the new provisions relating to risk and Baroness to issue Interim Management Statements.
The Board Ford, in her introductory letter to the Remuneration believes that shareholders find these updates helpful and Report, talks about the new requirement for clawback or accordingly it is our current intention to continue issuing malus clauses.
In the Finance Report, the going concern trading updates shortly after the end of the first and third statement confirms that the Board has considered material quarter periods.
uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to operate for at least the next 12 months.
During the coming year, the Board will consider how best to address the new requirement to assess the prospects of the Company over a longer time period.
NIGEL RICH CBE Chairman Board composition is critical in ensuring effective and value-adding corporate governance.
During 2014, the Nomination Committee led a search process to recruit an independent Non-Executive Director.
We were delighted that Martin Moore joined us in July.
Further details about this appointment process are set out on page 76.
The Board has continued to follow the debate around the Davies Report on Women on Boards and agrees with the conclusion that greater effort should be made to improve SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 During the year, Thom Wernink, independent LEADERSHIP Non-Executive Director, retired and was succeeded by Martin Moore.
Taking into account the provisions of the Responsibilities of the Board Code, each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered The Board is responsible for creating and delivering independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman sustainable shareholder value.
The Directors act in a way was considered independent on appointment and the they consider will promote the long-term success of the Board still considers him to be so.
Further information is Company for the benefit of shareholders, with regard to provided in the Nomination Committee Report on pages the interests of the Groups employees, and the impact of 76 and 77. the business on the community, the environment and the interests of other stakeholders.
Roles and responsibilities of the Directors The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Board membership Group.
The table below explains the responsibility of each Details of the Directors, including the skills and experience of the Board members.
The division of responsibilities of they each bring to the Board, are on pages 64 and the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent 65.
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, Director are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
four Executive Directors and five independent NonExecutive Directors, all of whom are equally responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership of the Group.
ROLE RESPONSIBILITIES Chairman Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
Sets the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision making.
Ensures that the corporate governance of the Group is maintained in line with current best practice.
Takes the necessary steps to ensure that all Directors receive the accurate, clear and timely information which they require to enable them to make sound decisions, to monitor the business effectively and to fulfil their duty to promote the success of the Company.
Ensures effective communication with shareholders and stakeholders and makes sure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major investors.
Chief Executive Officer Manages the business of the Group.
Recommends the Groups strategy to the Board and is responsible for the implementation of that strategy.
Executive Directors Manage the business operations within each Directors area of responsibility in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Non-Executive Directors Bring independent judgement and scrutiny to the decisions taken by the Board.
Monitor the success of management in delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board.
Senior Independent Director Acts as a sounding board to the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
Available to shareholders should the occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Company Secretary Responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Ensures timely and appropriate information flows within the Board, the Board Committees and between the Directors and senior management.
Ensures compliance with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements.
Gives guidance and advice within the Company on matters of business ethics and good governance.
Is available to give detailed practical support and guidance to Directors both individually and collectively.
68 Governance GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED time, Directors cannot attend a meeting because of prior Attendance business commitments or for personal reasons.
In such All Directors are expected to attend Board and Committee instances they are still provided with the papers in advance meetings of which they are a member.
During 2014, there of the meeting and are given an opportunity to discuss were seven scheduled Board meetings.
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during 2014 is set out in the table below.
From time to TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NIGEL N A N A 7 of 7 3of 3 RICH CHRISTOPHER 7 of 7 4of 4 3of 3 5of 5 FISHER MARGARET 7 of 7 4of 4 3of 3 5of 5 FORD ANDY N A N A N A 7 of 7 GULLIFORD MARTIN N A 3of 3 1of 2 1of 3 1 MOORE JUSTIN N A N A N A 7 of 7 READ PHIL N A N A N A 7 of 7 REDDING MARK N A 7 of 7 3of 3 5of 5 ROBERTSHAW DAVID N A N A 7 of 7 3of 3 SLEATH DOUG N A N A 7 of 7 4of 4 WEBB THOM N A N A 3of 3 1of 1 2 WERNINK 1 Appointed to the Board 1 July 2014.
2 Retired from the Board 30 April 2014.
Nigel Rich and David Sleath attend some of the Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
Justin Read attends the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 consideration of the health and safety strategy and THE WORK OF THE BOARD significant matters that have arisen during the year seeCSR report : Role of the Board the appointment of a Non-Executive Director The principal role of the Board is to ensure that the seeNomination Committee Report : Groups strategy creates and sustains long-term value for its investors.
Details of how the Company generates approval of dividend policy: and preserves value are set out in the Strategic Report an annual review of Treasury Policies see Financial on pages 1 to 61.
The Board retains responsibility for the Review : and approval of certain matters which include: Group strategy: the annual budget: the dividend policy: major investments an update on corporate regulatory changes and and disposals: and financial structure.
There is an approved reporting requirements.
Schedule of Matters Reserved for Decision by the Board, Matters specific to 2014: which was updated during the year.
approval of data centre strategy see Strategic Report : The day-to-day running of the Group is delegated by the Board to the Chief Executive who is supported by the approval of land strategy see Strategic Report : Executive Committee.
approval of a 472 million investment for SELP seeStrategic Report : Key activities of the Board during2014 During the year, in addition to its routine business, matters acquisition of 50 per cent interest in the Logistics considered by the Board included: Property Partnership joint venture see Strategic Report.
Regular business: approval of a number of non-core disposals, including annual strategy review see Strategic Report the sale to Ares Management LP of Pegasus Park in seecasestudy on page 74 : Belgium for 83.4 million: a number of industrial properties in Germany to Hansteen Holdings PLC: and noting of the Medium-Term Financial Plan and setting two UK portfolios see Strategic Report : of medium-term objectives: approval of new and amended bank facilities totalling a review of medium-term funding strategy 460 million see Finance Report : seeFinancial Review : review of independent valuation reports review and agree the approach for Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands following the appointment of a seeStrategicReport : new Business Unit Director: and rolling reviews of the performance of investments and review and approval of the plans for the growth of developments over the previous three years: the light industrial and urban distribution portfolio in consideration of the outlook for the property market, Continental Europe.
both occupier and investment, and the economic climate see Strategic Report : review of risks identified and resulting action plans, consideration of risk as it relates to strategy and risk appetite see Principal Risks : a review of the Schedule of Matters Reserved for Decision by the Board: consideration of the Groups approach to community engagement and charitable giving see CSR report : a review of the results of the Group-wide customer employee satisfaction surveys see CSR report : a review of the Groups sustainability strategy and progress with targets see CSR report : 70 Governance GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Committee structure Re-election of Directors The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities In accordance with the Code, each of the Directors to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, will submit themselves for election or re-election at the details of which are set out below.
The Nomination Committee Report on pages of these Committees can be found at www.
76 and 77 provides more information about the Directors The Company ensures that these Committees are appraisal process, while their skills and expertise are set out provided with sufficient resources to undertake in the Directors biographies on pages 64 and 65. their duties.
Risk Responsibility for all operational matters, including the The Board recognises that effective risk management implementation of Group strategy, is delegated to the is central to the achievement of the Groups strategic Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee supports the objectives and the long-term sustainable growth of Chief Executive in the delivery of strategy, establishing the business.
The Board has overall accountability for financial and operating targets and monitoring ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Group, performance against those targets.
At each meeting the and the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of Committee reviews financial and operational performance, the risk management process on behalf of the Board.
considers any health and safety incidents, carries out a Further details about the risk management process and pre-approval review of items requiring Board approval the Groups Principal Risks are set out on pages 40 to 43. and acts as a primary approval channel for matters below Board-approval level.
The Executive Committee has its As mentioned in the Chairmans introduction, in 2015 the own Terms of Reference and meets monthly.
Company will be required to comply with the recently updated Code.
The Board has considered the new The Executive Committee delegates some of its provisions in respect of risk management and concluded responsibilities to a further four Committees: that it already complies with the new provisions, including the Investment Committee: the requirement to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and its systems of the Operations Committee: risk management and internal control.
Details of those the Risk Management Committee: and risks and how they are being managed or mitigated are set out in the Principal Risks section on pages the Finance Committee.
During 2015, the Company will comply with These Committees have their own Terms of Reference the new provision to monitor the risk management and membership includes at least one member of and internal control systems and to review their the Executive Committee.
For further details see effectiveness by conducting an internal audit of the risk page opposite.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE BOARD Nigel Rich Chairman Four Executive Directors Five Independent Non-Executive Directors BOARD COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Monitors the integrity of the Ensures that the Board and Determines the reward strategy Groups financial statements, the senior management for the Executive Directors to reviews the relationship with team have the appropriate align their interests with those the auditor and the role and skills, knowledge and of shareholders.
effectiveness of the internal experience to operate audit function.
effectively and to deliver thestrategy.
Oversees the risk management process andcontrol environment.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE INVESTMENT OPERATIONS RISK FINANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Purpose: To assist Purpose: To manage the Purpose: To assist Purpose: To establish, Purpose: To monitor the Chief Executive allocation of capital across the Chief Operating monitor and report to compliance with the with the development the Group and to oversee Officer to manage the the Board and Audit Groups Treasury Policies and implementation all major investment and operations of the Group Committee on the and the Groups solvency, of Group strategy, divestment decisions on and to discharge the Groups approach to risk funding and hedging the management behalf of the Executive responsibilities delegated management.
to him by the Executive and the discharge Committee.
of responsibilities delegated by the Board.
72 Governance GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Evaluation ACCOUNTABILITY The Board has a policy of undertaking externally facilitated evaluations every three years and internal reviews in the Conflicts intervening two years.
External evaluations took place in Directors are required to submit any potential or actual 2008, 2011 and 2014.
The Board appointed Lintstock to conflicts of interest they may have with the Company to facilitate the latest external review.
Detailed questionnaires the Board for approval.
were prepared with input from the Chairman and the Company Secretary, on the performance of the Board, Induction and training each of the Board Committees and the Non-Executive Newly appointed Directors participate in a structured Directors.
A further questionnaire was also completed and tailored induction programme and on appointment about the annual strategy day.
The questions covered a receive a comprehensive pack of information on the range of matters including the composition, expertise, Group and its governance structure.
dynamic of the Board, time management, support, risk management and internal control.
There were also When Martin Moore joined the Board in July an questions about succession planning, human resource induction programme was prepared for him with the management and priorities for change.
intention of giving him a rounded view of the Groups The performance of the Board was highly rated and there activities and governance.
The programme, which was spread over five months, gave him an opportunity to was consensus that it was operating effectively, with an appropriate blend of skills and experience.
spend time with the Chairman and Directors along with the Company Secretary and Group HR Director to The Board, and each of its Committees, considered the understand the running of the Board and its Committees.
feedback and agreed actions plans for the forthcoming He had meetings with the Business Unit Directors and year.
For the Board, the plan included: visited sites in the UK and Continental Europe to gain an understanding of the business.
He also met with the succession planning: Groups principal external advisers.
ensuring that the Board remains alive to the cyclical Ongoing training is provided to all Directors either during risks of the property market: and Board or Committee meetings or through one-to-one early dialogue with the Directors ahead of the strategy meetings with senior managers.
day to make sure that maximum value is derived from Most Board meetings take place in London but during the the day.
year meetings were also held at the Slough Trading Estate Set out below are some quotes from Lintstocks report.
The Board met with management teams in these locations and had tours of the Groups a few respondents felt the Board would benefit from property portfolios in these areas.
See the case study on enhanced diversity page 75 for more information about how the Directors the quality of the relationships between the Board and keep up to date.
senior management was also very highly rated, with a During the year, the Chairman met with the Nongood, open tone from management said to help the Executive Directors to discuss their respective contribution Board dynamic and training needs, business matters and succession it was suggested that the Board benefited from an planning.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the atmosphere that promoted open and challenging discussion Company Secretary are always available for the Directors to discuss any issues concerning Board meetings or site visits were seen to add real colour to the business other matters.
the Boards management and oversight of risk was All Directors have access to the advice and services of positively rated overall, with it being suggested that risk the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring management appeared well covered at the Board and compliance with Board procedures.
Directors have the Audit Committee right to seek independent professional advice at the the Boards visibility of potential successors for key positions Companys reasonable expense.
from within the business was positively rated overall The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance, which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 with himself and the Senior Independent Director.
ENGAGEMENT WITH One shareholder accepted this offer.
All Directors are SHAREHOLDERS available for meetings with shareholders if requested.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director The Chairman regularly attends the financial results are the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, presentations.
The Board is kept informed about fund managers, analysts, the press and other interested any discussions with shareholders, and the Directors stakeholders.
The Board is committed to providing are regularly provided with analysts reports and investors with regular announcements of significant events investor feedback.
affecting the Group, including its business strategy and The Companys website, www.
shareholders with comprehensive information on The Company organises a dedicated investor relations the Groups recent business activities and financial programme with institutional investors, which includes developments, including webcasts, press releases and formal events during the year along with a regular series recordings of interviews with the Chief Executive.
of one-to-one and group meetings.
These events also The one-to-one and group meetings provide additional provide an opportunity for shareholders to meet members context around the Groups business strategy and financial of the senior management team.
During 2014, 179 meetings took place with The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are 387 existing and potential institutional investors.
Of these available to shareholders to discuss governance and meetings, the Chief Executive attended 149 meetings, and strategy or any concerns they may have which contact the Group Finance Director 119 meetings.
Additionally, through the usual channels has failed to resolve or is around 90 finance professionals join the conference otherwise inappropriate.
In April 2014, the Chairman calls which are arranged following the quarterly contacted 14 major shareholders and offered a meeting financial announcements.
2014 ACTIVITIES February 2013 full-year results presentation March Roadshows in London, Edinburgh, Amsterdam, Paris and Frankfurt Conferences in Miami, New York and London April IMS trading update for Q1 2014 Annual General Meeting May Investor and Analyst Event focused on the Slough Trading Estate June Conferences in Amsterdam and London July 2014 half-year results Roadshow in London August Roadshow in London September Roadshows in Edinburgh, Amsterdam and London as well as cities across the US and Canada Conferences in New York and London October IMS trading update for Q3 2014 Roadshow in Paris November Roadshows across Asia December Conference in London proposes separate resolutions on each substantially Constructive use of the AGM separate issue, with voting conducted by poll.
The Board The AGM is an opportunity for the Directors to believes this voting process is more democratic than a communicate with, and answer questions from, show of hands since all shares voted at the meeting, as well shareholders.
All Directors are available to meet informally as proxy votes lodged before the meeting, are counted.
with shareholders before and after the meeting.
Prior to For each resolution, shareholders will have the option to the formal business of the meeting, the Chief Executive vote either for or against a resolution, or to withhold their makes a presentation on the progress and performance of vote.
Following the meeting, the results of votes lodged for the Group.
and against each resolution are announced to the London The Notice of AGM is dispatched to shareholders at least Stock Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
20 working days before the meeting.
The Company 74 Governance STRATEGY CASE STUDY Ensuring that the Companys strategy delivers sustainable long-term value for our investors is a key priority for the Board.
We spend a good deal of time throughout the year discussing strategy and the property market cycle to ensure that Board members are well equipped to make decisions on the key issues which we face.
Strategy day Throughout the year Each year, the Board takes time out of its usual schedule to stand back Reviewing and setting strategy is not just an annual event.
During the from its regular business and consider broader strategic issues.
year, the Board spent time discussing a number of strategic issues and approving evolutionary refinements to our strategy, including: At the 2014 strategy day, the Board received presentations from Capital Economics on the macro-economic environment and from a review of land holdings across the Group and approved a CBRE on the outlook for the property investment market.
This helped plan for acquiring further land in selected locations: the Board to get a clearer view of the occupational and investment agreed our strategy for future investments in data centres: property market outlooks, which are vital as they affect the amount of risk which we are prepared to accept over the medium term.
a review of our light industrial urban distribution portfolio in LCP, specialist consultants in supply chain management, also attended Continental Europe and plans for growth: and for part of the meeting to share with the Board some of the work they have been doing with the Company around the changes taking agreed plans for expanding our German big box logistics and place in the retail sector supply chain.
The presentation focused on light industrial business.
e-commerce and convenience retail, which are two of the biggest occupational influences on our business at the moment, and considered some other wider consumer trends.
After discussing the external influences on the business, the rest of the strategy day was spent considering outputs from the individual asset planning process: portfolio investment strategy: the five-year Group Medium Term Financial Plan: and scenario planning, including a detailed look at the financial assumptions of our strategic plan and the key risks associated with it.
The Directors had an opportunity to discuss the presentations and the potential impact of the issues raised on our strategic choices.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 HOW THE DIRECTORS KEEP UP TO DATE CASE STUDY In order to ensure good quality decision making it is vital that all of the Directors are kept up to date, not only about the business, but also about shareholder views, changing governance requirements and the macro-economic environment in which we operate.
External presentations Outside Board meetings During 2014, presentations were received from CBRE, LCP and On appointment as a Non-Executive Director, Martin Moore was Capital Economics, as well as from UBS and Bank of America Merrill given a tailored induction programme, as set out on page 72.
Presentations are also given to the Board every six months by Individual Non-Executive Directors made site visits to facilities in the Groups valuers, CBRE and JLL, which include a forward-looking Slough and Paris.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to spend view of the wider investment and occupational markets in which we time with senior managers within the business, such as with the operate.
Headof Tax and the Group HR Director.
Internal presentations To enhance his understanding of the day-to-day issues facing the Twice a year, Board meetings are held at regional offices and include Group, the Chairman has regular lunches at different office locations a tour of local assets.
In 2014, the Board visited assets in Dsseldorf with employees varying in seniority, from a cross-section of the and Slough.
The Chairman visited various sites during the year, including Dsseldorf, Paris and Slough.
He also attended the 2014 Employee During the year, the Board was given presentations by SEGRO Conference.
specialists on: Analysts reports and sector updates are circulated weekly and UK aviation strategy and the results of Sir Howard Davies Airports Directors receive regular summaries of press cuttings.
Between Commission interim review: meetings, the Chief Executive and the Chairman regularly communicate with the Directors to update them on recent the evolving data centre market: developments.
emerging retail trends and their impact on occupational and investment demand for light industrial and logistics warehouses: Individually, Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and conferences associated with their areas of expertise or responsibility.
the property market cycle: customer feedback: legal, governance and regulatory matters: and analysis of the performance and strategy against our peers.
