Nomination Committee report The Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, including diversity and the balance of Executive and NonExecutive Directors.
Charles Cayzer Chairman, Nomination Committee The Committee comprised throughout the year of the Certain members met and the Committee reviewed Chairman and three independent Non-Executive Directors RosalynWiltons CV and references and satisfied itself and was chaired by Charles Cayzer.
that she had no former links to the Company or Board.
It considered her extensive corporate and risk management The Committee considers succession planning for Directors experience would complement and improve the existing and other senior executive positions and reviews the skill set of the Non-Executive Directors.
Valentine Beresford leadership of the Company.
It is responsible for identifying and Mark Stirling were founders and former Directors of and approving candidates to fill Board vacancies Metric Property Investments plc and have worked with using external search consultants where appropriate.
the Executive Board previously at Pillar Property Plc and Recommendations on Committee membership changes BritishLand.
Valentine is responsible for Investment and are made to the Board.
Mark for Asset Management and both are considered instrumental to the successful future of the business.
Members of Committee Both have served throughout the year as members of the Executive Committee to which the Board delegates Meetings Date Meetings eligible to responsibility for the day to day running of the Group.
Member appointed attended attend The Committee considered the need to maintain the Patrick Vaughan 1 November 2012 2 2 appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of Charles Cayzer 1 November 2012 2 2 the industry regarding these appointments and the balance Alec Pelmore 25 January 2013 2 2 of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It did not believe Philip Watson 25 January 2013 1 2 it was necessary to engage an external search agency in this process and was satisfied that the Boards composition Meetings and activities during the year following the appointments met the Codes requirements.
The Committee met twice during the year to consider changes to the Remuneration Committee composition following the resignations of Andrew Huntley and Mark Burton, the external Non-Executive appointment of RosalynWilton to the Board and Audit Committee and the internal executive appointments of Valentine Beresford and Mark Stirling to the Board.
LondonMetric Property Plc 66 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report continued Diversity The Board is committed The Nomination Committee acknowledges all aspects of diversity including gender, ethnic origin, age, business skills to a culture that attracts and experience throughout the Company at every level and retains talented of recruitment.
individuals to deliver The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains talented individuals to deliver outstanding results outstanding results and and as part of this it promotes diversity across a range of as part of this it promotes criteria including skills, knowledge, experience, gender and ethnicity.
It supports the Davies report recommendations to diversity across a range promote greater female representation.
It does not believe, of criteria.
however, given the size of the Company and Board, that setting diversity targets is appropriate.
This will be kept under review in light of the requirements for Board succession and development.
Board performance and evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and that of the Committees to ensure each continues to operate effectively.
It considers the balance of skills, knowledge and diversity of the Board and how it works together as a unit.
This process is led by the Chairman and involves the completion of a questionnaire in advance of a series of individual meetings.
The questionnaire is based on the components of good governance and focuses on the objectives, composition and performance of the Board, individuals and Committees.
The Company Secretary collates the results and reports them to the Nomination Committee for review.
The results of the internal evaluation were positive and indicated the Board, its Committees and individual Directors were operating effectively.
Their key findings were as follows: Committees were reporting any findings to the Board following their meetings Business strategy was clearly communicated and performance was aligned with strategy Regular and open communication with shareholders exists The review of the Chairmans performance was led by the Senior Independent Director who concluded that the Chairmans leadership was of a high standard and a key contributor to the success of the business in the year.
The Board has decided to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation of its performance and of its Committees this year and has started the process.
Charles Cayzer Chairman, Nomination Committee 3 June 2014 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 67
