Audit Committee report This year the Audit Committee has focused on the audit tender process and appointment of external auditors as well as reviewing changes to the narrative reporting and corporate governance disclosures in the annual report.
Humphrey Price Chairman of Audit Committee The Board asked the Committee to advise on the statement Meetings by the Directors that the annual report, when read as a The Committee met four times last year, with meetings whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides aligned to the Companys financial reporting timetable.
the requisite information for shareholders to assess the Meetings are attended by the Committee members and, Groups performance and business strategy.
The Committee by invitation, the Groups external auditor, independent was satisfied that taken as a whole the 2014 report is fair, property valuers CBRE Ltd and Savills Advisory Services balanced and understandable and confirmed this to the Limited, the Finance Director and senior management.
Board, whose statement in this regard is set out on page 87.
Time is allocated for the Committee to meet the external auditor without management present.
In addition, the Membership Chairman has separate and ad hoc meetings with the The Committee currently comprises entirely of five audit partner.
NonExecutive Directors chaired by Humphrey Price.
Mark Burton retired from the Board and Committee on Activities during the year 10 July 2013 and Rosalyn Wilton was appointed to the Board During the year, the work undertaken by the Committee has and Committee on 25 March 2014.
Members have no day to included the following: day involvement with the Company.
A formal external audit tender process in September 2013.
Meetings A recommendation was made to the Board to appoint Meetings eligible to Members Date appointed attended attend Deloitte LLP Deloitte as new auditors of the Group and its subsidiaries Humphrey Price 1 October 2010 4 4 Considered and discussed with the external auditors at Charles Cayzer 1 October 2010 4 4 audit planning meetings the key accounting treatments Andrew Varley 25 January 2013 4 4 and significant reporting judgements in advance of interim Alec Pelmore 25 January 2013 4 4 and annual results Mark Burton 1 October 2010 1 1 Reviewed interim and annual financial statements, resigned 10 July 2013 including consideration of key accounting issues and Rosalyn Wilton 25 March 2014 areas of significant judgement, compliance with statutory obligations and accounting standards and consistency Humphrey Price brings recent and relevant financial throughout the report experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Reviewed the processes undertaken to ensure that code as a Chartered Accountant, former Finance Director the Board is able to confirm that the annual financial and Audit Committee Chairman of Hansteen Holdings Plc.
statements are fair, balanced and understandable Met the independent property valuers to discuss the interim and annual portfolio valuations on a property by property basis Assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor which included reviewing their independence, objectivity, terms of engagement, the scope of their audit and effectiveness of the audit process Monitored the level of non audit fees and the scope of nonaudit services provided in the year LondonMetric Property Plc 68 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report continued Property valuations The Committee monitors All of the Groups investment properties are externally valued by independent property valuers.
As the property the integrity of the valuation is a significant part of the Groups reported financial information performance it is a key area of focus.
Property valuations are inherently subjective and require significant judgement.
published in the interim The Committee met twice with the property valuers without and annual statements.
management present to discuss the interim and annual valuations and to assess the integrity of the valuation process.
The key judgements applied to individual valuations and any issues raised with management were considered and discussed.
The ERV growth and yield compression assumptions were challenged and supporting market evidence was provided to enable the Committee to conclude that the assumptions applied to the valuations were appropriate.
As part of their audit work, Deloitte valuation specialists metthe external valuers without management present Considered the need for an internal audit function and andhad an open dialogue and exchange of information concluded it was unnecessary at present, given the size that is independent of management.
and complexity of the business, but agreed to keep the matter under regular review Property transactions Reviewed the Groups internal controls and risk The accounting treatment for corporate acquisitions was management systems, whistleblowing arrangements considered to ensure compliance with IFRS3 Business and procedures for detecting and preventing fraud Combinations.
This included the acquisition of ten Odeon and bribery.
A detailed internal control evaluation cinemas, the Royal Mail Distribution Unit in Daventry, questionnaire and risk assessment matrix was completed the Argos Distribution Unit in Bedford and the Norbert by management and reviewed by the Committee.
Dentressengle Distribution Unit at Crick.
All transactions The risk register identified key risks and the management were considered to be property acquisitions in accordance and operational framework in place to address, monitor with IFRS3.
and minimise the key risks.
The Committee reported their findings to the Board Investments in joint ventures Considered the appropriateness of the going The Committee considered the accounting treatment for concern assumption the Groups 30.5% interest in 27 DFS retail units acquired in Reviewed its own effectiveness, Terms of Reference, the year by LMP Retail Warehouse JV Property Unit Trust, a constitution and performance joint venture created with LVS II Lux x S. a. r. l. The Committee was satisfied that the Groups interest was accounted for Financial reporting and significant judgements as a joint venture under the equity method and with the presentation of information in note 11 to the accounts.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial information published in the interim and annual statements and considers the extent to which suitable accounting policies have been adopted, presented and disclosed.
In assessing this, it considers whether management has made suitable and appropriate estimates and judgements, and seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
In particular, it considers those estimates material to the Groups results and those involving a high level of complexity or judgement.
The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee and assessed withtheexternal auditors during the year were as follows: LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 69 Audit Committee report continued Intangible assets senior management.
A comparison of the salient points was undertaken, including consideration of sectorrelated The Committee considered the carrying value of the exposure and experience at firm and lead partner level, Groups intangible asset created in 2010 on the acquisition technical and advisory support teams, audit approach, of the Property Advisory Agreement for LSP Green Park extent of transitionary work and proposed fees.
Property Trust and the impairment review undertaken by management in the year.
It was satisfied that the asset Following their review, the Committee made a had been fully impaired in the year as no significant further recommendation to the Board to appoint Deloitte LLP as investment had been made since the sale of the majority external auditor of the Company and the Group.
of assets held by the joint venture to support the level of Current UK regulations require rotation of the lead audit management fees receivable.
partner every five years and a formal tender of the auditors A number of other judgements made by management every ten years.
The Committee is supportive of these were considered including those applied to the charge regulatory requirements.
for equity settled remuneration, bad debt provisions and Since the appointment the Committee has assessed the the recoverability of financial assets, none of which had a performance, independence and objectivity of the external material impact on the financial statements.
In addition, auditors in conjunction with the senior management team.
the presentation of recurring and exceptional items in In making this assessment the Committee considers the the income statement was reviewed and considered to qualifications, expertise and resources of the audit team be appropriate.
as well as the quality of the audit deliverables.
It recognises Management confirmed that they were not aware of any the importance of auditor objectivity and has reviewed material misstatements and the auditors confirmed they the level of non audit fees paid in the year of 45,000 to had not found any material misstatements in the course of ensure their independence was not compromised.
into account the fact that taxation services and advice is provided separately by PwC and corporate due diligence After reviewing reports from management and following its work is undertaken by BDO LLP.
It is satisfied that the audit discussions with the auditors and valuers, the Committee is is an effective process and an appropriate independent satisfied that the key financial judgements and estimates challenge and review.
have been appropriately and adequately addressed by the Executive Directors, reviewed by the external auditor and The Companys policy governing the provision of non audit reported in these financial statements.
services considers each appointment on a case by case basis.
Taxation, valuation, due diligence and remuneration External audit services are generally provided by other professions but other advisory services, including but not limited to Following the merger of the Company with Metric Property taxation, REIT compliance, regulatory and shareholder Investments plc in January 2013, the Directors felt it was circulars, may be undertaken by the external auditor given appropriate to formally tender the audit of the Group and their knowledge of the Groups business.
In August 2013, four firms were invited to Directors can authorise an engagement up to a fee limit tender.
Three submissions were made and all firms presented of 100,000, above which the engagement is referred to to the Committee Chairman, the Finance Director and the Audit Committee for review and approval.
Deloitte LLP has confirmed to the Audit Committee that they remain independent and have maintained internal safeguards to ensure the objectivity of the engagement partner and audit The Committee met staff is not impaired.
four times last year, with meetings aligned to the Companys financial Humphrey Price reporting timetable.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 June 2014 LondonMetric Property Plc 70 Annual report and accounts 2014
