Corporate governance The Board continues to be committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance which it considers underpins the successful management of the business and the delivery of its strategic objectives.
Governance framework LondonMetric Board Chairman: Patrick Vaughan Board Committees Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Humphrey Price James Dean Charles Cayzer Investment Asset Committee Management Committee Board Committee members Audit Remuneration Nomination Member Capacity Committee Committee Committee Patrick Vaughan Executive Charles Cayzer Non-Executive James Dean Non-Executive Alec Pelmore Non-Executive Humphrey Price Non-Executive Andrew Varley Non-Executive Philip Watson Non-Executive Rosalyn Wilton Non-Executive LondonMetric Property Plc 60 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued The Board has considered the Companys compliance partners was considered to be crucial for their continued with the main principles and provisions of the UK Corporate support and to provide shareholders with a balanced Governance Code the Code published by the Financial and effective Board.
Leading shareholders of both former Reporting Council in September 2012 and has sought to put companies were consulted at the time and the reasons in place practices to enable full compliance.
The Board for his appointment explained to them.
His executive fully supports the principles set out in the Code and can capacity represented a commitment previously given to confirm that it applied all of the principles of the Code for the shareholders on the internalisation of the management the year under review and to the date of this report except company in 2010, to continue at least until 30 September as explained below.
2013, at which time the three-year lock-in period created on the internalisation came to an end.
The Board now feels that Good governance is a key strategic priority and compliance it is appropriate, a year on from the successful merger of the with the Code has been the subject of significant debate.
two businesses and repositioning of the portfolio, that best As a result the Board has decided that, with effect from governance practice be adopted and that the Chairmans 1 October 2014, Patrick Vaughan will undertake his role as role should operate in a non-executive capacity.
This will Chairman in a non-executive capacity.
Future succession planning has led to a further three Board The composition of the Board changed following last years appointments, as discussed below, and the planned AGM when both Mark Burton and Andrew Huntley decided retirement of Humphrey Price in March 2015. not to offer themselves for re-election.
The remaining Board This report sets out the Companys principal governance members, comprising three Executive and six Non-Executive policies and practices and explains how it complies with the Directors, held office throughout the year.
The Boards provisions of the Code.
composition is continually reviewed to ensure it has the correct balance of skills required for proper stewardship of The Board of Directors the business and to plan for future succession.
Consequently, a new female member, Rosalyn Wilton, was appointed Composition to the Board and Audit Committee on 25 March 2014.
The Nomination Committee keeps the composition of the Rosalyns full biography is on page 59.
Being a Non-Executive Board under review and makes recommendations on the Director, Chairman of the Risk Committee and member appointment of Directors.
of the AuditCommittee at AXA UK Limited, Rosalyn brings extensive experience to complement the existing expertise The Board has comprised throughout the year of the of the Board members.
Executive Chairman, two other Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
A further Non-Executive Director In addition, it was decided on 3 June 2014 to promote and two further Executive Directors were appointed to Valentine Beresford and Mark Stirling to the Executive Board.
the Board in March 2014 and June 2014 respectively.
Valentine and Mark were founders and former Directors The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on of Metric Property Investments plc and have worked with pages 58 to 59. the existing Executive Board for many years previously at Pillar Property Plc and British Land.
Valentine is responsible Following the merger of the Company with Metric Property for Investment and Mark for Asset Management and both Investments plc Metric last year, Patrick Vaughan was are considered instrumental to the successful future of the appointed as Executive Chairman.
Although this did not business.
Both have served throughout the year as members comply with Provision A.
3.1, which discourages a chief of the Executive Committee to which the Board delegates executive becoming chairman of the same company, the responsibility for the day to day running of the Group.
Board considered it an appropriate exception to maintain continuity of leadership and to facilitate the combination Humphrey Price has announced his intention to retire in of the two businesses given his excellent prior working March2015.
Humphrey has had a long and successful relationship with the newly appointed Chief Executive, working relationship with the Executive Board, who would Andrew Jones.
His experience as a founder of London like to thank him for the valuable contribution he has made.
& Stamford and his relationship with key joint venture LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 61 Corporate governance continued Meetings Meetings eligible to The Board is collectively Member Date appointed attended attend responsible to the Patrick Vaughan 13 January 2010 7 7 shareholders for the Andrew Jones 25 January 2013 7 7 strategy, control and Martin McGann 13 January 2010 7 7 effective leadership of Charles Cayzer 29 July 2010 7 7 the Group.
James Dean 29 July 2010 6 7 Humphrey Price 29 July 2010 7 7 Andrew Varley 25 January 2013 7 7 Alec Pelmore 25 January 2013 7 7 Philip Watson 25 January 2013 7 7 Rosalyn Wilton 25 March 2014 Mark Burton 29 July 2010 1 1 Resigned 10 July 2013 Andrew Huntley 25 January 2013 1 Resigned 10 July 2013 Following the proposed changes to the composition of the All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, there will be four Executive and six independent NonBoard and of the Committees on which they serve, and to Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman and Humphrey devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable Price, who is not considered to be independent.
The Boards them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Where Directors are composition meets the Codes requirement that at least half unable to attend meetings, their comments are provided to of its members, excluding the Chairman, are independent the Board prior to the meeting.
Board activities There is a division of responsibility between the Executive The Board is collectively responsible to the shareholders for Chairman and Chief Executive which has been approved the strategy, control and effective leadership of the Group.
The Chairman is responsible for leading The Executive Directors are responsible for the business the Board and monitoring its effectiveness and the Chief strategy and transactions.
The Non-Executive Directors are Executive is responsible for the day to day management responsible for ensuring strategies proposed by the Executive of the Group and the implementation and delivery of its Board are fully considered and for bringing independent agreed strategic objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken.
There is a formal ensuring a constructive relationship between Executive and schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval, which Non-Executive Directors and for encouraging and fostering is reviewed and updated annually, including the following: a culture of Boardroom challenge and debate.
Setting and monitoring of overall strategy Attendance at Board meetings Ensuring there are adequate resources to meet objectives The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together Approving property and corporate acquisitions with further ad hoc meetings as required to deal with and disposals transactional matters.
Non-Executive Directors are Approving major capital expenditure projects encouraged to communicate directly with the Executive Approving interim and annual financial statements Directors and senior management between scheduled and dividends Board meetings, as part of each Directors contribution to Reviewing property valuations the delivery of strategy and enhanced shareholder returns.
Reviewing treasury and financing arrangements The following table shows Directors attendance at Board Internal control and risk management meetings they were eligible to attend during the year: Reviewing corporate governance arrangements and succession planning Evaluating the performance of the Board and Committees LondonMetric Property Plc 62 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued The Board delegates authority to its committees to assist Time commitment in meeting its business objectives and to maintain a sound The commitments of each Director outside of the Company system of internal control and risk management.
are kept under review by the Board to ensure that sufficient The day to day running of the Group is delegated by the time is available to enable them to discharge their Board to the Executive Committee, comprising the Executive responsibilities effectively.
The Board must be informed of Directors and Valentine Beresford Head of Investments and any changes to Directors other appointments.
Mark Stirling Head of Asset Management.
Induction and professional development The Executive Committee meets monthly to discuss The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and property investment divestment, development and asset ongoing training is provided to Directors.
The Company management activities and the operational management arranges an induction programme for all new Directors of the Group.
The Executive Committee supports the Chief to help them develop an understanding of the business Executive in the delivery of strategy, the achievement including its strategy, processes, people, assets, finances, of financial and operating targets and the assessment risks and controls.
Following the appointment of Rosalyn and management of business risks.
The minutes of these Wilton, a comprehensive briefing pack was prepared which meetings are made available to the Board.
There are included a summary of key transactions and assets, financial informal meetings between the Executive Directors at budgets and results, debt facilities, risks and controls.
This was other times and they are involved in all significant business presented by the senior management team who were discussions and decisions due to the size of the organisation.
available to answer any questions raised.
Further meetings The Executive Committee has established two sub were held individually with the Chairman of the Audit Committees: the Investment Committee, chaired Committee, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Audit Partner by Valentine Beresford, and the Asset Management and other members of the senior management team, Committee, chaired by Mark Stirling.
Both Committees including a property tour.
comprise members of the Executive Committee and senior Training and information updates in relation to the Groups management team and meet at least monthly.
business and regulatory responsibilities is provided to Information flow the Directors through Board briefing papers, reports from advisors, presentations by senior executives and The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, property visits.
Each Director is expected to maintain ensure that the Directors receive clear information on all his or her professional skills and take responsibility for relevant matters on a timely basis.
Comprehensive reports identifying their individual training needs to ensure they are and briefing papers are circulated one week prior to Board adequately informed about the Groups strategy, business and Committee meetings to give the Directors time to and responsibilities.
thoroughly digest the information provided and promote an informed Boardroom debate.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to familiarise themselves with the Groups business through regular The Board papers contain property and financial updates communications with the Executive Directors and as well as other specific papers relating to agenda items.
The Board receives other ad hoc papers of a transactional nature at other times, circulated by email, for their review Re-election of Directors and approval.
All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders Presentations on current and prospective property portfolios at the first Annual General Meeting following their are made to the Board by senior management where appointment and in accordance with the Code all Directors appropriate and property visits are arranged.
will stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Independent advice All Directors have access at all times to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and governance regulations are complied with.
The Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
None of the Directors sought such advice in the year.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 63 Corporate governance continued Non-Executive Directors to the Executive Directors for the Non-Executive Directors and shareholders as required.
He has met with a number The Non-Executive Board is a diverse group with a wide of significant shareholders during the year and he is range of experience encompassing property, finance, available to meet with shareholders at their request to fund management, investment and risk management and address concerns or, if other communication channels fail, retailing.
They are responsible for bringing independent and to resolve queries raised.
No such requests were received objective scrutiny and judgement to all matters raised and from shareholders in the year.
Each of the Directors, other than Humphrey Director also leads the annual performance appraisal of Price, is considered to be independent in accordance with the Chairman.
the provisions of the Code.
Some investors may consider that Humphrey Prices long working relationship with the Positions held by the Non-Executive Directors are set out Executive Directors, particularly at Pillar Property Plc and in their biographies on pages 58 to 59.
On appointment London & Stamford, could compromise his independence.
they are advised of the likely time commitment to fulfil the The Board maintains that his knowledge, experience and role.
The ability of individual Directors to allocate sufficient contribution at Board and Committee meetings and time to discharge their responsibilities is considered as his ability to contribute to unbiased and independent part of the annual evaluation process, overseen by the debates make him a most qualified and appropriate NonChairman.
The Board is satisfied that each of the NonExecutive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Executive Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Humphrey Price has announced his intention to retire from Companys business.
the Board in March 2015 and Rosalyn Wilton was appointed as Non-Executive Director in March 2014.
Board Committees Charles Cayzer is a Non-Executive Director of Caledonia The Board has three Committees, the Audit, Remuneration Investments Plc, a shareholder of the Company holding and Nomination Committees, each having written terms a 2.48% interest as at 16 May 2014.
Charles Cayzer himself of reference which are reviewed annually by the Board is not a shareholder in the Company and the Board is and which are available on written request and on the satisfied that there are procedures in place at Caledonia Companys website: www.
Investments to address this potential conflict.
The Board does The Audit and Remuneration Committees are composed not believe Charles Cayzers independence is compromised entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary by his position and is satisfied that he is able to carry out acts as secretary to each Committee and minutes of his function as Senior Independent Director effectively.
meetings are circulated to all Directors.
The Chairman of The Non-Executive Directors have met without the Executive each Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Directors present and will continue to do so as necessary, Board.
Reports from each of the Committees follow on and at least annually, to address any matters which they pages 66 to 83. may wish to raise and to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The outcome of these discussions is conveyed Relations with shareholders to the Chairman by the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director acts as an intermediary Communication with shareholders is given very high priority and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders and fund managers.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are the Groups principal representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers and other interested Communication with parties and manage the Groups investor relations programme assisted by the Head of Investor Relations and shareholders is given the Companys brokers.
The Senior Independent Director very high priority and the is available for shareholders to contact if other channels of communication with the Company are not available Company undertakes or appropriate.
a regular dialogue with During the past year, the Company has held over 70 major shareholders and meetings with its top shareholders, analysts and potential fund managers.
investors in addition to its usual full year and interim results presentations.
The meetings comprised individual meetings, Group presentations and a number of property tours.
Feedback from presentations and meetings is provided to the Board, together with any published brokers reports.
In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Finance Director liaised with the corporate governance LondonMetric Property Plc 64 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued officers of the Companys major shareholders, representing reports are submitted to the Audit Committee to assess 31% of the Companys share capital.
Meetings were offered the effectiveness of the process, compliance with the to shareholders to discuss the changes to the composition Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control and to report any of the Board, the independence of Directors, corporate recommendations for improvement to the Board.
social responsibility and the Remuneration Policy.
The key The Audit Committee has not identified any material Remuneration Policy proposals were circulated by letter weaknesses in the Groups control structure following their to major shareholders in April 2014.
Feedback from review in the year and is satisfied that the Group has in place the governance officers was positive and the Boards effective risk management and internal control systems.
efforts to improve corporate governance processes was acknowledged and commended.
The key elements of the internal control framework are: The Companys website is an important sourceofinformation A defined schedule of matters reserved for the for shareholders and the presentations made to analysts Boards attention following the announcement of the Groups resultsand A comprehensive system of financial budgeting other ad hoc presentations are made available immediately.
and forecasting Measurement of the Groups quarterly financial Shareholders are kept informed of the Companys progress performance against budget and long-term through results statements and other announcements financial plans released through the London Stock Exchange.
Company Short-term cash flow forecasting that is updated, reviewed announcements are made available on the website and considered weekly in light of investment and affording all shareholders full access to material information.
development opportunities The website includes a comprehensive investor relations A formal whistle-blowing policy section containing all RNS announcements, share price information and annual reports available for download.
A management structure with clearly defined roles, responsibilities and limits of authority that enable effective Shareholders can raise questions directly with the Company and efficient decision making at any time through a facility on the website.
Close involvement of the Executive Directors in day to The Executive Directors and Senior Independent Director day operations including regular meetings with senior are available as a contact for shareholders and the whole management on all operational aspects of the business Board attends and is available to answer shareholder Monthly meetings of the Executive, Investment and Asset questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting, Management Committees, which assess and monitor which provides a forum for communication with both private strategic and operational risk and institutional shareholders alike.
Full interim and annual The maintenance of a risk register and a financial reporting reports are sent to all shareholders at least 20 working procedures memorandum, both of which identify key days before the AGM and details of the resolutions to be financial and other internal controls proposed can be found in the Notice of Meeting which A documented appraisal and approval process for all has been sent separately to shareholders.
Details of the significant capital expenditure number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each The Groups internal control processes accord with the resolution will be disclosed at the meeting and posted on Turnbull guidance.
Report and accounts Internal controls The Board has considered the Groups report and accounts The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the and, taking into account the recommendation of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management Audit Committee, is satisfied that, taken as a whole, it is fair, and for reviewing its effectiveness at least annually.
balanced and understandable and provides the necessary The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Board information for the shareholders to assess the Companys and the processes in place to manage and mitigate such performance, business model and strategy.
risks are summarised in the Strategic report on pages 52 to 56.
The system is designed to give the Board confidence that the risks are mitigated or managed as far as possible.
However, it should be noted that no system can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives entirely and can only provide reasonable but not absolute Jadzia Duzniak Company Secretary assurance against material misstatement or loss.
3 June 2014 Executive Directors and senior management meet annually to review the risks facing the business and the controls in place to minimise such risks.
Following these reviews, LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 65
