76 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEEREPORT The Nomination Committees key role is to ensure that the Board has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively and deliver our strategy.
I chair the Committee and the other members are Committee Chairmans Introduction Margaret Ford, Christopher Fisher, Mark Robertshaw The Nomination Committee is responsible for: reviewing and David Sleath.
During 2014, the main focus of the the structure, size and composition of the Board: making Committee was the appointment of an independent recommendations about new appointments to theBoard: Non-Executive Director, Martin Moore.
and ensuring that any such appointment process is formal, rigorous and transparent.
NIGEL RICH CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee listed property company, a property fund manager or Activities from managing a property portfolio for a large nonThe Committee considered and made recommendations property business.
Individuals from a property agency to the Board in respect of: background would also be considered and it would the appointment of Martin Moore as an independent be a benefit for the candidate to have international Non-Executive Director: property experience.
the size, structure and composition of the Board: When the role profile was prepared, the Committee considered the benefits that increased gender diversity the Companys diversity policy: can bring.
Specifically, it noted that as the current Nonthe proposal for the reappointment of Directors at the Executive Directors had held a variety of plc Board-level 2015 AGM: and positions, it would consider candidates who had limited experience of working with listed companies providing the results of the external Committee evaluation.
they had the appropriate knowledge and skills.
This was expected to widen the pool of female candidates who Appointment of Directors might be suitable for the role.
In Autumn 2013, the Committee considered the process Early in 2014, the Committee undertook a review of to appoint a successor to Thom Wernink who would executive search firms and appointed Zygos Partnership be retiring as a Non-Executive Director at the 2014 to conduct the search.
The remit to Zygos Partnership AGM, having served approximately nine years on the was to review candidates from a wide range of Board.
At that time, the Committee considered the size backgrounds to ensure the best candidates, with the of the Board, including the balance of Executive and most appropriate skills, were selected.
Zygos Partnership Non-Executive Directors, and concluded that there do not have any other connection with the Company.
were sufficient independent Non-Executive Directors Nomination Committee members interviewed all of the to ensure there was appropriate challenge at meetings.
candidates on the shortlist, over 40 per cent of whom The Committee also reviewed the skills and experience were women.
It was agreed that Martin Moore was the of the Non-Executive Directors and assessed the specific candidate who best met the skills and experience identified skills, attributes and experience that would be required in the role profile and a recommendation was made to the of the successor see chart opposite.
The Committee Board to appoint him.
concluded that the candidate must have real estate experience, which could be from another, non-competing, SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 Skills and experience of the Non-Executive Directors NIGEL MARGARET CHRISTOPHER MARTIN MARK DOUG EXPERIENCE RICH FORD FISHER MOORE ROBERTSHAW WEBB Real Estate Investment Banking Broking Financial Management General Management International Markets UK Public Company Line Management Diversity Appraisal process and reappointment of Directors and succession planning The Committee regularly reviews the Companys policy on diversity.
The Board recognises the benefits The Senior Independent Director leads an annual of diversity in its broadest sense and the value this performance review of the Chairman, while the brings to the organisation in terms of skills, knowledge Chairman leads the appraisal of the Chief Executive.
There is no intention to increase the The performance of the other Executive Directors is size of the Board solely to enable further women to be appraised by the Chief Executive, with feedback from appointed.
When vacancies do arise the remit to the the other Directors where appropriate.
As explained search consultants will be, as with the appointment of in the Governance Report, the Board undertook an Martin Moore, to select candidates from a wide range of external evaluation of the performance of the Board and backgrounds to satisfy the Boards fundamental obligation its Committees, which included a review of the Nonto ensure that the most suitable candidates are appointed Executive Directors.
to promote the success of the Company as well as to Following these appraisal processes, the Committee comply with equal opportunities regulations.
concluded that each of the Directors will be proposed for The pace at which we improve diversity on the Board election or re-election at the 2015 AGM and that each andin senior management positions will depend, to some of them continues to make an effective contribution to extent, on the availability of suitable vacancies as well as the Board.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors letters SEGRO has a good record of promoting and appointing of appointment and their fees are set out in the women to senior roles, with women holding four out of Remuneration Report and the Remuneration Policy.
the 18 positions on its Leadership Team.
The Company Annually, the Leadership Team assesses talent at all levels offers flexible training and mentoring programmes across the Group, to ensure that there are effective Group to ensure that all employees achieve their potential, and individual development plans in place.
The Executive taking account of their individual development needs.
Committee also considers succession planning, so that SEGRO continues to be an equal opportunities employer for every senior role, plans are in place for temporary, and will maintain its merit-based approach to recruitment.
emergency cover and for longer-term promotions.
The Chairman participates in the FTSE 100 CrossThe Group HR Director annually presents to the Board Company Mentoring Programme.
on talent management and succession planning for Details of the gender diversity of the Board and across the Executive Directors and senior executives below the Company are set out on page 53 and the Companys Board level.
diversity policy is available on the website.
