48 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Dear Shareholder We have expanded the membership of the Groups LETTER FROM THE This has been a busy year for the Committee with Executive Committee, giving it greater responsibility our key area of focus being succession planning for for the running of the business and oversight of its CHAIRMAN OF THE the Board and senior management.
Additional opportunities have been Some time ago, Sir Stuart Rose, David Rough arranged for senior managers to attend Board NOMINATIONS and Richard Akers indicated their intention to retire.
meetings for relevant agenda items and for Directors Each of them was flexible in terms of their timing to meet them at other events.
This will ensure that COMMITTEE for leaving the Board which has been enormously your Board remains connected with the business and helpful to us.
It meant that we were able to ensure will continue to receive operational insights from a continuity amongst the Non-executives whilst the variety of people.
The year began with our search for an additional Richards retirement presented us with the Non-executive Director.
The mandate to our opportunity to undertake a careful re-organisation executive search firm, the Zygos Partnership, of the management team within the Retail business.
incorporated a request to include candidates from We have also made a series of promotions below diverse backgrounds who might not otherwise be Board level, which has allowed us to bring through considered for this role.
We were keen to see people some exceptional talent.
who would be able to challenge effectively whilst With these changes come risks.
We are losing being a good fit and having the potential to serve people with considerable experience of our business on the Board for a long time.
and who have been with the Company through two We were very pleased with the long list of property cycles.
Nevertheless, the Board retains a candidates provided by our search firm.
The very experienced executive team and a number of candidates included some exceptional people, drawn Non-executives who also have experience of guiding from a diverse range of backgrounds, ages, industries companies through property cycles.
Many of these candidates we might of Richard Akers means a reduction in the number not have considered in the past.
The Committee of Executive Directors over the last two years from spent a great deal of time with candidates and the four to two.
people we saw were so good that we appointed two The Committee and the wider Board are mindful rather than one.
We will continue to monitor the of the risks that accompany these changes and have progress of others who do not yet have sufficient initiated steps to address them.
There has been a experience, with a view to considering them for good degree of overlap between the arrival of new vacancies as they arise in the future.
Directors and the departure of retiring Directors.
The result of all of this is the formation of a very The retiring Directors have been generous with their talented team to lead the business.
time and in sharing their perspectives with our new You will find more information on the work of the Board members.
Committee on the following pages, including our progress on Board effectiveness.
Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman Committee members Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman Kevin OByrne Independent Non-executive Director Chris Bartram Independent Non-executive Director Simon Palley Independent The Committees written terms of reference are Non-executive Director joined the available on the Companys website at www.
com about-us corporate-governance board-committees Committee on 27 March 2014 strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 49 Board evaluation cycle Chart 26 Board eFFectiveness Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Evaluation by An evaluation focusing on Interviews with the independent external the issues raised in Year 1 Chairman and Group Nominations Committee agenda consultants General Counsel and The Committee met three times during the Company Secretary year, with items considered including: the appointment of new Non-executive Directors expanding the role of and membership of the Groups Executive Committee a new organisational structure for the London Evaluation of the performance of the Board Chart 27 and Retail businesses the leadership needs and succession planning of the Group including identifying and Review the work of Conclusions of the Progress against Areas for focus developing talent the Board, Board Board Review 2013 14 2014 15 environment and evaluation targets the Boards structure, size, composition, skills use of time and diversity the composition of Board Committees potential conflicts of interest amongst Directors.
This year was the second in the Groups three-year Progress against 2013 evaluation targets review cycle.
The aim was to assess progress on Good progress had been made against the previous Board environment and access to appropriate the items raised during the externally facilitated years Board evaluation targets: information evaluation undertaken last year and to identify any the format of the Groups finance papers have This topic is explored at every Board evaluation and issues arising since.
The review was undertaken been changed significantly to cater for different has resulted in a number of improvements in recent by a series of individual interviews with Directors, preferences amongst the Board.
These are set out in more detail below.
conducted by the Chairman and the General have been very well received A positive, transparent culture exists on the Board Counsel and Company secretary.
the format of Board reports has changed to with each Board member contributing.
The The outcome of the evaluation was fed back to reduce the level of operational focus and to make environment encourages Directors to raise the Board at its meeting in February 2014 and a them more forward looking.
This has facilitated challenging questions, debate issues freely and series of action items agreed.
A summary of these more strategic discussion and increased respond to one other.
participation from Non-executive Directors The papers prepared for the Board were focused The Chairman also met each Director Non-executive Directors have increased the on the priorities of the business and were clear individually and gave them feedback on their own number of visits to properties during the year.
Agendas are well thought performance and suggestions for improvement.
These have included development site visits through and included a number of free slots during Chairmans evaluation conducted by the Groups Health and safety the year for discussion of topics proposed by Kevin oByrne, the senior independent Director, teams, who were able to demonstrate the Groups Non-executive Directors.
led the evaluation of the Chairman after the Board safety procedures and controls in operation.
Attendance at meetings from senior managers meeting in November.
He gave feedback to the some Non-executive Directors visited a proposed below Board level is encouraged.
in addition we Chairman on the outcome.
development in Glasgow in order to understand held two Non-executive Director sessions without plans and the local environment in more detail The review explored three key aspects: the Executive Directors present and Board dinners and suggest enhancements.
The Group will with a variety of attendees including senior 1.
The work of the Board strategy, risk and continue this initiative during the coming year.
support and advice was provided by the control, and performance management Group General Counsel and Company secretary Areas for focus for 2014 15 2.
The Board environment culture and and members of his team.
composition Directors are conscious that the new managing Directors of the London and Retail businesses are Professional development, support, training 3.
The use of Board time planning and not Board members and are keen to ensure that and induction for Directors allocation.
contact with them and other senior managers The Board has two specific knowledge development Conclusions of the review was increased to ensure that Non-executive sessions planned in each year and Directors also The Board concluded that it remained effective Directors remain connected with the business attend other key business events.
and was operating to a high level, with good This year the Board received presentations on the Non-executive Directors have been asked to progress made against the areas for improvement likely technological advances in construction over share more of their insights and experiences identified in the previous evaluation.
No serious the coming years, which was delivered by key gained from their membership of other Boards, issues were raised.
industry figures and a session on Board behaviour, with a view to helping improve the Groups own The Board particularly welcomed the conducted by a leading executive search consultant.
performance improvements to Board papers, which it felt were Board knowledge of the Companys property A number of requests for additional agenda items of a very high standard.
many Directors welcomed portfolio was enhanced through site visits by have been made, including more discussion on the additional time spent at meetings this year Directors to a number of properties and and analysis of competitor activity, and more on discussing the property cycle, its timing and the developments.
This year a number of Directors the impact of technology on the occupational likely impacts on the Group.
Directors wish to focus also attended property tours conducted by the requirements of the Groups customers and on more time on this critical topic going forward.
Groups Health and safety teams, who took them possible new areas for investment within the through the Groups safety procedures in an Groups core sectors.
50 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 To enrich the experience and development of You will see in this report that each of the Groups Executive Directors and senior managers, the Group Executive Committees the operating boards of our supports the taking up of Non-executive directorship London and Retail businesses now include more positions at listed companies and charities.
Richard women both in absolute terms and as a proportion Akers continued as a Non-executive Director of of membership.
Barratt Developments PLC for the whole of the We continue to focus on this area.
participates in the FTsE cross-mentoring programme for women in senior positions wishing to operate at Induction board level.
Through this we provide a mentoring Following their appointments, Cressida Hogg and service for women in FTsE companies and other Edward Bonham Carter received a comprehensive companies reciprocate.
induction arranged by the Chairman and Group General Counsel and Company secretary.
Their Re-election to the Board induction included visits to properties and The effectiveness and commitment of the Nondevelopment sites across the London and Retail executive Directors has been reviewed and is then portfolios, and meetings with a number of senior discussed with each of them.
The review noted that managers in the organisation including Portfolio the time commitment had gradually increased over Directors and Centre managers.
Their familarisation the last five years.
The Nominations Committee is will continue in the coming year with more visits to satisfied with the time commitment of each the Groups properties and meetings with other Non-executive Director during the year and advisers and senior managers.
confident that each of them would be in a position to discharge their duties to the Company in the Board strategy coming year.
With the exception of Richard Akers, The Boards away day to discuss strategy was held who has stepped down from the Board, and David over two days in London and included: Rough, who retires just before the AGm, all Directors detailed consideration of the London and Retail will stand for re-election.
property cycles, their likely timing and impacts on Conflicts of interest the Group, its assets, funding and budget The Board operates a policy to identify and, where the Groups debt strategy, the balance of fixed and appropriate, manage conflicts or potential conflicts floating rate debt and alternative sources of funding of interest.
technology in the future, its impact on shopping The Nominations Committee monitors this and habits and on the property markets in which Land considered that there was a potential for a conflict securities operates of interest to arise for Chris Bartram, Kevin oByrne, presentations from external experts on the Cressida Hogg and Edward Bonham Carter.
The macro-economic environment and property Committee addressed these potential conflicts as market outlook detailed in the table below.
a discussion on people and succession planning across the business.
Potential conflicts of interest Table 28 Director Potential conflict Mitigation Independence The Committee reviewed and confirmed the Chris Bartram Chairman of Orchard Street Investment Chris Bartram did not take part in independence of each Non-executive Director Management OSIM and a Nondiscussions or see relevant information executive Director of The Crown Estate, on potential acquisitions of property seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGm.
which are, in some areas of operation, where there was a realistic prospect Diversity policy competitors of the Group.
of OSIM or The Crown Estate also The Board works hard to ensure that it is able to being involved.
recruit Directors from different backgrounds, with Kevin OByrne Executive Director of Kingfisher plc, Since operational matters, such as retail diverse experience, perspectives, personalities, skills a large tenant of the Group.
leasing, were unlikely to be considered at and knowledge.
We believe that diversity amongst Board level, the Committee concluded Directors contributes towards a high performing, that in practice conflicts of interest were effective Board.
in last years Annual Report we unlikely to occur.
provided a summary of a new Board diversity policy and are pleased to report progress against it.
Cressida Hogg Has recently accepted a position to In her role, Cressida Hogg will not have We have made good progress in terms of gender lead the infrastructure programme at a any involvement with that development.
leading pension fund which is also the The Group will not share any sensitive diversity, with more women now filling senior Groups joint venture partner at a major information on that subject with her and management positions across all of the major development.
she has agreed not to participate in any divisions of the Company.
Land securities has met discussion that relates to a key decision its target for 25% of the Board to be comprised of regarding her employer.
women, a year ahead of target.
in support of our policy, we will only engage executive search firms Edward Bonham Vice Chairman of Jupiter Fund Edward Bonham Carters position is such who have signed up to the voluntary Code of Carter Management PLC, a fund manager that he is unlikely to be involved in the which evaluates investments which may selection of particular investments and Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
or may not include those of the Group.
has agreed not to participate in any search firms also need to demonstrate their investment decisions which may involve independence from the Company and people the Groups securities.
