38 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Relationships a wider responsibiliTy We aim to manage our assets in a way that benefits those closest to the Company our investors, customers and employees, and those working in our supply chain but also everyone affected by our actions.
We manage most of the buildings we own which We believe that responding to peoples needs means we get to see how people interact with them and giving careful consideration to the environment, and hear their views.
So we gain a strong sense economy and community helps us to create of what people want from a particular building.
enduring value over the long term.
Or put And, because we have control, we can take decisive another way, if we look after our cities, our action to improve things for the better.
cities will look after us.
Adding value through the lifecycle Chart 17 The diagram below illustrates some of the ways in which we work to create value through the lifecycle of a typical asset.
REFURBISH OR RETROFIT TO RE-LET INVEST REINVEST CAPITAL CAPITAL MANAGE DEVELOP SELL BUY Buy Develop Manage Sell Building Inside the building People and economy Inside the building Building The investment manager We design for safety, health We work with the local We work with occupiers to As a result of our investment is given environmental due and wellbeing, considering authority to identify areas manage energy, water and and activity, we will sell a diligence information on the things such as air quality and of social need where we can waste as environmental and better performing building state of the building.
And we collaborate with cost efficiency factors.
This should includes details on physical efficiency and productivity community groups, educators helps to protect the building make it more valuable, risks that could decrease behind the scenes, considering and our supply chain partners from external risks such as which is good news for the value of the property areas such as lifts, reception to address key issues.
Our price volatility, energy security our shareholders.
and, more recently, legislative and loading bays and their activity helps young people and premature obsolescence.
People and economy risk that may affect its effect on the occupiers to raise their aspirations and We also work with occupiers We aim to build a positive performance and value.
educational standards: to make sure the building legacy, leaving a place in a we help to improve living operates as it was designed to.
People and economy Outside the building better state than when we standards through a package When we commit to buying a We design to improve the People and economy arrived.
By helping to make of support, from grants to property, we bring long-term public realm around our In this stage of the lifecycle our peoples lives better, we work experience: and we economic investment to buildings, with health and activities are the same as the strengthen our reputation support economic prosperity that area.
We consider development phase, from and add value to our asset.
by helping to create job the place within its context, working with local authorities opportunities and enabling designing for transport and and groups to helping to people to access those communication connectivity.
And we consider urban prosperity.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Robert Noel Chief Executive sTRATEGiC REPoRT GOVERNANCE FiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs ADDiTioNAL iNFoRmATioN Land Securities Annual Report 2014 39 Governance Including information on our leadership team, Board Committees governance and remuneration.
40 Letter from the Chairman 42 Board of Directors 44 Executive Committee 45 Leadership 48 L etter from the Chairman of the Nominations Committee 51 L etter from the Chairman of the leadership Audit Committee A profile of the Non-executive and 58 D irectors Remuneration Report 77 R eport of the Directors Executive Directors and senior management who lead the Company.
For more information go to: pages 4244 good governance The steps we take to ensure the Company is well managed.
For more information go to: pages 4557 remuneration How we align what management is paid with our performance and the interests of shareholders.
For more information go to: pages 5876
