78 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committees key role is to gain assurance around the processes that support financial reporting, including the valuation of the property portfolio: internal control: risk management: and legal and regulatory compliance in relation to the work of the Committee, together with the financial reporting itself.
More information on the Committee members and their Committee Chairman Introduction experience canbefound on pages 64 and 65.
This Report of the Audit Committee details the key activities of theCommittee during 2014, alongside its The Committee is mindful of shareholder views on principal responsibilities.
During 2014, the Committee has, the ratio and level of audit and non-audit fees received on behalf of the Board, provided independent scrutiny by the external auditor, as well as the provisions of the of the processes in place to monitor the Companys  the Code and the UK financial and non-financial reporting, and has overseen and EU reforms in this respect.
The Committee regularly the adequacy of the risk management framework and reviews and considers the level of services provided to the internal controls of the Group, including performance the Company by the external auditor for both audit and of both the external and internal audit functions.
non-audit work and is satisfied that the external auditor The Committee has carried out each of its principal remains independent.
responsibilities, receiving relevant reports from the valuers, As referred to in the Chairmans Introduction on page internal and external auditors and management, and 66, the Board has considered it appropriate to early challenging the assumptions and judgements made.
adopt certain of the changes made to the Code bythe I chair the Committee, which met four times this year.
An explanation of how The other Committee members are Christopher Fisher, the Committee has supported the Board to early Margaret Ford and Martin Moore who was appointed to adopt the new provisions in respect of the assessment the Committee in July 2014.
Thom Wernink was also a and monitoring of risk are set out in this Report.
member of the Committee until he stepped down from The Committee also considered the analysis that was the Board at the 2014 AGM.
undertaken to support the additional disclosure in the going concern statement.
By invitation, there were a number of attendees at each of the Committees meetings.
Regular attendees included The Committees Terms of Reference were refreshed the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the during 2014 andare available on the Companys website, Group Finance Director, and the internal and external www.
To help the Committee discharge its duties, presentations were also given by the Chief Operating Officer, the Head of Corporate Finance, the Group DOUG WEBB FinancialController, the Head of Business Information Chairman of the AuditCommittee Systems and RiskManagement, the Head of Tax and Corporate Finance Manager and the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
The Committee has met privately with the internal and external auditors on two occasions each during the year.
In January 2015, I also met privately with the Companys valuers, CBRE and JLL, to ensure that they were comfortable with the 2014 year-end valuation process.
As the Chief Financial Officer of Meggitt plc, a member of the Hundred Group of Finance Directors and  in England and Wales, Ibring recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee and the Board considers that all Committee members have the experience required.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 connection with the Companys financial statements, together with 2014 principal activities accounting for significant transactions: The principal activities of the Committee in 2014 were: overseeing and challenging the risk management process: reviewing the integrity, consistency and keyaccounting judgements in the Companys halfand full-year financial overseeing internal control, and challenging of the internal control statements, including going concern and supplementary EPRA processes and the control environment, including approving and measures: reviewing the internal audit programme: and monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the internal and overseeing matters relating to tax and any potential impact such external auditors, and also the ratio and level of audit and nonmatters may have on the integrity of the financial statements.
audit fees paid to the external auditor: Chart 1 below sets out the significant matters considered by the assessing the independence of the valuers of the Companys Committee during the year in relation to the financial reporting and the property portfolio and gaining assurance around the valuation actions taken.
This is the largest area of judgement for the Committee in Chart 1: 2014 significant matters SIGNIFICANT MATTER ACTION TAKEN Valuation of assets The Committee, with other Board members present, met with the valuers of the wholly-owned and joint venture assets at each reporting period to review the valuation process, understand any particular issues encountered in the valuation and challenge the processes of the valuers.
Valuation is also covered in the meetings that the Committee holds with the auditor in the absence of Company employees, to ensure that it is comfortable with the way the valuation has been carried out.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee met privately with CBRE and JLL to confirm that they too are satisfied with the way that the valuation has been run.
On the basis of the above, together with discussions with the auditor and the valuers, the Committee concluded that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
Accounting for Throughout the year six acquisitions and 22 disposals completed.
The Committee considered the accounting treatment of these , disposals transactions by receiving and challenging reports from management, and concluded that they had been appropriately recognised in and investments the financial statements.
Revenue recognition The Committee challenged management in respect of the application of policy and internal controls relating to revenue recognition and reviewed reports from the internal auditors, external auditors and management in respect of these areas.
The Committee also agreed managements treatment of a material surrender premium receivable in respect of a lease on a Group asset, along with the appropriate cut-off for inclusion in the financial statements of a number of transactions.
Accounting for complex financial The Committee considered the accounting treatment for complex financial instruments and, as at year end, financial instruments had a instruments total net fair value of 102.6 million excluding joint ventures.
The Committee satisfied itself that the accounting treatment applied by the Company was appropriate, following reports from management and the auditor and a review of the accounting treatment.
Going concern Management submitted a report to the Committee at the halfand full-year Committee meetings which, amongst other matters, set out the Groups liquidity position, covenant headroom, cash flow forecasts and sensitivity analyses, based on the Companys Medium Term Plan and budget.
Advice has been taken on the going concern requirements associated with the changes to the Code.
Following review, the Committee regards the currentrisks associated with going concern as low.
See page 40 of the Principal Risks and page 61 of the Financial Review forfurther detail.
Tax judgements The Committee reviewed the tax judgements made by management in respect of a number of matters including the Californian State tax refund of approximately 34 million and the tax strategy and tax risk appetite of the Group.
The Head of Tax attended Committee meetings to present and discuss the judgements made and answer questions from Committee members.
Tax compliance The Committee monitored the Companys compliance with REIT and SIIC rules receiving reports from the Head of Tax and challenging her in meetings on such compliance.
80 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED UK Corporate Governance Code Further work undertaken bythe Committee The Financial Reporting Council updated the Code in2014, and In addition to issues directly affecting the financial statements, the provided guidance on risk management, internal control and related scope of the Committees work also encompassed many other aspects, financial and business reporting.
The changes will apply to the including: Companys 2015 financial year but the Board has decided to early reviewing and considering the process of identifying and adopt the changes introduced in respect of the assessment and managingrisk: monitoring of risk and the adoption of the additional disclosure in the going concern analysis, since the Company already complies with discussing specific risk presentations which were delivered on key these provisions.
business areas: The Directors are required to confirm that they consider, taken as a considering controls over IT, including in respect of cyber security: whole, that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable testing internal controls: and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In order setting the internal audit programme and reviewing the to comply with this Code requirement, those individuals with overall implementation of recommendations made by the internal audit responsibility for each section of theAnnual Report were briefed function: and on the Code requirements and were given a set of criteria by which reviewing the external auditors fees and its effectiveness.
toassess whether their respective sections were fair, balanced and understandable.
Senior employees not directly involved in the drafting Internal control framework of the Annual Report werethen asked to assess the document as a whole against the same criteria.
Comments were incorporated into the The Committee is responsible for reviewing the internal control final version of the document which was submitted for approval by framework on behalf of the Board.
This review is consistent with the Board.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the controls over the the Code and covers all material areas of the Group, including risk consistency and accuracy of the information presented in the Annual management see pages 38 and 40 of Principal Risks and compliance Report are robust and has confirmed to the Board that the process with controls.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the for recommending that the Board include the fair, balanced and framework through reports from the Group Finance Director and understandable statement is appropriate and proper.
A review by the Group Financial Controller and the internal and external auditors on external auditor has given further assurance in this regard.
progress with internal control activities.
The Committee reviews a schedule which lists all outstanding control points, notes the priority attaching to them and progress against agreed timeframes for resolution.
The Committee confirms that it has not been advised of or identified any failings or weaknesses which it regards to be significant.
The Company has a whistleblowing policy and a service provided by an external company whereby employees or third parties can raise concerns by email or telephone, whether in relation to financial reporting or other matters, in confidence.
A report on whistleblowing matters is made to each meeting and any matters reported are promptly and fully investigated, with external support where necessary.
External auditor tenure Deloitte was appointed as the external auditor following a tender in 2007, and since then, has been reappointed each year on an annual basis.
The most recent audit partner rotation took place before the 2012 year-end audit.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees choice of external auditor or which puts in place a minimum period for Deloittes tenure.
During 2015, the Committee will consider the proposed regulatory changes being introduced by the Code, the Competition and Market Authority and the EU on audit rotation.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 the non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit fees to External audit effectiveness theyear ended 2014, is 56 per cent.
Chart 2 below sets The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external out the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for each of the past audit function on an annual basis and following a three years.
review of the 2014 year-end audit, considers that it was appropriately planned, scoped and executed.
In coming The Committee Chairman has had a number of to this judgement, the Committee has considered the private meetings with the lead audit partner and the rigour and level of scrutiny applied to the audit, as well as Committee is satisfied that Deloitte continues to provide the interaction of the external auditor with the Committee appropriate levels of scepticism and challenge and remains and management.
It is satisfied that Deloitte continued to independent.
Deloitte has provided written confirmation of perform effectively as the external auditor.
The Committee its independence to the Committee.
also assessed managements role in the effectiveness of the external audit process, principally focusing on the Chart 2: Audit and non-audit fees to Deloitte early identification of relevant issues and the quality and 2014 2013 2012 timeliness of papers highlighting significant accounting Audit fees including related assurance judgements.
It is satisfied that managements role in the services m 0.65 0.65 0.68 audit process operated properly and effectively.
Non-audit fees m 0.28 0.63 0.20 External auditor remuneration and Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees % 43 97 29 independence The above table excludes fees paid to Deloitte in respect The Committee considers the remuneration and of joint ventures.
If these were included, the 2014 ratio of independence of the external auditor on an annual audit to non-audit fees would have been 41 per cent.
basis and recommends its remuneration to the Board.
The Committee keeps under close review the ratio of audit to non-audit fees to ensure that the independence Internal audit and objectivity of the external auditor are safeguarded.
As in previous years, assurance of the risk management The Committees policy for the use of the external auditor process, testing of internal controls and setting the internal for non-audit services recognises that there are certain audit programme were key priorities for the Committee.
circumstances where, due to Deloittes expertise and In order to determine the internal audit programme for knowledge of the Company or sector in which it operates, 2014, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial itwill often be in the best position to perform non-audit Controller, the Head of Business Information Systems and services.
Under the policy, the use of the external auditor Risk Management, and the Director of Finance: for non-audit services is subject to pre-clearance by the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, the reviewed the latest Group Risk Register: Committee Chair or the Committee, should the proposed prepared a process risk map setting out key business fee exceed specified thresholds.
During the year, Deloitte and process risks from the Group Risk Register: Real Estate advised the Company on various property related matters.
The Policy for the Approval of Non-Audit selected topics for the internal audit programme, Fees sets out, amongst other matters, when Deloitte Real based on the Group Risk Register and process risk Estate may be used.
The Committee monitors the use of map, paying particular attention to key risks which Deloitte Real Estate and adherence to the Policy, which is have not been subject to recent internal audit: and available to view at www.
discussed and agreed the internal audit programme As anticipated, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees in with the internal auditor.
2014 fell from the 2013 level since much of the 2013 non-audit work carried out by Deloittewas associated with the creation of the SELP joint venture.
In 2014, fees for audit and related assurance services, excluding joint ventures, amounted to 654,000 and the non-audit fees amounted to 284,000.
178,500 of the non-audit fees were attributable to work undertaken by Deloitte Real Estate.
Further details of these fees, and fees in respect of the audit of certain of the Groups joint ventures for which Deloitte is the auditor, are provided in note 6 ii to the financial statements.
The three-year average of 82 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The process for determining the internal audit programme and the programme itself were both approved by the Committee which believes that it is appropriate and effective, particularly since there INTERNAL AUDIT is scope for the Company to react to events, new information and situations which come to light during the year and include them in the CASE STUDY internal audit plan if necessary.
During the year, internal audits were carried out on: Accurate and regular valuation of the Companys property assets valuations: is central to the business, affecting its balance sheet portfolio value, net asset value, total property return and employee incentives.
It is insurance: a significant area of judgement for the Company and is included on the Risk Register and the process risk map as a potential key the processes used to collect sustainability data: business risk.
REIT and tax compliance: Following the procedures described in the internal audit section of this Report, we identified valuation as an area for internal audit property development: in 2014.
The reasons for selecting valuation were presented to the Audit Committee which confirmed that it was an appropriate choice IT processes: for the 2014 internal audit programme.
IT network security: The internal audit reviewed certain of the procedures in place joint venture governance: used to value the Companys properties, with a focus on the December2013 valuation process as an area for substantial supplier set up: testing.
To value a property, the independent third-party valuers are given information by management relating to the properties, subsidiary accounts: and their tenants and lease details.
The information provided included, inter alia, thesize, age and location of the properties, the rent paid, safeguarding against fraud.
the length of leases and other lease terms pertinent to the value Each of these audits confirmed that these areas were appropriately ofthe properties, such as lease breaks and rent reviews.
The valuers controlled, although a number of enhancements were identified which use the information provided to them, together with their market were entered into the schedule which lists all outstanding control points knowledge and expertise, to value each property.
see Internal control framework on page 80.
To carry out this audit, the internal auditor met to discuss the form of the valuation with those employees responsible for it, to ensure that The Committee believes that the value of internal audit is enhanced the valuers had been given appropriate and accurate information by having a third party perform this function, as this supports the required from the Company to adequately assess each property.
independent challenge of management and gives greater access They also reviewed the methods undertaken by the Company to expertise than an internal function could provide.
KPMG has to obtain such information including the compilation of capital performed this role throughout the year.
Once each internal audit is expenditure on each property, and looked at how the data was complete, KPMG issues a questionnaire to the process owner for the transferred from the Company to the valuers, to ensure that key internal audit in question as well as to the other relevant employees, controls were operating effectively.
to ensure that real-time feedback is collected on the quality and The results of the internal audit concluded that the valuation process effectiveness of its audit.
The results of this feedback are provided to was well run, with appropriate controls in place to support the the Committee along with detailed findings and recommendations businesses requirements.
Two minor observations were identified of the internal audits themselves.
The internal auditor also attends in respect of the reliance placed on manual data generation.
It was the relevant Committee meeting to present its report and attends suggested that there should instead be an added emphasis on the private meetings with the Committee to raise any concerns or issues automated generation of data used for valuation purposes.
it has and to discuss any queries of the Committee in the absence The internal auditor attended the May 2014 Audit Committee of management.
meeting to present the findings of this internal audit and to discuss the valuation process with the Committee.
During the year, the In 2015, the Committee will continue to follow a risk-based approach Committee monitored the Companys progress in addressing the to internal audit.
Items scheduled for future internal audit reviews observations raised by the internal auditor.
include: the anti-bribery and corruption policies: the captive insurance programme: a review of the key processes in those offices which are outside of our four largest countries: HR procedures: risk management: health and safety practices: payroll: and process and procedures in place for determining the service charges invoiced to our customers.
