strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 45 leadership The role of the Board and its Committees Chart 18 Board Committees Executive Committees The Board Committees report to the Board.
Their responsibilities are: The Executive Committees report to the Chief Executive.
Their responsibilities are: The Board Audit Committee Group Executive London Retail Executive Committees The Board provides Assists the Board in Comprise senior executives across the Committee leadership to the Group.
It financial and risk oversight.
respective London Retail business units.
Responsible for Group sets strategy and oversees More detail page 51 Each Committee is responsible for operational operational matters implementation, ensuring performance and governance within its including strategy, only acceptable risks are business unit.
It also approves transactions financial planning, Remuneration taken.
It ensures that the up to a value of 10m.
succession planning, Committee right people and resources organisational Responsible for are in place to deliver development and Group Corporate Responsibility Committee determining the long-term value to wide policies.
Responsible for defining the Corporate remuneration for Executive shareholders and benefits Responsibility strategy, and linking it to Directors and senior to the wider community.
It monitors performance managers and overseeing against agreed targets.
For more information the Groups remuneration see the Corporate Responsibility report policy for all employees.
More detail page 58 Asset and Liability Committee Nominations Considers the impact of proposed sales, Committee purchases, developments and debt funding Considers the structure, arrangements upon the Groups balance size, composition and sheet and internal control metrics, over the succession needs for the short and medium term.
Also considers the Board and its Committees.
likely impact of macro economic changes on It also has oversight of the the business.
succession planning for senior managers.
More detail page 48 Investment Committee Responsible for approving significant transactions including acquisitions, disposals, developments and other transactions where they have a value of between 20m to 150m or are otherwise unusual.
Finance Committee Considers the Groups funding requirements and approves all significant new debt arrangements unless reserved to the Board.
Exchange Forum A business-wide representation group that recommends ideas and solutions for initiatives affecting employees.
Health and Safety Committees Three separate but linked Committees operate for London, Retail and Group responsible for overseeing the health and safety of operations and development.
Corporate Environment Group Responsible for setting the environmental agenda and monitoring environmental A Disclosure Committee is responsible for overseeing compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
New terms of reference were approved on 25 September 2013 and can be found at www.
com Reserved matters and delegation approving the introduction of an American Depositary The Board delegates matters to Board Committees.
It also To retain control of key decisions, the Board has identified Receipt programme: replacing the Scrip Dividend Scheme delegates day-to-day management to the Chief Executive, reserved matters that only it can approve.
The most with the Dividend Reinvestment Plan: and appointing two who in turn may delegate these within clearly defined detailed list of our commonly considered items falling within these reserved new Non-executive Directors.
This year, these included reserved matters, please see our website www.
com the speculative development of offices in New Ludgate, London EC4 and One New Street Square, London EC4: 46 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Board composition and roles The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six independent Non-executive Directors.
Their key responsibilities are summarised as: Board composition and roles Table 19 Chairman Dame Alison Carnwath Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
Setting the tone for the Company, ensuring effective links between the shareholders, the Board and management are strong Chief Executive Robert Noel Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board Chief Financial Officer Martin Greenslade Supports the Chief Executive in devising and implementing strategy and in relation to the financial and operational performance of the business Independent Non-executive Directors Kevin OByrne, Chris Bartram, Simon Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of the Palley, Stacey Rauch, Cressida Hogg, strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board Edward Bonham Carter Senior Independent Director Kevin OByrne Discusses any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or Chief Executive Board and Committee meetings and attendance Table 20 Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Director Board meetings meetings meetings meetings Dame Alison Carnwath 7 7 3 3 4 4 Robert Noel 7 7 Martin Greenslade 7 7 Richard Akers 7 7 1 David Rough 7 7 5 5 1 1 2 Sir Stuart Rose 4 5 1.
David Rough stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 31 May 2013.
Sir Stuart Rose stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2013 and was unable to attend the Board meeting on 7 November 2013.
Simon Palley was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 3 27 March 2014.
Cressida Hogg and Edward Bonham Carter were appointed to Stacey Rauch 7 7 5 5 the Board on 1 January 2014.
Cressida Hogg was appointed to the Audit Committee on 4 5 Cressida Hogg 2 2 1 1 26 March 2014.
Edward Bonham Carter was appointed to the Remuneration 4 6 Edward Bonham Carter 2 2 2 2 Committee on 10 March 2014.
Board gender split Chart 21 Executive Committee Chart 22 gender split Men 67% Men 67% Women 33% Women 33% Land Securities all employees Chart 23 Senior management Chart 24 1 gender split gender split Men 51% Men 72% Women 49% Women 28% 1.
Includes senior managers and directors of subsidiaries.
strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 47 Board activity Chart 25 Board meetings during the year AGM May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sept 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 Matters considered at all Board meetings Board meetings Seven principal Board meetings were held during the year, including a The Chief Executives report on strategic and business developments two day off-site strategy meeting.
At these meetings the key areas of The Chief Financial Officers report on the financial performance of the focus were: business and forecasts.
Considered throughout the year Half yearly and annual results: Draft results and presentations to analysts The Annual Report The six monthly valuation of the Groups portfolio by Knight Frank LLP and Jones Lang LaSalle.
Leadership and employees: Appointment of two new Non-executive Directors Executive Director remuneration Employee engagement survey People development and succession planning Thought leadership Local and national government Corporate responsibility.
Property Strategy Funding: The property cycle The Groups performance against its competitors Portfolio liquidity analysis and development exposure Acquisition disposal of properties in excess of 150m e. g. sale of Bankside 2 & 3, SE1 Approval of significant developments e. g. 1 New Street Square, London, EC4, 1 & 2 New Ludgate, London, EC4 The Groups debt funding arrangements The Groups budget, forecasts and key performance targets.
Risk Management The Groups risk register Internal controls Emerging key risks.
Stakeholders Environmental review Regular health and safety updates.
Corporate Governance Developments in Corporate Governance Board evaluation and effectiveness Chairmans evaluation led by the Senior Independent Director Board diversity policy review New human rights policy Legal and regulatory updates.
Shareholders Annual independent investor audit undertaken by Makinson Cowell Regular feedback from institutional shareholders.
